ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u1	1. Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 /German press 287/ - first reading I will ask that Madam Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová and rapporteur for the first reading of the State Budget Act, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, take their seats at the rapporteur's table. I would remind you that Mr Miroslav Kalousek was the first to apply with priority rights. In the debate, therefore, I would like to draw attention to the speakers: Vice-President Okamura and Vice-President Fiala. We will therefore proceed according to this order when we start the debate. Under the authority of the government, the State Budget Act, House press number 287, will state Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Before taking the floor - President of the Chamber of Deputies, by his decision number 17, ordered the draft law to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. The Committee on Budgets submitted a resolution delivered as House Press No 287/1. I shall now ask the Minister for her opening word. I'm hoping it'll be a proper peace of mind for the Secretary's performance. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you as Secretary of Finance with a law that embodies the fiscal policy of this government not only for 2019, but also because of the long-term effect of the measures included in it for years. [[The secretary quieted down and waited for the noise in the hall to go down.]] The government is fully aware that the maintenance and intensity of growth, the further growth of our economy depends not only on external factors but also on internal factors. In the domestic field, this means an adequate economic policy that respects the position of our economy in the economic cycle. This year's budget negotiations within the government were cultivated, factual, without unnecessary media firefights. The result is, I believe, a good draft state budget, which brings record investment in needed projects and more money for pensions, education and other areas where it will return to us in the future. [[9.40 hours]] Before I approach the various priorities of the draft state budget, I would like to point out that its proposal was drawn up in full compliance with the fiscal rule taking into account the medium-term budgetary objective arising from European legislation, according to which the level of the structural balance, i.e. the net balance on the influence of the economic cycle, should not be less than minus 1% of GDP. The structural balance in the Czech Republic amounts to a surplus plus 1,1 percent of GDP. The general government balance will reach a surplus plus 1,6% of GDP in 2018. For 2019 we predict a surplus of 1% of GDP. This state ranks the Czech Republic among three countries in the European Union with the highest surpluses of public finances. Government finance debt will also develop adequately. This year we expect debt to be at 33 percent of GDP, and next year it should fall below 32 percent of GDP. The Ministry of Finance continuously monitors macroeconomic forecasts and views of domestic and international institutions. Based on the comparison with these independent forecasts, I can clearly state that the macroeconomic framework of the draft State budget for 2019 is very close to consensus macroeconomic forecasts based on the views of all these workplaces and institutions. I would like to remind you that in the context of the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility No. 23/2017 The macroeconomic framework of the draft state budget was also evaluated for the first time by the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts, composed of independent macroeconomic experts and which assessed the macroeconomic forecast of the Ministry of Finance as realistic. So much for the macroeconomic framework in which state budget preparations were introduced. The basic data of the State Budget Act for 2019 are presented in the following form: state budget revenue 1465.3 billion. CZK, state budget expenditure 1505,3 billion. CZK, state budget deficit for 2019 is planned to amount to 40 billion, which is by 10 billion. CZK less than the deficit planned in the draft state budget for this year. Let me stress that 40 billion. presents 0,7 % of GDP. I would now like to mention the fundamental effects that are included in the revenue and expenditure of the State budget for 2019 compared to 2018. The revenue of the State budget for 2019 is increased by 150.8 billion in total compared to 2018. Crowns. The state budget's tax revenue for 2019 was increased by 47 billion. CZK 769 billion in total, social security contributions were increased by almost 60 billion. CZK 556 billion in total. Revenue from the budget of the European Union and the financial mechanisms shall be budgetaryed at a total amount of 94 billion. CZK, which represents an increase of almost 23 billion compared to this year. Within the framework of the transfers received, revenue from special accounts of the Ministry of Finance, former National Property Fund, is also expected for 2019 in the amount of 18 billion. In the chapter of the Operation of State Financial Assets, revenue from dividends of Prague Airport is newly budgeted in the amount of 3 billion. Crowns. The state budget expenditure is increased by 140.8 billion compared to 2018, with an increase in expenditure without the impact of the European Union budget and financial mechanisms amounting to 118.1 billion. Crowns. The funds will be used primarily in 2019 to strengthen the following expenditure areas of the state budget: increasing the average old-age pension by more than CZK 900 from 1 January 2019. For pensioners over 85 years of age, an increase of a percentage of the pension is approved by an additional CZK 1,000. The average old-age pension will thus amount to CZK 13,286 after the increase. Year-on-year pension spending is growing by a record 38 billion. nearly 473 billion. Crowns. Total capital expenditure for 2019 is budgeted at 122 billion, which is 31.9 billion. CZK more than in 2018. The annual increase in capital expenditure, which is covered by revenue from the EU budget, is by more than 10 billion, and for Czech capital expenditure, there is an increase of almost 22 billion. almost 80 billion. It is precisely increasing the state share of expenditure on investment that is one of the objectives of the current government, thus following the trend in which it has consistently increased its capital expenditure from national sources since 2014. The total expenditure of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure is budgeted at 84 billion, which is an annual increase of almost 15 billion. The national expenditure framework of the Fund amounts to almost 66 billion, an annual increase of 11.7 billion. Expenditure on research, development and innovation is included in the budget in a total volume that exceeds 42 billion. CZK, which represents an increase in expenditure by 1.5 billion compared to 2018. Expenditure on salaries and other payments for the work carried out by budgeted bodies of the State and the contribution organisations shall be budgeted in the amount of 210 billion for 2019, representing an increase of more than 23 billion. Against 2018. With regard to the increase in salaries, I would like to stress that we are fulfilling the obligation to increase the salaries of teachers by 15 per cent, to increase non-teaching by 10 per cent, and what is very fundamental is that we have achieved that we are not increasing across the board, that is, we are not continuing to open scissors, as was the case in the past, but it is actually being added to civil servants according to the amount of average salary they achieve. So if I select a few items, the most will be added to civilian employees at the state's attorney's office, about 15.9 percent on average, to civil employees at courts, to workers in culture, to employment offices, to the Czech Social Security Administration. On average, the other employees will be increased by about 7.4 percent, the rest but increased differentiated. At the same time, the budget addresses the problem of a high number of vacant posts in the public administration. For these places too, the resorts have received money historically for salaries, which were then used for so-called. the remuneration fund. This situation was dealt with in such a way that, at the end of the first quarter of 2018, the number of vacant posts in excess of 3% was reflected in the State budget of 2019 in the removal of salaries for these vacant posts, and if the vacancy was more than 5%, these places were crossed out. This led to a reduction of about 1,300 functional sites, the so-called dead souls, as is known, and total savings were made by actually assigning the money to the other places that remained within 3% after the occupation of those places, and to the total savings of 3.6 billion, which, of course, also contains the scratched places. The same procedure has also been carried out for employees paid from EU funds and financial mechanisms, which means a reduction of 160 additional seats. I can assure you that this is the first step, that I will continue to challenge my government colleagues and we will look at government level for further savings in existing capacities in our offices. Ladies and gentlemen, the state budget is called the law of the year, and I believe that the material presented will fully comply with this attribute. While respecting the binding parameters of the fiscal rule with the results of the Czech Republic, we record increases the standard of living of seniors, make record investments, increase expenditure on sport, science and research, actively manage the state's pay policy, valorise the contribution to government administration and, last but not least, strengthen the defence and security of our country. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to thank you for your attention and to ask this Chamber of Deputies to support the draft law on the State Budget for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u3	I thank the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová for her speech and I will ask the rapporteur of this press, the President of the Budget Committee, Miloslava Vostroa, to present her report. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u4	Mr President, members and members of the Government, colleagues, colleagues, have dealt with the draft budget, as has already been said, the Committee on Budgets, which adopted the motion for a resolution at its meeting at the 13th meeting on 10 October, which I will now introduce to you. Resolution of the Budget Committee of the 13th meeting of 10 October 2018 on the first reading of the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 - House printing 287. Following the opening words of the Minister of Finance, the report and the debate of the Committee on Budgets I. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 at first reading: "The Chamber of Deputies I. approves the basic data of the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 according to the Chamber of Press 287, which are: A. Amount of revenue fixed by amount 1 465 359 071 851 CZK, the amount of expenditure fixed by amount 1 505 359 071 851 CZK, the difference between income and expenditure, i.e. the balance, determined by the amount minus CZK 40,000,000. B. Method of settlement of the balance by these financing items (a) increasing the state of government bonds up to CZK 43 873 390 336; (b) increasing the amount of long-term loans received up to CZK 80 736 000; (c) change in state financial assets accounts by an increase of CZK 3 954 126 336. C. Financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of the regions, with the exception of the capital city of Prague, namely contributions of a total amount of CZK 1 317 332 700, D. Financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of municipalities, with the exception of the capital city of Prague, in total in individual regions, namely contributions of a total amount of 9 438 270 400 CZK, E. The financial relationship of the state budget to the budget of the capital city of Prague, namely the contribution of a total amount of CZK 1 075 508 600, F. The authorisation of the Minister of Finance in § 2 para. 1, 2 including the possibility to change the amount of total revenue, total expenditure and other indicators mentioned herein and to the extent indicated, the authorisation of the Ministry of Finance to proceed in determining the amount of the contribution to the performance of the state administration to each municipality and capital of Prague and the authorisation of the regional authorities to redistribute the amount of the contribution to the performance of the state administration during the calendar year pursuant to § 1 para. 10. II. Takes note that the draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 (a) it contains financial relations with the budget of the European Union, namely the expected revenue from the budget of the European Union of a total of CZK 92 213 119 805 and contributions to the budget of the European Union of a total of CZK 43 600 000 000, (b) determines the extent of the insurance capacity of the Export Guarantee and Insurance Company, a.s., amounting to CZK 188 000 000 000, (c) it contains grants to the listed chapters of the State budget, indicating their beneficiaries and indicating their amount, which are not subject to the scheme under the budgetary rules - Section 12, Annex No. 9 Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019; III. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). And if you will allow and there will be no objection, I would not read the commandment to individual committees by chapter, because it is long and you all have it in writing. If, of course, there is an objection, I shall read the full text of this motion for a resolution which has been discussed by the Committee on Budgets. If I jump to that part of the command, of course it says IV. In addition, it commands the medium-term outlook for the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2020 and 2021, the House Press 288, the Budget Committee and empowers the rapporteur to introduce you to the draft resolution. [[II.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u5	I thank the rapporteur for this press, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, and I am opening a general debate. In addition to duly registered in the order, I have the priority right of Mr Miroslav Kalousek, Tomio Okamura, Petr Fiala and Mr Ferjenčík to present the club's position under the Rules of Procedure. So they're logged in. First, then, in the debate, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. I also see Mr. Bělobrádek's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, honourable members of the government, honourable Members, honourable Members. Allow me, too, to wish the President, by name, a beautiful Christmas and a happy New Year, since he has already made me so happy with individual attention. And allow me to present the opinion of the TOP 09 MEP on the draft law on the State Budget. Responsible budgeting is not just about fulfilling my role next year. Responsible budgeting is mainly about setting trends so that the budget is based even in times less favourable, even when there will be no positive economic growth for the last five years. Logically, therefore, we should find in the budget drawn up in a responsible way the projections of changes in budgetary legislation that lead to (a) the reduction of mandatory, i.e. compulsory expenditure, to reduce quasi-mandatory expenditure, these are long-term commitments, especially in service and employment contracts, and we should also find there, here I am reporting to the President's words, a gradual increase in the ratio of investment expenditure to total expenditure. However, we will not find any of this in the budget. We will not find this because neither the government, nor the previous one, nor this one, has a systemically thought-out change in budgetary legislation, nor in the most pressing areas, which are mandatory insurance systems, whether it concerns health insurance or social insurance, although we have heard many promises here, as the Minister of Finance Babiš will bring in 2016 a draft pension reform in June, although the government has priorities in its programming declaration. We have not yet seen a substantive intention, so logically we will not find a projection of changes to this budgetary legislation in the budget. This is one fundamental objection to the draft state budget. It's a redistributive budget. It is an anti-reform budget, even because there we find an increase in mandatorial spending, not their decline. Now allow a few words on the revenue proposed. [[10.00 hours]] The revenue is based on the Ministry of Finance's macroeconomic forecast in July. I have no reason to question the professionalism of the relevant workplace, I have no reason to have mistrust of the indicators on which the revenues were calculated. I will also not propose a change in revenue in the motion for a resolution. But we will probably agree that compared to the last years when it was possible to hopefully assume, and it also happened that the real indicators of the next financial year were better than forecasted, because the forecasts were conservative and the economy showed greater dynamics, so given what is happening in the world, we probably cannot have such expectations next year and probably agree with the petitioners that the risks of fulfilling income are heading down rather than upward. This needs to be known, with some degree of optimism, whether the deficit could turn out better or worse. What I have to smile about is the statement in the text documentation on increasingly more effective and better tax collection thanks to effective measures against tax evasion. Why do I have to smile about it? Firstly, because the Ministry of Finance shows various figures in various documents, which attachs to those or those measures against tax evasion. But in particular, I look forward to the argument of the Government and the Ministry of Finance towards the European Commission when it justifies its efforts to introduce reverse charge. The Prime Minister solemnly announced a huge diplomatic success when the Member States approved the possibility of introducing a reverse charge, which the Prime Minister undoubtedly sought for many years. However, if we look at the conditions for this introduction, one of those conditions is a sufficient difference between the potential for tax collection and the actual tax collection. In other words, in order to introduce reverse charge, we must prove to the European Commission that our measures against tax evasion have been ineffective, and that is why we want to introduce reverse charge. So, on the one hand, the Ministry of Finance is impressing us with figures on the effectiveness of the measures against tax evasion, on the other hand, it will demonstrate to the European Commission the inefficiency of these measures and request permission for reverse charge. I will take the ticket to the front row and, of course, I will carefully compare the data submitted by the Government to the Chamber of Deputies and submitted to the European Commission when applying for reverse charge authorisation. And now for expenses. This year, compared to this year, the proposal envisages a relatively rocket increase in expenditure. He hasn't been like this in 15 years. It's 140.9 billion. CZK, which is, if we look at the long-term trend, a real increase where one would expect something extraordinary to happen. That an extraordinary environmental disaster will be eliminated or that defence costs will rise sharply due to a deterioration in the security situation. Or that we've decided on some one-time massive investment, God forbid it's the Odra-Labe-Dunaj channel. But we will find no such thing, and we will find that these funds go largely to consumption, especially to the salaries of civil servants, especially pensions - against which nothing, but not to the detriment of the future, and not to the detriment of the deficit, especially to increasing social benefits, will get there in individual trends. Let's go to investment expenses. The government's investment expenditure increases by 32 billion compared to this year, which looks very flattering, but only because it has invested even less reprehensibly the previous three years. And over here, let's look at long-term trends. Let me take 2012, the year I was the Minister of Finance as the default standard, and the year that we still had recession and economic crisis here, and then the government was under fire with criticism of how little it invests, how it reduces economic growth by small investment expenditures. Maybe there was something about the criticism, maybe we really should have tightened up our consumption and invested more. But how much did we invest in that year? We invested CZK 113.5 billion in 2012. This year, after five years of growth, the government still has 90 billion in the budget you approved last year. That means almost 24 billion. less than we have invested in times of crisis. In 2017, it was 81.7, i.e. at a time of growth, as the Supreme Audit Office also notes, the lowest investment in the last 12 years. Well, next year, the government solemnly says that it will invest as much as it has in the last 10 years, not and will invest 122.2 billion. Crowns. Which, ladies and gentlemen, is an entire 8.5 billion. more, which is a completely marginal number - 8.5 billion. more than we invested in 2012. In which the government has at its disposal, it plans expenditures of 1,505.4 billion. We had a total cost of 1 152.4 billion, so the government has at its disposal by 353 billion. more for next year. Once again, by 353 billion. more than the expenditure in 2012. And out of these 353 billion. gives for investment 8.5. This is indeed the priority of thunder! Similarly, it comes from spending on science and research. Of course, thanks to the 353 billion spending on science and research in absolute terms, it's growing slightly. But let's look at their ratio in relation to gross domestic product. If we reached almost one percent of GDP in crisis times in 2012 and 2013, in 2012 it was 0.96, in 2013 it was 0,97 spending on science and research towards GDP, and again we were being criticized. And I am addressing academic officials in the ranks of the ANO movement, because some of them were rectors at the time, and they very rightly criticized, to a large extent, our government, how little priority is spending on science and research, when we do not achieve one percent, we have 0.96, 0.97. So next year, in relation to GDP, you are proposing expenditure on science and research amounting to 0,75. Two tenths less than we did in times of crisis. And academic officials are happy! They feel that in the ranks of members of the YES, they feel that everything is perfectly okay. Suddenly, there's no criticism anywhere. What is it? That they are more members of YES than academic officials? I don't know. In any case, they have simply changed rhetoric in an incredible way over the past seven years. [[10.10 hours]] Let me get back to my investment expenses. When I told them in the absolute number, that is, the government is going to invest 122.2 billion. The koruna, which is only by 8.5 billion. more than we invested in 2012 to say this in terms of investment expenditure to total expenditure, because they should grow, this ratio should grow in responsible budgeting. There should be a little more investment in proportion to current consumption. That year 2012 was 9.9 %, investment expenditure against total expenditure. The next year, which the government is presenting and claims that investment is its priority, is 8.1% - almost 2 percent less than in a time of crisis when, according to the critics of the time, the Prime Minister Babiš, we invested less and cut the economy down. So where's the money? Science and research spending is not the priority. Investment spending is not the priority either. Let's see where they are. They are, of course, particularly on the salaries of civil servants. No offense when civil servants' salaries rise in times of growth. But we have to add to that the tens of thousands of civil servants that the government has been able to recruit in the last four years, and it assumes that they will increase their number next year and require 209 billion to pay civil servants. Crowns. Please make a nice comparison - in 2012 132,5 billion were paid to civil servants' salaries. Crowns. And once again, we were being criticized for how expensive the company is, which pays so much to its employees, and that every company would go bankrupt like this. It's been seven years, and we're gonna put 80 billion on civil servants. More. Ladies and gentlemen, let us reiterate the figure of how much investment will grow since 2012. That's going to grow by 8.5 billion. and the salaries per civil servant will increase by 80 billion. Now the company's doing well! Let's look at non-investment purchases. Once again, under that fire of criticism, as we did little to spare in times of crisis and too much to spend on non-investment purchases. We published in 2012 for non-investment purchases of 5,8 billion. The government wants to issue 78.2 billion for non-investment purchases next year. Crowns. This means again on non-investment purchases significantly more than it wants to spend on investment in 2012. Of course, what is positive in spending, and it is not the government's credit, it is a mandatorial expenditure, and it is due to the exceptional condition of the economy and very low unemployment, are unemployment benefits. The government only counts 7.3 billion for next year, while we had to issue significantly more in 2012 due to higher employment, but not only to higher unemployment, but I would point out that this is a mandatorial expense. [[no]] The government is also not saving on what non-investment transfers are made to business entities. If anyone wants to zoom in on that word, the most important amount is the subsidies to the agrifood complex. Well, there's really no saving up there. There it goes again much more than it was published in times of crisis. They probably need it much more than we need roads, highways, and investments in science and research. If we sum this up and take the crisis year 2012 as a base again, I repeat: the government has by 353 billion. More than the government had at its disposal in the 2012 crisis year. Of these 353 billion. gives poor 8.5 billion. for investment, but for social benefits already 30,6 billion, that means three times as much as for investment, although the social situation is improved thanks to much better employment, and the incredible 75, actually almost 80 billion, for the salaries of civil servants, 90 billion. then there will be higher pensions. Again, nothing against higher pensions, but we need to realise that we are setting these trends to be funded even when the crisis can come, may not come as big as after the fall of Lehman Brothers, but we need to make the economy more relaxed and our budgets so much pressure that they will trigger great social tensions, and unfortunately, it will always be the most weak and poorest in such a situation. And I dare say that the budget is potentially antisocial, because it sets trends that expose unnecessary risks to people who live without reserves, and we will have nothing to compensate for any shock. What can I say about the motion for a resolution? Those fundamentals cannot be fixed because they concern budgetary legislation, so even if the government had the reforms at its disposal and had them ready, like it doesn't, like it has no idea which way it wants to go, so before the laws are passed, it will run away for a year. And, of course, that can't be fixed. Something can be fixed. For example, it can be corrected that the budget will not be deficit-free. For a total amount of 1 beat. 505,4 billion. reduce spending by 40 billion. is a trivial task for the comptrollers for, I don't want to say ten minutes, but for one day. And I think we could make that request. If the government wanted, I would be happy to help it, but I respect that if it wanted, it has the right to save in its priorities and not the priorities that the opposition sees. But to cut expenses by 40 billion. in the total amount of expenditure 1 bil. 505,4 billion. It really isn't an impossible task. So that's one thing that can be fixed. The second thing that can be corrected is to achieve the ratio of investment expenditure to total expenditure at least to the level that we had in 2012. This means whether in 2012 the ratio was 9.9 and today it is 8.1, so we'll figure out that at least next year the government should invest not 122 billion, but at least 150 billion. [[10.20 hours]] This leads me to the motion for a resolution, which I would like to submit that the Chamber of Deputies is returning to the Government of the Czech Republic a draft law on the state budget with the following recommendation: 1. keep the revenue to the proposed amount; 2. reduce expenditure by 40 billion. CZK; 3. balance balanced; 4. the ratio of investment expenditure to total expenditure increased from the proposed 8,1 per cent at least to reach the ratio of the last year of the economic crisis 2012 by 9.9 per cent, i.e. The proposed amount of 122 billion. CZK investment expenditure increased to at least 150 billion. Kč. 20 days deadline. If the government and the government Members decide to accept this recommendation and this way the budget will be revised, we will support it at first reading and we are ready for constructive discussion at second and third reading. If it insists on the proposed parameters of the state budget, it is absolutely impossible that the TOP 09 MEP could support the draft State Budget Act at first and third reading, whatever amendments are adopted from reading the second. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u7	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. We will continue the debate with priority rights. Now Vice-President Tomio Okamura, Vice-President Petr Fiala will be ready. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the development of the economy west of us shows that perhaps the last year we are riding on a boom wave and the next few years will grow and the state's profits will start to decline. And it must be added that the decline is due to a slowdown both across the European Union and is foreseen by the World Bank for all developed economies around the world. She's not gonna be as good as this year for the next few years. This should be the first premise when drawing up the budget. A normal person who gets a bonus and knows it's gonna get worse next time, they're gonna put some crowns away. Strangely, the Czech state sees it differently. He spends everything, and he spends 40 billion on a quick instant spending. he'll lend it to you. That takes a lot of pink glasses or a straight stick. Putting together a budget with a 40-billion-dollar deficit is very irresponsible to execute, and it's the only thing that tells us - we're going to be in debt even more next summer. The reason for the government's proposed deficit is among others. continued increases in government spending, further draining of the state budget by political non-profits and continuing in an unaddressed social system that promotes inadaptable and facilitates trade in poverty. The SPD's movement will not support such a proposal and I propose, on behalf of the SPD, to return the budget to recast. As I have already mentioned, the SPD considers it alarming, for example. an increase in the cost of state and public administration. In the last five years, especially during the reign of the ANO movement, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL, the number of civil servants has increased by 30 thousand. persons, which increased the state budget by 20 billion. CZK a year. There were at least eight new state authorities. The SPD movement insists on substantial savings in the administration of the state. We consider it necessary to immediately stop the increase in the number of civil servants at ministries and other central government bodies. We then propose the funds thus saved to increase low pensions, support for working families with children and strengthen the social security of disabled citizens. A permanent increase in the number of civil and public servants creates an artificial shortage of labour and a false need for the import of labour from abroad. Of course, we will hear dozens of arguments from the government as to why this is necessary. Over the years, we've been hearing mantras about mandarin spending, which simply inflate the budget, and they say there's nothing we can do about it. This is absolute stupidity, which the Prime Minister in his campaigns on the subject - I quote - all stealing and the state is supposed to manage as a company - has itself thrown out. And we, in agreement with his electoral promises, which the government does not deliver, say that, of course, corrections can be made on both sides - spending and income. We have record low, basically zero unemployment in terms of people who can and want to work. On the contrary, we have a desperate shortage of people able to work well here. Why? These people were taken from the market by the government. So instead of giving these people a payout to the private sector, the state feeds them from the state budget. I understand it's politically advantageous, because that's how gangs feed directly dependent voters, but it's disadvantageous and expensive for the state, it's disadvantageous and expensive for businessmen and companies. In the last five years, as I have already said, the number of civil servants has increased by 30 thousand during the reign of ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL. persons, which increased the state budget by 20 billion. CZK a year. By introducing an EET instead of a flat-rate tax, as they have for example. in Germany, bans and bureaucracy we destroyed a few thousand businessmen and small companies - virtually. The government wiped them out - and they threw those who worked for a living into the state sector where we pay them from the state budget. It's not their fault. It's a targeted government policy. We are currently monitoring the audits of the Minister of Health in state hospitals, and we can already say that billions are escaping there. Nothing new, we know that for decades, but the members of the ČSSD and the ANO movement have ruled us here for the second term, and only now we have moved and obviously only because the state is after the neck of one group, with which he has ceased to be friends. Okay, but let's believe that in all the areas that the state finances, from transport to defense, we will find billions of flows out of friendly groups. After all, the publicly known findings of the Supreme Audit Office confirm these billion-dollar incomparability in the management of public money. I never thought I'd agree to one gentleman's statement. Yes, it's quite obvious that resources are. Foreign companies from the Czech Republic spend between 5 and 7 percent of GDP annually, not only directly within dividends and profits, but also in the form of tolerated costs artificially generated by parent companies abroad. Not just that. Although it is unbelievable, there are also profits abroad from legal payments, which are basically taxes, and should be received by the state. Two foreign insurance companies have a monopoly, more precisely a duopol to cover employer's liability for damage to work accidents or occupational diseases. This insurance is carried out contrary to the interests of the Czech Republic and European law by foreign private insurance companies, Austrian Kooperativa and today by Czech insurance company with Italian owners. It's just about 8 billion of them leaking out here. CZK a year. Similarly, we could talk about the law of the health insurance of foreigners, which collects private insurance companies, and profits flow out again, even though, in principle, all health insurance should be non-profit-making and all money should go to health care or at least to the state budget. We would find hundreds of such examples. The current one again needs a myth. Satellite tracking of a rogue route today knows GPS, which costs a few hundred with software. Why doesn't the myth run by the state, but the billion-dollar profits have essentially decided to donate to a commercial company? After all, we have natural monopolies that the state has always benefited from, and we know from history that the moment it started renting out to private individuals, it was always wrong and was robbed of both the state and the citizen or the subject. [[10.30 hours]] In order not to wrong the government, the biggest increase in spending counts the budget at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, by 41.4 billion. Kč. The amount follows essentially the planned deficit. But let's ask here: Does this mean that the government ultimately realisticly envisages a decline in the economy, a deterioration in the economic situation of citizens, and an increase in aid spending for the really needed? Of course, we will not know this from the budget, because help and spending can be different - for example, various formal trainings where profit is not socially weak, but a company that trains and prints unnecessary and illegible brochures or requalifies the unemployable so that they are still unemployable, and only extends the period of retraining to them when they receive higher benefits, which once again increases expenditure. As far as pensions are concerned, the SPD obviously supports the increase, that is clear. And even thanks to the votes of the SPD Members, pensions will be increased. Let's move on. Capital expenditure, i.e. investment, is planned by the Ministry of Finance to increase by 21 billion year on year next year. 78.7 billion. Crowns. Again, there is the question of what specific investments they will be. To essentially monopolistic so-called. large five construction companies that, instead of highways, build on takodroma waste deposits, such as Eurovia from Ostrava to the Polish border? Is that investment an endless building horror movie on D1? Of course, this is completely wrong when such investments do not work. When we read about the buildings to which hundreds of billions were in vain, I read how King Václav IV, for example, wrote investment contracts. The new mansion contract with the builder of the new castle near Kunratic clearly stated that the castle must stand within a year. If the supplier doesn't build it, he won't get a penny, but he'll pay the king a big fine. I don't even have to guess whether next year the king has already lived in the new castle, of course, and we can only ask whether to write a contract advantageous for the contracting authority, i.e. for the state, is a feudal advantage, or should it always be a matter of course for the state. Another incomprehensible state expenditure, and I think that is quite significant for the budget, for example, is the Act on the salaries of constitutional officials, when the budget is based on an increase in the salaries of constitutional officials. And as you know, last week the Committee on Budgets voted on my amendment, which I tabled on behalf of the SPD, in order to freeze the increase in the salaries of politicians until 2021, until the end of the parliamentary term, and none of the other parties supported this. The pirates and the ANO movement are proposing a 10 percent increase in the salaries of politicians, and the rest seems to be in line with the existing law, which increases even more. That is, the YES, Pirates, KDU-ČSL, STAN, ODS, KSČM, ČSSD actually propose in the budget to increase salaries for politicians, and that is what the budget counts for. But we're behind the SPD against, we want to freeze the rise, because we think they're enough. So even with this budget proposal in the state budget, which is presented by the YES movement with the support of all other political parties, we simply do not agree. It is not possible to increase the salaries of politicians when the average salary in the Czech Republic is around 30,000 and the average pension is around 12,000. And there is a need to pour pure wine here, why all other parties, apart from the SPD, promote an increase in the salaries of politicians, and it is also an unnecessary budget expenditure, and we, as the SPD, propose that we at least increase pensions for this saved money, including disability, or support for working families with children. To sum up, one does not have to study economics to see how politically friendly billionaires rip everything out of the state. And somewhere, like in the case of hospitals, the state seems to have started destroying parasites. But other ministries have been silent for years, see the IT contracts that President Zeman also spoke of in the amount of billions, which the Supreme Audit Office has already pointed out at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And instead of strangling thieves and parasites, the government strangles and chokes the last remnants of those who feed themselves and their fellow citizens. Instead of making 40 billion. Saved or taken from those who actually are contrary to all logic and justice, rather by 40 billion. He's gonna take the taxpayers. It reminds me of Mr. Kalousek, who accused a retired man of robbing the country when he said they ate their pensions. But I do not know why the government is doing the same in its essence, whose coalition parties have been distanced at least orally from Mr Kalousek's politician and his like for years. Of course, our SPD movement will prepare and have already prepared amendments to the budget, which we will, of course, submit, and will be voted on. Of course, the budget is a very complicated matter, so I will just repeat that we are proposing a resolution to return the budget to recast, because we all know that it is not in the strength of individual Members, or I would say the opposition MP's club, redo the budget and the budget chapters. It's just obvious, we have to say that here, and it needs experts and hundreds of officials at the Ministry to, of course, redo it so that the budget fits decent and proper people. So we have and will propose partial amendments, for example, in the field of defence, where we propose a reduction in expenditure on foreign military operations by 400 million. CZK, because we have never voted for sending Czech soldiers to Afghanistan, etc. Now even those who supported it this year are suddenly turning 180 degrees, which is indeed a tragic situation when former Foreign Minister Zaorálek still votes for the posting this year, and now he shows his amateurism and ignorance, and after a few months he changes his views. We did not vote from the beginning for these missions because we knew that this was aimed differently than in our opinion and in the interests of the Czech Republic, so our amendment - we will of course propose to reduce expenditure on foreign operations and move this amount and use it to ensure the activities and development of ground forces and the forces of combat support and combat security of our army for the defence of our territory, it must be a priority according to the SPD. We also have, for example, an amendment to be tabled on foreign policy. We want to move funds from the chapter of transformation cooperation, which is the support of so-called. political nonprofits - 63 mil. CZK, respectively. 63 miles this year. CZK, for next year, the government is proposing 80 million. Kč. You know that there is an increase for political non-profits, and we do not agree with public funding for political non-profits, so we propose that this money be shifted to strengthening development aid, such as the reconstruction of Syria, because it has something to do with helping us systematically stop this wave of illegal migration from Islamic countries. So, in some ways, instead of political non-profits, because we can only move within the budget, so it certainly seems like a better thing, though still not ideal. As far as the education budget is concerned, we will definitely propose two amendments there. We suggest we move 4 billion. CZK from inclusive education to support special education. We fundamentally disagree with this form of inclusion in education. We never voted for it, unlike the current government, the YES movement voted for it, and the ČSSD voted for it. We remember that from last term. That means they support inclusion in education. That means, we, just like he said here, by the way, even the president made it very correct, we just never supported inclusion. Now a lot of people who voted, they're already criticizing it. It's just all over the place. I'm always surprised by the uninformedness of other political parties in these fundamental matters. So we're just suggesting we cut the money by 4 billion. CZK and put it on special education. The Czech Republic was proud of this, it was admired by foreign countries, what great special education we have. And there is also an amendment that we want to increase the support of disabled fellow citizens at the expense of political non-profits. So once again we want, there will be another amendment, where we will reduce money to political nonprofits, we are promoting zero, of course, we do not want any public support. political nonprofits. We don't mind nonprofits taking care of old people, needy people, but political nonprofits don't bring anything to anyone. And we propose to regroup this money to support disabled fellow citizens, because today's disability pensions are literally unlivable. People live below the poverty line, and it's a shame that the state is giving money to people with no added value, it's political nonprofits, and people who are born disabled and can't help it, so the state totally doesn't give a shit. It's just that if we put it on a bowl of scales, I don't think there can be a discussion about who we're supposed to take care of. [[10.40 hours]] And I'm surprised the government sees it differently. I'm really impressed and surprised. Despite the claim that something will be done about financing political nonprofits, so of course the deed has escaped. Andrej Babiš stepped aside. Despite some proclamations we heard, he resigned from this purpose after a few days. Apparently, it was just empty marketing again, and we just see the money in the budget. And as I have pointed out here, we can even see somewhere that money is being raised for political nonprofits. So thank you for your attention, and that is in a nutshell the SPD's opinion on the state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u9	Hello, everyone. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u10	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members, in this opening speech for the Civic Democratic Party Club, I will try to include this draft state budget in broader political contexts, as it should also be in this law, which is often referred to - and the President has also applied here in his opening speech - as the most important law of the year. And it really is an important law. It is certainly not just some accounting exercise, but it is a law that expresses the priorities of the government and which actually suggests and determines the direction of the country, and either reflects our ambitions or does not reflect in it, which is precisely this case. I also have to say that I am sorry, and I think it is wrong that the Prime Minister is not present at the state budget. I understand all the reasons, I'm not suggesting any delay or anything like that. But I think that discussing the state budget and planning the Prime Minister's foreign trips should be aligned so that the Prime Minister can participate in the debate on the state budget, which is so natural and so clear that I am surprised to mention it here. Ladies and gentlemen, the Czech Republic is experiencing one of the most favourable periods in its modern history. People in the Czech Republic have never been as well as they are today. We are undoubtedly at the peak of long-term economic growth, a favourable period, and it is also clear, and this budget shows that the revenue of the state budget has never been as high as it was in these years, and the state has never managed with such resources as it will manage next year. And when we look at these figures, we have to say that those state budget reports should only be positive that the state budget should be full of positive reports or even more positive reports. But if we look at the budget, we'll find that's not the case. I'll mention the favorable news first. The state budget shows that some of the pensioners are undoubtedly happy next year, because pensions will go up. They rejoice with the civil servants. True, some are happier, some are less, but on average their income will increase by 8 percent. By the way, there's a lot more to 8 percent than private-sector employees who have to make money on all the government spending here. But they don't really count on wage growth, because the government doesn't count on tax cuts, the government doesn't count on reductions in taxes, the government doesn't count on improving the conditions for businessmen or entrepreneurs, and it doesn't even try to do that in any way. And while I'm on the good news, I'll also mention that parents of children and students who save on fare will also rejoice, and thus save the richest parents as those in need. However, with this statement, the favourable reports have exhausted and will no longer be more favourable. This is what the "guest " in a country that is experiencing the longest period of economic growth looks like. In a country that collects record-high taxes and taxes. This is what the left-wing government feast looks like, the government says, for everyone. This is, this budget, the top figure that the government can do in times of record economic growth. But, as we all know, the seasons favorable, the seasons economically favorable, alternate periods of stagnation, alternate periods of economic crisis. And maybe we're past the first positive part of that cycle, or we're at the top, and we should prepare for periods that won't be so favorable. And that is not what this budget is doing. When I said the favorable news was over, and I listed those who would profit from the draft state budget, I would hear objections that they would improve others. That maybe he'll improve his high school and college. But I have to remind you here that their share of GDP spending is actually falling. So the upgrade is very relative. The same situation is in the area of investments bragged about by the Prime Minister. When we look at the investments, in 2015, capital expenditure accounted for 13.5% of the state budget expenditure. See what percentage the government is planning for next year. Only 8 per cent of capital expenditure. Expenditure on research, development and innovation. In 2015 - notice that I am not comparing this with the right-wing governments, and even in a time of economic crisis, these shares would be much more favourable here than they are now. In 2015, expenditure on research, development and innovation accounted for 0.9 percent of GDP. Next year, the government expects a share of 0.8% of GDP. This is not growth, it is not necessary to invest in research and innovation, something that will benefit the Czech Republic in the future and increase our competitiveness. And while we're at these numbers and I look at the defense, I can say that the promises that the government is making here, they're just moving back to the future. From 1.11 percent of GDP this year, the government is planning an increase to 1.19 percent of GDP next year. Where is the growth at 2 per cent to achieve this? Or even the promised 1.4 percent? They're still out of sight. But defense spending is extremely important to our country. And of course, it is absolutely not true that this government is a government for all, as it tries to talk the Prime Minister out of its left-to-left maneuver. You will read in the budget what I have already said that private wages will not increase because tax burdens will not decrease. And you will also see in the budget that the salaries of civil servants will rise again. So it's not the government for everyone. Even the budget isn't prepared to benefit everyone from economic growth. But all these are not the main problems of this budget. It is not even the deficit that I think is - which has been mentioned several times and which I think is incomprehensible and inexplicable. But the main problem with this budget is really something else. It is not in individualities, it is not in individual items, but the real problem lies in the lack of ambition, in the absence of a plan, in the absence of understandable useful policies. So there are no visions, plans, and their implementation. I started my performance by saying that we are in an extremely favourable situation and that we are experiencing an unusually favourable period. And these are the perfect times for us to do things that don't work at home that we know are a problem to move them. To improve the condition of the Czech Republic. To avoid killing the ambitions of the Czech Republic. To prepare for the next competitiveness, to create conditions for this. And that should be behind those state budget numbers. That's where investments should be directed. The contents should also be hidden behind them. And the content could be as follows. If we increase spending on education, for example, what do we expect from this, where the money goes, what do we want to achieve? These ambitions should be on behalf of the state budget. I'm going to give you some data here from the World Economic Forum's analyses, which you probably won't want to question, and you ask yourself two questions. First, whether the position we have in comparing the World Economic Forum really corresponds to the choices our Republic has. And the second question, no less important, please ask yourself. Which of these figures will improve this state budget? Where are the prerequisites for us to improve so that we can bounce away from this condition so that we gradually move up? [[10.50 hours]] According to World Economic Forum data, the Czech Republic is currently on the 31st place in the competitiveness ranking. And if we look at what this number is composed of in detail, we find that we are particularly low in the 50th place sub-category of the institution and infrastructure in 49th place. And in the category of institution, when we look at it in detail, the Czech Republic is dragging the burden of government regulation, here we are on 119th place, and the efficiency and clarity of regulatory procedures, where we are on the shameful 112th place. Next, let's look at the other figures. Effectiveness of public administration in the enforcement of legal disputes - 94th place. In the category of infrastructure, sub-category travel quality - 74. place. And from other subgroups, the inflexibility of the Labour Code - 108th place, and the overall tax burden of entrepreneurs - 110th place in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not numbers that correspond to the possibilities and ambitions of the Czech Republic. Those are the numbers we should be doing something with. And those are the numbers that this state budget should do, but it doesn't. There is no reason today to collect from people and entrepreneurs unreasonablely high taxes. It would be much better if people could invest their money. And they would invest them in further growth, technological innovations, preparations for technological changes that await the entire society. If the government had acted this rationally, the economy would have moved more, it would have contributed more to economic growth. It would also increase the competitiveness of successful Czech companies in the international environment. Ladies and gentlemen, this is supposed to be our goal, this is supposed to be our vision. That's how our ancestors understood it. We now claim the 100th anniversary of the founding of a separate Czechoslovakia. It was his founders who had this ambition, and there is no reason for us not to see it that way. It is clear that we will not change some things from day to day, we cannot change them from day to day, but if we do not start at least, there will be a tendency for them to get worse. I don't have to convince you that everything that has to do with bureaucracy, such as bureaucracy, tends to get worse. However, we can solve some problems quickly and solve them effectively. And bureaucracy, regulation, slowness of state and public administration is a problem considered by the vast majority of Czech citizens. And it can be dealt with. It just takes courage to have a clear political goal. Neither the courage nor the clear political objective of this government shows this in this draft budget. Government regulation is no longer just a subject of opposition to the Civil Democratic Party, it is one of the biggest embarrassments of the Czech Republic. And if we are to be one of the ten best countries in the world, and I hope that I am not alone or my colleagues are not alone, who we have this ambition, where we belong in the first Republic, then we have to move some things along, and we have to do the cleaning at home first. It is not normal that, at a time of economic growth, at a time of such economic boom, the greatest budget revenues in history, almost zero unemployment, people are being harassed by regulation in a way that some autocracy in Central Asia does. It's a shame. We could move on, we could change it, but unfortunately, this state budget doesn't suggest anything like that. Ladies and gentlemen, I could continue for a long time, but I will mention only two areas that are relevant in this regard. Thirty-first place in the Czech Republic for the level of education. It wouldn't seem so bad. But it is bad because the quality of education in the Czech Republic is slowly decreasing in international comparisons. The decline is not steep, I admit, but our ambition should be to grow, because educated people are our future, it is actually our most valuable capital. When you look at the data in more detail, two facts are particularly problematic: the proportion of exceptional students, talented students, and vice versa, the proportion of under-average students is increasing. And it's up to us to set up the education system to help, give room to the finest and at the same time not to suppress children with a weaker social background. Likewise, and this is one of the biggest problems of our education, we need to find a way to reward not only teachers as teachers, how to reward quality teachers more, and how to reward young teachers too, in order to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession and motivate people to want to be teachers. And the second, last topic, is a subject that is personally close, precious to the Prime Minister, and that is a policy for a better country. The point of agrarian policy is not, we all know it now, to feed people, to produce enough food, but, among other things, and perhaps today, in European countries, it is about preserving the nature of the landscape, the full life in the countryside, which we must have, which we should have and which we should not give up. But from this goal, too, we are moving away from the government's measures rather than moving closer to it. Our agriculture is the most concentrated in the EU. The average size of the farm is some 133 ha, in the EU it is 16 ha. And one of the consequences of such concentration of Czech agriculture is the inefficient direction of subsidies and support from the EU's common agricultural policy into large groups that do not meet the fundamental objective. They do not meet either the social or the landscape or the ecological dimension. Those scissors between us and other countries are still expanding here, and they're expanding in our favor. In Austria, for example, 60 per cent of direct payments to small farmers, 85 per cent of payments to large farms. This will not be easy to change, but this too is an opportunity to start talking about what politics means for a better country. That it doesn't just support the big ones, but that it means helping those young and starting farmers. That this may mean introducing ceilings on the size of direct payments recipients and saving money to invest in local projects. Political energy must be devoted to this, and public pressure must be created here. And, of course, then also, and that's why I'm talking about it here, setting the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to show you, on several examples and political contexts, what this budget is in, as presented by Prime Minister Babiš's government, is bad, in which it does not correspond to economic growth, in which it does not correspond to the Czech Republic's possibilities and in which it literally kills the ambitions that the Czech Republic should have in these years. This budget does not reflect the needs of the Czech Republic, this budget does not bring the Czech Republic closer to the group of the most advanced countries. This budget does not reflect the possibilities of economic growth, it does not increase the competitiveness of the Czech Republic as a whole today or in the future, and it does not create new opportunities for a better life for citizens of the Czech Republic. Therefore, the ODS cannot support this budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u11	Thank you. The next one will perform according to... Mr Ferjenčík, with the opinion of the Pirates Club, handed over the record. [[Member Ferjenčík has taken up a position at the speaker's desk.]] I'm sorry. I'm really sorry, really, but that's where she disappeared from. The point is, isn't it? Such a factual remark, Mr Volný, I apologize, she was deleted and now there she is again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u12	Thank you, Mr President, colleagues, colleagues. I apologize very much to my colleague Ferjenčík, but I wanted to respond directly to my previous speaker, President Fiala. I didn't think I'd have to talk to you about this, I don't think any of our clubs would be able to spend any time discussing it, but the moment the untruths were told here, I have to get off. [[11.00 hours]] It is only at first that I am positive that President Fiala mentioned such an infamous tunnel, when subsidies to agriculture were abused by so-called landscape maintenance. You all know this as the concept of peasants from Wenceslas, when tens of billions of crowns were paid to maintain and mulch pastures and mountain meadows, which I think was the highlight of how to exploit agricultural subsidies. But I have one thing to say to what my colleague here said. He said that we have been experiencing the longest boom since the emergence of the modern history of the Czech Republic. I would like to point out that this is not true, because from 1999 to 2008, there was a boom where the results were achieved as 6.4 in 2000, as 6.5 in 2005, that is the performance of the economy and GDP, and yet the loss and debt of almost 500 billion was recorded. Crowns. The fact that she wasn't in the ODS government is true or right, but it was at the time of the coalition contract, and that's actually the same thing. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u13	Thank you. Unfortunately, for Mr Ferjenčík, a factual point - President Stanjura, he also wants to respond to the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u14	Mr Volný used a strong expression that it was a lie, and then he said, 'You did it, you didn't do it, but you did it.' That's a lie. The biggest deficits at the time of economic growth, at that time, was the Minister of Finance who, my fellow Member Free through Mr President? Bohuslav Sobotka, the finance minister with whom you were in government for four years, and with social democracy you are still in government. If you criticize the irresponsible economy shown by the Czech Social Democratic Party, that's okay, I don't buy it. I'm just surprised you've chosen them twice as a coalition partner, and with them, you draw up and approve those budgets. If we look because I'm still 14 minutes away, the budget doesn't have any ambition. It's really a left-wing budget. A comic savings of 10 billion. By increasing my income, and I call it saving. Of the 150 billion that are going to be higher revenue this year, you're going to spend 140 billion. and you say that you are able to draw up a balanced budget. How much higher would the income have to be? Shall I repeat the statement by Andrej Babiš that the budget will be balanced in 2017? A year later, he said in 2018. It's 2019 now. If you look at the budget projections for 2020 and 2021, we still don't see the zero there. If you've decided not to perform, it's a shame. I assumed that government MPs would defend and factually argue against the criticism of the opposition. That sounds like a meaningful debate over the budget to me. Don't listen graciously to the opposition that's holding up here, and then press the yes button and raise your hand. That is the only way we can come to this and confront opinions on specific proposals in the budget. We're supposed to be talking about basic parameters here today, but with a 150-billion-dollar increase in income to present a deficit budget, it's a disgrace and no sudden managerial failure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u15	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Now a point of fact, Mrs Němcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. Excuse me, colleagues who were ready to perform properly. It is indeed only a factual point concerning the participation of the members of the government in this debate of the state budget at first reading. President Fiala as one of the representatives of the political parties who want to say their essential words here, a fundamental position on this country's fundamental law, will not receive the attention of the members of the government or his fellow political parties, because the government probably does not care about this law. If there is to be a conflict over any area, how is it that there are no ministerial ministers present to defend in this entry debate the bases on which they were based in drawing up this budget? This shows how this law is taken seriously by the government. The Prime Minister could synchronize his program so that he could be here, and he should be and must be present on such a crucial matter. His team shows the support they have given to this basic law by participating in it. I find this unacceptable in relation to the Chamber of Deputies. I think that our respect, our Members, would be to demand full participation from the members of the government, because otherwise, to discuss the budget without those who have drawn it up, without those who are to defend it, without those who are to explain it to us, there is no fundamental meaning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u17	Thank you. There seems to be no further factual point, so Mr Ferjenčík will speak and give the opinion of the pirate party's MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister promised on the budget committee that he would prepare some charts and pictures, so I inspired myself. I will begin with the classic statement by Andrej Babiš from 2011: Deficit is loss. If someone put together a business plan with a loss, I'd fire him. This is probably a good example of how Andrej Babiš's approach to drawing up the budget has changed since he became a politician and, in fact, stopped seeking balanced state management. I would also follow up on the response to President Zeman, who here was distracted by the management art of the Secretary of Finance. Unfortunately, I don't see it as optimistic. There's a picture I showed at the press conference yesterday. The only reason this deficit reduction happened was because revenue, and unfortunately only estimated revenues, the state budget increased by 33.7 billion. CZK and on the basis of income higher by 33.7 billion. The government has reduced the planned deficit by billions of ten. That means 2/3 kept it for higher spending, 1.3 of its revenue reduced the deficit. It seems quite little to me, given that already in the June version of the budget, as prepared by the Ministry of Finance, there was a very significant increase in revenues, and given that the economic situation and, above all, the predictions are becoming so optimistic. After all, the assessment of revenue estimates is changing from realistic to slightly optimistic. If the economic situation deteriorates and, for example, the numbers from Germany indicate that next year may not be as pink as last year or this year, the deficit may be higher. Further to the general economic situation, the budget. We still have a huge tax on work that is higher than what is needed in Sweden. Sweden, which is often referred to as an example of a socialist economy with progressive taxation, etc., has lower labor taxation than the Czech Republic and the government does nothing, although income is growing extremely hard. We think that the taxation of work in the Czech Republic needs to be reduced. On the contrary, it is now growing through the rise in wages, and the discount on the taxpayer leads more people to move to a higher level within the framework of the construction of labour taxation. Real taxation of labour percentage in the Czech Republic has increased in recent years. [[11.10 hours]] Further one number, which is slightly positive but in the overall context only very slightly. [[shows the graph]] It is the share of capital expenditure versus the share of operating expenditure. The share increased slightly from 6.6 percent this year to 8.1 percent next year. However, as Kalousek said, for example, the share is still extremely low in relation to the past, and our concern is that the capital expenditure will not be realized. When the Supreme Audit Office evaluated the State Final Account for last year, it stated that only 50 percent of the planned investments were made. It was the number, the share of capital expenditure in the plan and the implementation was slightly higher thanks to transfers from past years and the unused compensations. Nevertheless, it was 50 per cent of the planned ones and only 80 per cent of the aggregate in the result. So, unfortunately, the government's writing a significantly higher box for capital spending does not guarantee that they will actually happen. Moreover, the Minister of Finance's remarks from yesterday's meeting suggest that the government is probably already counting ahead that the investments will not be realized, as the Minister promised yesterday that the budget will eventually be balanced. And those balanced budgets were largely due to the fact that the planned investments did not make it, so then the money was not spent. But that's bad news. I think Mr. Babiš, if he ever put together a business plan to build a new factory, and at the end of the day, the director would come in charge of it, with the fact that he didn't build the factory, but he had the money left, he probably wouldn't get any credit or reward. Another fundamental problem of the Czech economy is that it does not address systematically digitalisation at all. The overall level of digitalisation of the economy lags behind the digitalisation rate in the Czech Republic against most EU countries. However, the digitization of the state administration is far worse. There is a huge disproportion between the performance of the Czech economy and the performance of the state administration. And in that budget, this problem is not addressed at all, and we see no government plan to systematically improve this position. After all, the state of digitization in the Czech public administration illustrates that it is not possible to make a normal presentation at the Chamber of Deputies plenary, you have to show some papers here, which is completely absurd. Even the Prague Council can allow representatives to make a presentation in plenary. I think that in 2018, this should be the basis for some rational debate. Then the last figure in relation to the budget, which is alarming, is the development of the profit drain from the Czech Republic. [[shows plenary paper with other overviews]] And if we can't solve this problem in the long run and start closing the scissors a little bit, then we're just not gonna be able to balance the state's management in the long run ever. We may be able to balance budgets sometime in the boom times, but in times of crisis, we will simply have such huge deficits that we will never really be able to balance the state's management throughout the economic cycle. In 2017, according to the Statistical Office, the profit flow to another country from the Czech Republic was CZK 310 billion, which was the highest figure since 2000, I assume the highest figure in the history of the Czech Republic. The problem is getting worse. While the share of gross national product against gross national income in 2000 was 98,2 %, it was 93,8 % in 2017. [[shows plenary other graphs]] The difference is the capital drain. [[shows plenary further paper with statistical data]] We have already reached the European Union - almost only Ireland is worse off, but worse in quotation marks. Because Ireland is the typical tax haven within the European Union that has stretched out all those corporations that provide services for the whole European Union, such as Facebook, Google, Apple and other companies. So Ireland can afford it, given that they actually collect taxes from these companies from all over the European Union, which significantly distorts the statistics. But our economy isn't structurally built like this. Indeed, without the government starting to systematically work on how to prevent this, or how to simply look for new incomes, or how to support segments of the economy that will have a larger share of taxes in the Czech Republic in the future and a smaller share in abroad, so the really long-term economic situation of public finances will not be possible to fix. We're just going to slap each other on the shoulder in boom times like today, that we can afford 8 percent of the investment, and in times of crisis, we're actually going to hit a dead end. So these are basic data on the economic situation and the state budget. Finally, let me present the proposal for the Pirate Club, how to proceed with this first reading with the budget. We generally support the balanced state budget. However, at the same time, we are aware of the current political situation. We are also concerned that even if the government adds, for example, the 30 billion that Mr Kalousek wants in capital spending, it will be a purely virtual number, because the buildings are not prepared. Really, the fact that we're going to write the number 30 billion plus somewhere doesn't mean we're going to build a highway worth 30 billion or anything like that. So we have proposed a compromise that we are willing to support at first reading, and this - the whole proposal: The Chamber of Deputies recommends to the government to make the following changes in the basic data of the draft State Budget Act for 2019: the revenue to be maintained at the current level, there is simply a prediction where we have quite a lot of confidence in the analytical team at the Ministry of Finance, although it must be said that it is slightly optimistic. Furthermore, (b) we propose to reduce expenditure by CZK 23.7 billion, maintain the current levels of capital expenditure in absolute terms, maintain the planned levels of increase in training resources, maintain the planned levels of increase in transport infrastructure, maintain the planned levels of increase in low-income employees' salaries, thinks the State. Secondly, the Chamber of Deputies hereby sets a deadline for the submission of a new bill on the state budget, namely 20 days. That number of $23.7 billion didn't fall from a month, it's the number I presented. This is the difference between the budget expenditure proposed in June of this year and August of this year. We just don't think that the needs of the state have increased by 23.7 billion over the past few months. As we analyzed the budget, the 23.7 billion can be found there. We have analyzed about 10 billion savings, which we will definitely propose as amendments, and we are now examining another 12 billion in more detail, consulting with ministries. But we're just convinced that the savings can be found without any major cuts. It's just a matter of political will. Furthermore, a few comments on the additional points of the resolution. [[11.20 hours]] We want to keep capital spending as it is. We believe that the increase is absolutely necessary, and we appeal to the government to do its utmost to actually implement the expenditure. We want to maintain an increase in the funding for education, a chapter that makes us, say, less critical of the budget than we would have been otherwise. This rapid increase in education is our fundamental priority and we are very pleased that this priority has been reflected in the budget. We see this as an investment in the future. We are glad that this is what the government is proposing. Even in some chapters, we see room for even higher increases, although we are already quite satisfied with the number. We want to maintain the wage growth of the worst-paid civil servants. Typical example - court writers are college-educated workers who take very low money compared to their qualifications, and there are a number of poorly paid professions in the state. We think it was reasonable for the government to differentiate wage increases by base, and that the low-income people need to add more than those who already have decent salaries today. So this is what our resolution reflects, and I will be happy if the government takes it as its own. It is our, say, realistic positive alternative to the proposed deficit of 40 billion. We think that this is purely a question of political will, and we do not think that it is necessary to rely on the state budget to vote on the KSČM. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u19	I thank you, and your performance has raised two factual points. First Mr Stanjura, then Mr Volný. First, Mr Stanjura, then Mr Volný. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u20	For my colleague Ferjenčík. I agree that there is no need for communist votes, but they are the easiest for the government. Let us remember the marketing trick after the government approved the draft budget and the Prime Minister said at the press conference: not only with the communists, we will discuss the budget with all the clubs in the Chamber of Deputies. I don't know how to deal with other clubs. No one's ever talked to us about this. And so it's still, reality and marketing, a big difference between what's true and what's not. But I volunteered for another reason. I'd like to say, nice government torso, you're making fun of us. I don't take the view that the state budget is just a bill. The state budget is the most important bill to the budget (?But the government likes to say it, the Prime Minister likes to say it, he's here to support the President, and there's a torso sitting here. Let's look at the expenses of 1.5 trillion. Where do we have the Ministry of Defence - 67 billion to discuss the budget of his chapter with the Minister? Well, when are we going to debate her? Where is he? He's not here. Minister for Education - 206 billion expenditure. Where is he? He's not here. I know the Prime Minister said on TV this week or last week - don't take Took Took seriously. But I take it seriously. Where is the Minister of Transport - no matter how much expenditure he has, 72.5 billion. - where is it so we can have a normal rational debate with him about state budget spending? Three members of the government are present. The Prime Minister is on a foreign trip, okay, I think it's inappropriate, it could be aligned, but I understand. But the fact that there are no other ministers here to defend their chapters is a mockery. I propose that we suspend the House of Deputies' meeting in the presence of at least two thirds of the members of the government. I respect the Prime Minister's apology.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u21	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr... [[Announcement from the O.R.: Procedural design!]] Oh, so I'm sorry, we're going to vote on a procedural proposal immediately. I'm registering the application for withdrawal, so, of course, I'll oblige and call my colleagues from the lobby, including the ministers. I'm gonna ask you to re-enlist with your I.D. cards. [[Short pause, Members return to the Chamber.]] I think the number of votes is settled. We will vote on President Stanjura's procedural proposal to interrupt until the presence of two thirds of the members of the government. It's a voteable proposal. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 47, 147 Members signed in, for 62, versus 69. This proposal was not adopted. However, the number of ministers has increased. So we will continue to discuss this. With a factual remark, Mr Volný, then I have Mr Zaorálek's factual comment. Is that a deal, or was that just...? Well, I'm gonna delete you, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond by your means to my colleague Ferjenčík. He's not here right now, but he's a bit of a contradiction. He seeks billions and, on the other hand, praises how he joined education and other segments. If he is looking for 30 billion, I would also advise him, but he has to be able to stand up here and say that he refuses to raise salaries for our pedagogical and non-teaching workers by 30 billion that he refuses to raise pensions of 37 billion. our seniors, and in that morning, this budget is going to be 20 billion. in surplus. Let him find the courage and come here and tell the entire nation that these two items are nonsense, that he doesn't agree with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u23	Thank you. A point of fact, President Kalousek, then President Stanjura. And I'm gonna ask for some peace in the O.R. I didn't want to interrupt in the context of a factual remark, but I will ask for peace, especially in the left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor. You know, on that vote on the presence of ministers, allow the memory of a memorial. Prime Minister Václav Klaus had no better memory than Prime Minister Babiš did. But when the budget was being discussed, all the ministers were sitting here, and they weren't allowed to move because he always said to them: when we want people to give us 35 percent of what they produce, we just have to be here, and we have to be able to react. Some premieres have followed this tradition. The current government shows nothing but contempt not only for the House, but for those people who will pay their expenses. And I think it should be recorded and that you should behave accordingly, ladies and gentlemen of the government. On Mr Ferjenčík's comment, who doubted that the government could even invest the 122 billion proposed, the less it would invest at least 150 of those proposed by me, so I mean - so what? Well, if they don't invest it, they won't spend it, and in that case, the budget will end up in surplus. The motion for my resolution says either invest it or save it, but you must not eat it. And I don't think that's a bad suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u25	Thank you. Mr Stanjura, President, has now made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u26	I do not do this often, but I want to stand up for my fellow Members on the pirate side of Mr Ferjenčík, because the factual point of Mr Volný was completely out of order. All you have to do is say three numbers. The increase in revenue is by 150 billion. 150 billion. The increase in pensions that we all voted for makes it 38 billion. There is no need to fight what we voted for. [[11.30 hours]] The increase in expenditure on education is 25, or let's say 26 billion, to round it up. That's $64 billion. And from the 150 simple calculations, you'll find that you still have 86 billion left. So spending cuts can be completely fine, whether by 23.4 billion, or by 40 billion, without reaching for an increase in pensions, without reaching for an increase in expenditure in the field of education. I know Mr. Volný knows that too. He was just pretending that the only way to reduce the deficit was to cut income increases or cut spending increases in education. It's not true. Read it yourself in the explanatory report or in the budget. Maybe some of you haven't read it, maybe you'd believe it. It's not like that. Another 86 billion revenue is available to the government, and out of that, it was able to spend only 10. Only 10! And 76,6 the government spends away from pensions and out of spending on education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u27	Thank you. End of point of fact. In that case, Mr Bělobrádek is with priority right. [[Reaction in the right side of the hall.]] Prime Minister, sorry. Both. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I can clearly say for KDU-ČSL that we will support the return of the draft state budget to recast. I am convinced that the vast majority of comments have been made here, so that I should not abuse the right of priority, so I and my colleagues will certainly still be speaking in the debate afterwards. Anyway, what's very important - I'd like to commend the government a little. For four years, I've been fighting with the Treasury Secretary about the fact that science and research aren't incomprehensible and that none of this is falling apart. So I have to say, even though there's a reduction against medium-term prospects, it's not a complete destruction. I think that the budget should have been much more ambitious in this regard and should have been much more focused in this area in order to be able to promote competitiveness in the coming years. It means, it's not complete destruction, it's not sweeping up the whole job that's been done. And I want to appreciate that. On the other hand, there are a lot of items that, of course, are not filled enough. We will speak on this one step at a time. However, the basic message is clear. This budget, according to the KDU-ČSL, is not well-designed and we will therefore encourage it to be recovered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u29	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u30	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I would just briefly add to some of the issues relating to the State budget for 2019. If we want to address a rational debate to which we have heard several calls from our colleagues, the rational debate is a debate that is based on facts and on the state budget for adopted and valid laws that show how the state budget can be drawn up. When we talk about taxing work, of course we can talk about it, but not in the State Budget Act, because what taxes on personal income are, we know what changes we have made to the presentation of the State Budget Act, too. And the debate, forgive me for the legal expression de lege ferenda, i.e. about the next law, is not a rational debate on the state budget of 2019, because we did not accept any change that would affect the revenue of the state budget. So this is an irrational debate because it could not be such a state budget, and the prospect of revenue, unless we have adopted another amendment to the Income Tax Act or to corporate tax, cannot be conducted. As far as I'm concerned, I'm sorry to turn aside, about the question of the presence of members of the government, I also have a long experience as a colleague of Kalousek, and I note that I have had the worst experience with the presence of the government under Petr Nečas. That was a real disaster. As far as the state budget itself is concerned, yes, I can have a number of reservations about the state budget for 2019 and I can criticise it from a number of points of view. But in any case, when I look at him with the eyes that see the possible steps in 2019, we must realise that the state budget strengthens the purchasing demand of citizens of the Czech Republic, the domestic economy. And we know that we will not be able to balance the relationship between prices, European prices in the Czech Republic and Czech wage developments, which is neglected for a long time. And I think of eight years of non-existent valorisation, for example, of minimum wages, of adding CZK 30 or 40 a month to the pensioners, more of the disgraceful position held by the previous governments. And it is obvious that even 30 percent of the Czech economy, which works for domestic consumption, needs to be strengthened in some way. That is why I believe that it has a pro-growth character at least in this area, that is to say, equalizing the wage development and development in social benefits. As far as investments are concerned, and I must say that I have to agree with the President of the Republic that this is quite an essential matter. And I wanted to point out, and I think that the KSČM here has pointed out quite often enough that there is a need for a huge gross error, a fall in those expenses just by subsidizing the solar barons, and it is the fault of the government of Mirek Topolánek, Martin Bursík and his melody boys, who have put this loss in the expense or in the expense of the state. Yes, we managed to cut the expenses in two steps, but we're still not where we were supposed to be. I don't understand why the government didn't do this because the taxation of solar barons was the subject of many debates. A lot of debate. And it's obvious that the burnout, if you want to give a relatively diplomatic word, is the subsidies to those who produce the so-called. green energy, we had to deal with it. And in my opinion, there would be no increase in the tax burden for citizens of the Czech Republic. It wouldn't be about raising taxes. Surely, solar barons would write about it and order articles in various newspapers and magazines and radios and televisions and, for their billions of dollars, they would certainly give something. But who would believe them? Who would believe them? This is not an increase in the tax burden on citizens of the Czech Republic, because the greatest burden is the price of energy that every citizen of the Czech Republic must pay. And I kind of blame the government for that. But in order not to have an irrational debate again, I must say that this cannot be included in the state budget because we have not accepted any such change, and therefore I cannot say on the revenue side that this is possible. As far as the state budget itself is concerned, I believe it is based on the possibilities that give the current state of the economy, which is, I would say, beyond the edge of the cycle that led to the increase or increased economic performance in the Czech Republic. [[11.40 hours]] As far as other things are concerned, it must be noted that the state budget needs that change, which will at least lead to the start of the next housing construction, so that we are not in a situation where rent growth is not ensured. She liberalized housing policy, and it did not stop the establishment of the State Housing Development Fund, but in particular its not using it to those individual instruments and restrictions on those banking products that do not lead to such massive housing construction that would need to stop the growth of rents. And here I see at least a certain shift, a positive shift where construction is planned, and that there will be resources and that the State Housing Development Fund will start working again. And I think that even the individual products available to the Ministry of Regional Development can help us stop the adverse trend first, so that we can at least turn that trend into a positive trend in 2020. And there will certainly be a much higher investment in the housing construction. That's probably something I think is crucial in investment policy. What's next? I am glad that there are also amounts in the financial amounts for state budget expenditure that can lead to a change in water management policy, forestry management, agriculture in general, and that, therefore, the decline in individual commodities and the start-up of changes can also be stopped. I'm afraid it won't work, for example. for pork, etc., where it will probably still be necessary to deal with the internal breakdown of the chapters, because those steps that we have had here in at least the last eight years have led to the fact that we have been losing capacity rather than building it. And it will certainly be important that the expenditure of the state budget leads to the necessary change. As far as investment in transport infrastructure is concerned, I can only say that there can be no lasting satisfaction here. We still don't have the tool to have a clear and understandable income for us, virtually. an amount of income that would permanently mean the possibility of regions investing in roads II. and III. classes and, where appropriate, the possibility of municipalities. In my opinion, the distribution of shared taxes is still ahead of us, and I think it will be one of the tasks of the first half of next year for us, the Chamber of Deputies, to deal with it. It doesn't mean it's not in the state budget. It is, however, in a way that does not guarantee the long-term planning, which, in such an investment construction, such as road construction or road repair, the construction of railway corridors in order to ensure lasting security. Allow me to make one final remark. I would like to make it clear that, for second and third readings, there will be a need to find enough support in the various committees for each chapter to be managed so that the draft state budget and its implementation will be close to the plan itself, because it is not possible to do the state budget in the long term so that it will be something that will create reserves that will not be implemented in any way. I think that, as far as part of the rational debate of those criticizing the state budget is concerned, the question is so called. unused expenditure, which will be dealt with by the Ministry of Finance, but also by other ministries, since so-called. the unused expenditure, in the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office, is really threatened by a completely different fall if it starts to take place. I will not discuss individual parts of the state budget, which will be dealt with by fellow Members from our parliamentary club. And I would like to say that from the way we adopted or did not adopt the laws at 30. 9. in this Chamber of Deputies, I see enough reasons for the first reading of the state budget to support the state budget. I cannot support the return of the bill to recast, given that we would merely waste time debating whether or not we have to pay the debts that the previous governments have made. Because, for example, the debate on debt services will, of course, await us in the various bodies of the Chamber of Deputies, particularly in the Committee on Budget and in the Committee on Control. I am convinced that the state budget will have a positive effect on the development of the Czech economy and will help to maintain its growth rate so that we can also have sustainable growth limits, growth in pensions, investment and economic development as a whole for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u31	Thank you, too. The following are two factual points. First of all, Mr Kupka, then Mrs Němcová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u32	Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will only allow myself to defend myself through the President against the inaccurate, false solar extempor of my previous speaker. Because it is not true that the solar baron boom, as has been said, is caused by the civil democrats' governments. On the contrary, it was Vladimír Špidla's government, which first committed to supporting solar power in 2001. Subsequently, the real boom brought about an amendment to the law, an amendment by Mrs Iva Šedivá from social democracy. On the contrary, in 2009 and 2010, they were representatives of civil democrats who tried to change the conditions further in order to prevent the further boom of solar barons and the draining of money in this direction. You certainly do, through Mr President, know this. And I don't know why you're putting such inaccurate, misleading facts in your performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u33	Thank you. Another factual point by Mrs Němcová, then Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm coming in on the same thing. Just to clarify what was going on. In 2005, I therefore remind the Vice-President of the House, through the President, in 2005, the Chamber of Deputies tabled an amendment which reduced the possibility of the Energy Regulatory Office to reduce the purchase price by 5% each year, Mrs Iva Šedivá, then the representative of the Czech Social Democratic Party. And this proposal was approved and criticized as one of the factors of the financially unmanaged boom of photovoltaics in the Czech Republic. So I think that if the Vice-President's speech here is necessary to politically attack the ranks of his right-wing opponents, that is, the Civil Democratic Party, it would be necessary to quote everything that has to do with the matter, what the course of the matter was, and not to close your eyes and point to someone else, because, fortunately, these things can be tracked well enough. The President, today's Vice-President of the House of Filip, was also then Vice-President of the House and I assume that he knows these things but does not mention them purposefully.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u35	Thank you. Vice-President Filip will respond with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u36	Thank you. Yes, I know how it came to be limited by the possibility of our Energy Regulatory Authority. That's right. But the determination of the price for energy buyout was already a matter of the reign of Mirek Topolánek and Martin Bursík. So let's find out when the price was set here. And it is not true that this government has somehow dealt with the regulation. It was handled by the government in transition, after the fall of Topolánkův's government. And I think it was the Minister of Industry and Trade, I think at the time it was Vladimír Tošovský, who first touched on the fact that he was reducing it. The whole time Mirek Topolánek and Martin Bursík insisted that nothing could be done about it. And it was Martin Bursík who then contributed to the price of the purchase which was, forgive me, more than 100 percent higher than the price of the purchase from solar power plants in the neighbouring Federal Republic of Germany. That was the mess we made here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u37	Thank you. I'll read the apologies. He apologizes on 24. 10. between 12.45 and 13.45 for family reasons, Mr Špičák. Minister Tomáš Petříček apologizes from 11 o'clock to the end of the day for work reasons. We have 11.52 and it is the first duly applied Member without prior rights, Mrs Kovářová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u38	Yes, thank you for marking me as a Member, not a Member. Ladies and gentlemen, many words about the state budget, many figures have already been said here and many club opinions. So let me also give you the opinion of the Mayor's and Independent Club. The Czech Republic is now economically at its peak, we are economically successful. Yet this government brings us a budget to owe our republic 40 billion. Crowns. Yes, 40 billion. CZK at a time of significant economic growth. And what does common sense say about that? I believe that common sense, in the current economic situation, is directly calling for a balanced budget, not for the debt that this government is promoting. The fatality of this budgetary policy is not about how to damage our republic today, but about how it will damage us tomorrow. Tomorrow, when economic growth slows, when the economy fails, as it is today when the next crisis comes. History tells us worse times will come. By law, what goes up must also go down once. And this is true twice in the economy. We will all pay for today's mistakes and, above all, future generations. No, Prime Minister Babiš, our children do not want to live in an indebted country, and they will not even shine their eyes to paraphrase one of your older electoral slogans. The deficit budget as such may not be a bad instrument, but it depends on the situation, reasons and motives that lead to its use. In our case, its use is inexcusable. The problems of this 40-billion-dollar deficit lie mainly on how this money is to be spent. Now I'm mainly talking about increasing the mandatorial spending of the budget, which unfortunately will remain there. They will be a burden, and they are already representing it today, when the mandatorial expenditures have a 55-percent share. It is clear that this is also happening at the expense of investment. In their case, I see two major problems in the proposal. Firstly, the volume of investment in the state budget is low, this has been said many times, and is only increasing slowly. Secondly, drawing on investment is an even worse problem than its volume. The Prime Minister hasn't forgotten to brag about how much money has been found, saved or left in individual ministries in the past year. Unfortunately, these statements are largely due to the fact that the ministries are unable to invest investment money effectively. Let me remind you of the two quotations by the current Prime Minister Babiš, which I mentioned yesterday at the press conference. One is from 2014. Prime Minister Babiš, I think he was already Minister of Finance, said: "I am convinced that we will have a balanced budget in 2017." In 2011, he criticised the establishment of a deficit budget with the fact that the deficit was a loss: "If someone had drawn up a business plan with a loss, I would have thrown it out." And the same person, the current prime minister, is presenting us with a state budget with a deficit of 40 billion. and planned by the government in 2020 and 2021. There are two conclusions from the two quotations. Firstly, the words about a balanced state budget are just an empty slap in the water. And the second quote shows that the Prime Minister, too, has found that the state cannot be run as a company. I think that the deficit could be accepted if it was driven by a really significant acceleration of investment. On the one hand, we have an investment plan, but on the other hand, we have the amount of investment that is actually made. We are afraid that the low readiness of new investment projects will lead to an increase in these realised investments not being strong enough to justify the deficit. As far as the ability to make an investment is concerned, the reality is following. There is an absolute shortage of capacity in the construction sector on the market. Today we have money, but we don't have people. That is why it is necessary to make reserves for worse times when people will be, but there will be no money. Let us remember the crisis that was years ago. More than 50 thousand have left the construction industry. people and the heat are hard to return to this sector. [[12.00 hours]] I think the government should make it clear that the amount of investment will be held, if any. increase not only when the economy is going well, but also when the economy is not going well. The Minister mentioned here how much national investment is increased - by 22 billion. That's nice, but let's also remember how much construction costs have increased. Today, a third of the price is being put at stake than in previous years, so the increase in investment is not as impressive as it is presented. It must also be said that global economic growth is a win for the government. Unfortunately, the government spends this win and continues to be in debt. He will have to borrow others for this deficit and deficits. And what will the situation look like when the economy slows down? Interest will increase, and then we will find that debt in good times is truly irresponsible. I am sorry because the government, with its draft state budget, does not think about the future, our children and grandchildren, and therefore it is necessary to label this draft state budget in two words, and that is forgetting the future. There was also talk of savings. And they can be found. Last year we are in the state budget, respectively. His proposal was found 15 billion. to raise teachers' salaries. At the time, the government MPs did not support our proposal. Colleagues also talked about non-investment expenses. Prime Minister Babiš promised how much money he would save on the so-called central purchases. And how did that turn out? The only central purchase that was made was a draft of the paper, which was also mentioned many times here. However, the price of this competing paper was higher than what others bought the Ministry's paper for. These are just the little things we should be talking about, and they are definitely looking for savings in higher amounts. With regard to the proposal that has already fallen twice, and the proposal for a re-evaluation, we will support this proposal. We are also aware that it is likely that it will not pass, and that is why we will be promoting our priorities by means of amendments. Let me mention some of them. Investment in education comes first. The second place is the capacity of nursery and primary schools and its increase, because we know from the regions that projects with building permits in terms of kindergarten schools are prepared in the amount of 4 billion. Kč. Furthermore, we will promote an increase in funds for the restoration of cultural monuments, the 40 thousand. cultural monuments. The government is definitely not thinking about these cultural monuments. Our next priority is increasing the resources for local communication, measures against drought. And last but not least, I would like to mention a little something that will be an amendment that will reduce the contribution of the Czech Freedom Warriors Union, which has given a commemorative medal to Communist Member Ondráček, which we think, at a time when we remember 100 years since the beginning of the Czech Republic, brings extraordinary attention. Among other things, we will propose an accompanying resolution, which will call on the government to propose a balanced and responsible state budget for 2020 and 2021, so that we do not have to label other budgets with those words of oblivion of the future, but, on the contrary, so that we can identify the draft state budget as responsible and those who think of the future, and that the words about the balanced state budget made by Prime Minister Babiš are not merely an empty slap in the water. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u39	Thank you, ma'am. With a factual point, Mrs Němcová is registered. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my point of fact, I am returning to the exchange of views between myself and Vice-President Filip. It is necessary to add to this everything that happened when the vote was in 2005 at the beginning of the increase in the power of solar barons. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia voted in favour of this proposal, Mrs Iva Šedivá from the Czech Social Democratic Party, for this proposal in the then House and did not vote in favour of the Civil Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u41	Thank you. Mr Dolejš is entered into the debate, followed by Mr Hrnčíř. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor. Have a lovely noon, everyone. And let me say, perhaps relatively briefly, on today's subject, in about four points, the substance of why our club has decided what it has decided. My first point is, of course, to the proposal of colleagues from the right wall, who have agreed to see the shame and mist of the future in the draft state budget for next year. It is a question of whether it is really so dramatic that we not only lose time, it is at worst manageable within that period, but whether the motivation for these adjustments and this relatively abstract assignment would lead to better endings, a more fruitful form of state budget. And I am very embarrassed here for the simple reason that I believe that the structure of the budget in the basic figures and in the order of ten billion, I am stressing ten billion, it is difficult to cope with this, so that it does not affect a certain link that the budget must obviously have, and which primarily, from our political point of view, finances some of the social priorities that we have promised not only to the voters, I dare say that government parties, and which are undoubtedly all of them, are all reporting to them, but if we had made those interventions in the state budget, then, of course, the pressure to fail would have increased dramatically. And it's not just about salaries and pensions. The second point is that the State Budget Act as a sovereign policy is, of course, a kind of penetration of economically possible and an intersection of political vectors. It is a political compromise that must meet both fiscal sustainability and social reconciliation. That is why it is important that, as a compromise to this law - they do not consider it their victory - they have also expressed trade unions that call for fulfillment of the basic social promises. [[12.10 hours]] In this context, I would try to deal, certainly not exhaustively, with the thesis that was repeated especially before the elections, and that in the summer we had a leftist, or some said semi-bolshevik, government. I dare say that the government is essentially central, which is pushed by the right-wing opposition, and let's say that the right-wing has a majority in the House, which is partly based on left-handed political stability. Nothing more, nothing less. And all those considerations that we should reduce the state and which the left is trying to defend not just successfully, but at least in part that the state should not follow as a company, because the state also provides certain important social functions, we are interested in the welfare state, by the way, so they document it. That is, in terms of motivation for change and whether we should go back to some budget of cutbacks, where blunt cuts do not lead to happy endings, and we do not have thought-out cuts on the table to conclude this problem in a nutshell. The second block of my notes points to hearing again from the right wall about budget indulgence and eating. So there are a few facts in the explanatory memorandum to the budget. The hardworking colleagues of the world have seen a lot of budgets here, so they have undoubtedly and certainly noticed it, and from some political shame these facts are not exactly highlighted, so I will stress them. One. The budgets in recent years are part of the trend of declining deficits. A hundred were planned there in 2015, 70, 60, 50 and now 40. This is a downward trend, and I think that the trend is better in real life, which, of course, deserves a separate consideration, but let's be glad it's better. The situation, if it were worse, would, of course, be far, far more dramatic. Another fact, and it is again the statistical fact that public finances as a whole for certain reasons, which are not quite somewhat commendable and optimistic, but it is simply a fact, are in surplus. The surplus is therefore mainly provided by a section of the territorial administration, because there is money left. These are sometimes the less commendable reasons, because at some point it was not pumped, so of course it was left. But it's a fact. And the third fact is that, with the trend of deficit reduction, we are getting into a real situation, so that the debt-to-GDP ratio is falling. The nominal debt fell only one short period, and part of it was affected by a certain accounting operation, but the fact is that debt, although rising, does not grow as much as GDP, and therefore the share falls. So in the early years of Prime Minister Sobotka's government, he was somewhere around 41 percent, and now we're about 30 percent. Not many countries in the EU have this share of debt in GDP. So these are real numbers to avoid an unnecessary dramatic tone. And I would go back to the problem of plan and reality. Of course, everyone will think about what the plan is when it is not repeatedly implemented. So this is a matter that must undoubtedly be considered, and it should not have systemic reasons, nor should there be some kind of cleverness of well-hidden pillows, which, of course, are being spent happier within the framework of budgetary measures. But, of course, it had different reasons. Historically, it was a change in the state debt management situation: on the one hand, we started to operate the Treasury, and on the other hand, the situation on the capital markets changed, i.e. the price of money, and this led to the fact that somehow the money was left and could be used. Europe's money had a big impact on kicking the economy, but then we were not always able to make use of our Czech investment in terms of undrawn expenditure, because those projects were simply not ready. Well, there's money left, and so, of course, the plan has shifted into optically nicer positions. And, of course, the development of income can also have an impact. If the economy grows faster, it also affects the fact that we have added to salaries, because wages work both as support for growth in terms of profitable demand, but also as a result of the corresponding wage contributions, and they will naturally flow into the state budget. These are all factors that need to be perceived, but it should also be said that these factors do not necessarily have to take place in the next period. So it's kind of easy to say: we're going to cut the deficit, or we're going back to numbers - I think that's what my fellow pirate party said - from June when the macroeconomic forecast was a little different, and the difference between income and expenditure wasn't shifted to the accumulation of some reserves, but it was used in spending into the state budget, so it's not that easy. The last comment on this block, and the fact that - I think it was the SPD colleagues, President Okamura wondered whether any numbers should be completely different, and I would say, with an emotional tone, he assessed that money should not be given to those who are, say, less decent, from batch collectors to politicians. But let us realize that the budget needs to be planned on the basis of laws, and that is why it is there. If you insist that the benefit collectors are rude, I do not think so, and it is reflected in legislation, then of course the amount will be planned differently. Third block of notes. As regards the ratio between consumption and investment. It sounded like a lot of times today, Mr. President started it at the beginning. Of course, it is true that this budget has strengthened the area of consumption more significantly, but it also needs to be added that this nominal growth is actually politically catching up and saturating some political pressure that was there in times of growth, when we were somewhere at five percent of GDP, so far as citizens have not received such an adequate share, and that this is what we are catching up on this year, when it is still going, maybe it is the last year that it is still going, so I think there is nothing wrong, the more so that consumer demand is also a pro-growth factor, even if we can compare different multipliers for each budget expenditure. Once again, this is not such a drama, it can be demonstrated by the fact that the share of mandatorial expenditures decreases slightly. It's growing nominally, yes, that's true, of course, but it's going slightly down and down to 54.8 percent somewhere. Now to the investment impulse. Of course, government investment is an important factor in modernization and growth, but it is also true that 2017 was such a year of lack of consumption and that we really should be aware that a dramatic and rapidly increased volume of capital expenditure does not really need to be able to be able to office and spend the state. And if I think Mr. Kalousek here said, "So what? Well, at least we're left with it, and we're left with the accumulated reserves for bad times. The problem is, and we are back to the motivation that reserves for some of the structural problems that await us, such as pension reform, so don't be surprised at certain concerns. One attempt at pension reform was carried out in 2012, so the joy was not great. So I think that focusing on the quality of investment, choosing those investment actions that are beneficial both from the point of view of the multiplier and from the point of view of ensuring the functioning of the economy, I am thinking, above all, of the infrastructure aspect, so we have to do this, but not in such a hurray style as is proposed here. One last point, actually, I'm done with that. Indeed, the budget for 2019 is in an extraordinary situation, in an extraordinary political context, but let us say that if we want to prepare some major changes and if this government is to rule for the rest of the parliamentary term, this is how it will have to be, then we must prepare ourselves for some of the structural challenges facing us. These are not only pension issues that I have been talking about, but also the effects on the economy in terms of digitalisation, the question of greater competitiveness in the field of innovation. [[12.20 hours]] And, of course, the infrastructure isn't just about highways, it's not just about computers, it's about housing. And that there is a dramatic situation on the real estate market and that there is an absurd number of people in the Czech Republic who live and want to live in rental housing, so I think that we are all really aware of this, but unfortunately it is not taken into account in the relevant financial framework that would be created for this policy. So not jump cuts, but thoughtful cuts, which will be based on some policies that are not yet on the table. I think that the task is precisely for the budget periods of 2020 and 2021. There will undoubtedly be a debate about this when the medium-term budgetary outlook, which, from my point of view, has been prepared relatively inertialy, arrives on our table after the state budget. Of course, it fulfills formally what it has to fill, but it is these problems that are the big X and the big X that we should talk about in the political situations that are now being set up here by last year's elections. I will end with a simple conclusion, which our President and Vice-President of the House has already said here. So we will certainly not support the return to recast. That the recommendation is helpful to the first reading in the sense that it is a recommendation only at first reading and that, despite all the things I have said here, we are aware that there is still a window to rationalise the structure of the budget in a reasonable order. So not a few tens of billions, in a reasonable order, to rationalise the structure of this budget. We're open to that. That's why I say it the way I say it. Because if we were to lift the flag "train goes," the will, let's say, to discuss these structural changes would be significantly smaller. And that kind of brings us to the point that - I don't know if I can say I'm pleased, but at least I've acknowledged that colleagues from the pirate party are thinking about rationalising these things. So they caught a little hives from having to vote with the KSČM here sometime. I don't know if it's a relevant danger. I am willing to vote on any rational amendment to the budget. And there may be a pirát flag on it, I don't mind. And in that sense, I think we can move these things towards that third reading. If there is a political will. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In fact, Mr Munzar and Mr Ferjenčík will respond to your speeches. Mr. Munzar. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I will allow you to respond to a colleague, Mr Dolejš, who, at the beginning of his remarks on the budget, said that - I hope to interpret this as accurately as possible - that the government is pushed by the right-wing opposition to the right, and is just as quick and indistinguishably leaning on the left. I wish you were right, colleague. But the reality is clearly different. This government is rejecting our right-wing proposals as on the treadmill. And as for the fleeting support that it appears from your speech through Mr President that you happened to be passing by, it is the fact that it was the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia that gave confidence to this government. It is also a fact that the members of the ANO movement and the KSČM MEPs agree most in this parliamentary term in all the specific votes that we have had here. So that's the reality. I understand why you said that, because the YES movement sucks your voices with its left-popular policy. That was seen in all the last elections. We understand, but unfortunately, that's the reality. And don't try to say - although I wish I did - that this pretentious House is right-wing. Unfortunately, that is not the case, and I would very much like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík will speak, after which Mr Dolejš will comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to respond to two previous speakers. One time for a fellow Volný who's giving it back to me, and unfortunately, he's not here this time, which is a little unfortunate. Anyway, I'm gonna need some time to trace the difference table to his note. So where'd you get the savings? Just look at the proposals from the government, how they changed from August to June. And these changes are neither in the area of pensions nor in the field of education. The change in education is CZK 25 million, but the increase in expenditure in the Ministry of Agriculture, which certainly has nothing to do with the fact that agricultural subsidies are the Prime Minister's priority, is CZK 4 billion. So there's got to be one idea where you could save something. Similarly, expenditure on the General Treasury has increased by 4.5 billion, which may be a hidden budget reserve for the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u47	Thank you. Mr Dolejš and his factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u48	Make sure things aren't settled. We could lead this controversy for a long time, but I don't want to delay it. We didn't go around asking if we'd support the government. You know how we've been sitting here for six months and we've had some meetings. Everyone acted in some way and we acted in a way that included seven priorities in the tolerance patent. Four of them are about to start filling up, three of them we don't know. And, of course, it is up to us to enforce the tolerance patent with due hardness or respond to the development of political conditions. But if you think this government is left-wing because a few priorities will be met by the Communists? Look at the tax policy, where we disagreed, where our priority is greater capital taxation. Our priority is tax progression. Our priority in this area is a number of things that you remember from past parliamentary periods. And that's just the compromise when we understood that the train wasn't coming, but that the voters, who - yes, I admit, are currently some of them in the YES movement - were simply welcomed to raise their salaries, to welcome their retirement. And if there was such a will on your part, we might be dealing with you. But on your part, we've only seen the cuts, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u49	With the factual remark of Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to respond to Mrs Kovářová's contribution, which is currently not present in the House, and I know that we voted here an hour ago about the absence of ministers. And when I look into the right spectrum of the House, I don't see a single member of the Mayors, I don't see a single Member there for the TOP 09. I think we are discussing an important law here, which is a state law, and so if someone here is criticizing that ministers are not here, I think that Members should be here. When they are present, I will perform once more so that I can respond to Mrs Kovářová's contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u51	We will now return to the general debate, i.e. those who are duly enrolled. It is Mr Hrnčíř's turn, but he has apologized to me that he may have to leave for a while, so his application to the debate will shift to the end of those who are currently logged in. I'm asking Mrs Nevludová to step forward. It will be followed by Mr Podal. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government-approved deficit of 40 billion denies the basic macroeconomic principles that the state budget deficit admits only at the time of the economic downturn. But the domestic economy has been maintaining a high rate of growth for a long time. The Czech Republic is undoubtedly doing well. Unemployment almost does not exist, industry and the business sector prosper, GDP is growing, even though the state does not invest very much. In June 2014, the current Prime Minister and the former Finance Minister declared that they would balance the revenue and expenditure of the state budget within three years. We see that this claim has not yet been fulfilled and will not be, according to the medium-term outlook. The warning of economists that in good economic times, the government should be restrained in increasing mandatorial spending so that it does not have to be indebted in any worse years, apparently no one listens. The fiscal policy of the government worsens the sustainability of the mandatorial expenditures of overgrown unaddressed social systems, the financial reserves that the state could use for investment in the event of a crisis, virtually do not exist. [[12.30 hours]] The government should be more concerned with incentives to invest faster in more modern technologies leading to rapid growth in labour productivity. There's no digitalization and robotics. The development of digitization takes place more slowly in the Czech Republic than in most EU countries. To the extent of digitization, we are around 18th place among the EU countries. We do not have enough skilled labour in the manufacturing sectors. The economy comes across its production limits and slows down. Current growth will not last forever. Economists also draw attention to the fact that the structural problems of the Czech economy are not yet eliminated, the financing of the Czech health care, which shows a high degree of sensitivity to fluctuations in the economic cycle, and in the long run, the stable sustainability of public funding is not ensured. We don't have pension reform. It is not possible to invest effectively in infrastructure projects. Since 2000, the road and motorway network has grown by only 0.6 %, so the traffic intensity on all types of roads has increased significantly. Limited self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic in traditional agricultural products brings first producers and processors under strong pressure from importers of agricultural and food products from EU countries, which cannot be competed with the price due to subsidy aid. There is no investment in the promotion of science, research and innovation. There is also little investment in waste management, where instruments to contribute to the increase in recycling are put into practice very slowly. Inefficient use of European Structural and Investment Funds allocated to programmes and projects in the programming period 2014 to 2020 compared to the previous period is still manifest. This government is good at calculating that in the time of several elections it is not politically reasonable to tighten the taps, which is reflected in the election results. The submitted draft state budget with the planned deficit is very irresponsible. The state must behave like a proper caretaker because it is all of us's money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u53	Thank you. Mrs Kovářová will respond with a factual point. Before he comes to the speaker's desk, I'll introduce you to an apology. Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar apologizes today from 14.30 pm to the end of the day due to urgent work duties within the Ministry of Defence department. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u54	Allow me to respond to the Governor, my pre-speaker. Madam Governor, through the President, I must respond to yours, so I do not want to say awkward complaints. But I've been waiting for my performance from 9:00 to 11:52. And I'm sure you'll understand that after my performance there was a need, and after three hours of waiting, there was a need for a sanitary break. So much justification for my absence. So please keep it next time. And as far as voting is concerned, I just have to brag that I have a slightly larger turnout than you do. And thirdly, it would be good if you learned to know Members of the Mayors and Independents, or some Members sat here and sat down. As I have done, according to the so-called animal animal animal, I have become acquainted with who is named, who is from what club. So many of my references. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u55	Thank you. Mr Podal will now appear, Mr Baxa will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u56	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Vice-President, excuse me, honourable Members, allow me to make my point as Chairman of the Forestry Sub-Committee. I cannot agree with the amount of resources to support forestry, which is proposed in the amount of CZK 622 937 - CZK 937 175, to be exact. This is a reduction since 2018 (?) 20 million crowns. These are the exact numbers. I can tell you that I get text messages every day, phone calls from forest experts who blame me as chairman of the forestry subcommittee and to all of us who work there, that this amount is not enough for the situation that is in our woods. Here, I'll show you the cute little bug that'll soon replace our spruce woods. [[shows image]] We had the opportunity to see it several times in northern and southern Moravia, unfortunately it is spreading throughout the Czech Republic. A lot of organizations, such as SVOL, are expressing this, where, of course, they also respond to the proposal for a new forest law. It says here: The proposed amendment to the Forest Law is totally unacceptable to the Association of Owners of Municipal and Private Forests. If the State wants to ban something across the board, it should also clearly state how it will compensate the owners for the damage suffered. The prohibition of deliberate extraction is justified on property that has been affected by the calamity and where it is necessary to carry out the production on a random basis. However, the obligation for forest owners to liquidate the calamity is already enshrined in the present text of the Forest Act. Each responsible owner shall do so in his own interest. All I want to show is that there are a lot of forest farmers, organizations and all of them are asking for more money for the cruststorm we see daily in the media. I had the opportunity to see her twice, once by air, and once by car, where I drove about 600 kilometers. I can tell you, it's a picture of misery and suffering, the shins. And now trouble is, everyone increases prices, the prices of harvesters, the prices of forest workers, they reject wood in sawmills. So, where are the poor forest owners supposed to make the money for recovery? Where are they going to get the money, when, as I see it, the money is smaller in the budget than last year? So I would intercede across the House. I have had the opportunity to talk to Members from almost all political parties and movements, and they all offer help. They say it should be found somewhere. Well, please, it's not a political thing, it's a matter for all of us, we don't want to lose our woods and watch a bunch of crusts. Thank you very much, and I hope we can find a solution together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Faltýnek will respond to a point of fact. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u58	Hello, thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I just gave a brief reaction to my colleague's performance. About an hour ago, I dealt with this problem with Mr. Agriculture Minister Toman, where I called on him, as you did, to look for money within his chapter. Today there's 620 million crowns, I feel from the waist. And the promise is that within the department of agriculture and its chapter, the amount should be about one billion crowns. So we're looking for money to solve the cruststorm within the Department of Agriculture budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u59	Thank you. Mr Baxa will now be speaking in the debate, followed by Mr Zahradník. I'm just reminding everyone that we have a fixed ballot for 12.45 hours, so that's the limit to which we can talk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u60	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, let me draw your attention to the budget chapter of the Ministry of Culture of the Czech Republic, one of the segments of the entire budget that is being discussed here. I have the feeling that the draft budget of the Ministry of Culture for 2019 on such a smaller scale reflects what has already been said here. This means that they do not see any benefits of how the economy is currently working when I say it this way. It is not reflected in the budget of the Ministry of Culture that the country is going through an unprecedented stage of development, prosperity, which is also reflected in the fact that the interest of citizens of the Czech Republic in cultural services, cultural events, cultural monuments, that is, what we can be proud of especially at a time when we celebrate the 100th anniversary of independent Czechoslovakia. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] [[12.40 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to criticise the Ministry of Culture's budget as a whole because there is one important thing in it. On the one hand, and this can undoubtedly be attributed to the plus sign, the Ministry of Culture is significantly increasing the budget for its established contribution organisations. Firstly, as regards the operational contribution to cultural institutions, on the one hand, as regards investments in so-called "investments'. national cultural treasure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u61	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, let the arguments be heard and Mr Baxa may, in an acceptable atmosphere, talk about what he considers important. Please, Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. There is therefore an increase in investment funds into the so-called national cultural treasure. Everything's fine until then. But what I think is worthy of clear criticism, and I am sorry that the Minister is not here at this time, is that the funds for people who are engaged in cultural activities outside the cultural institutions of the Ministry of Culture of the Czech Republic have really increased completely, and very little funds have grown in the area of care for cultural monuments. The programme of state support for professional theatres and permanent professional symphony orchestras and choirs is designed for next year at an unchanged rate of 160 million. CZK, as was the case this year, despite the fact that the cultural public, individual associations, individual professional organisations have long called for money to be significantly increased in this programme, for one simple reason, because the state increases, through government regulations, salaries in this sphere, which is in itself okay, people working for little money in culture, salaries are to be higher, but the state refuses to compensate in any way the costs, which are due in particular to municipalities, municipalities and regions. And these 160 miles. Everything is intended to help dozens and dozens of cultural institutions that set up both regions and cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic. For me, 160 miles. is proof that probably the Ministry of Culture and Government does not care about maintaining culture in the regions. I criticise this clearly and reject this approach, because if this is to be borne by the authorities on their shoulders, there may sooner or later be situations where some of them will wonder why we should offset from our own money what is imposed on us by the state, and at the same time it is relatively small amounts. I will come back to this later, and I will also propose amendments to this effect. And as for the care of cultural monuments, it is a topic on which everyone is always cross-cutting. We need to take care of the cultural heritage that our ancestors left behind. Our monuments have a clear potential in tourism. It is a phenomenon specific to the Czech Republic, which means that citizens are more interested in cultural monuments, they visit them atp. Unfortunately, this again does not correspond to the draft budget of the Ministry of Culture in this area. Everything is increasing the relevant part of this expenditure block by 37 million. CZK - but to say this in fact: 700 miles this year was 737 miles. for 2019. At a time when the prices of construction work are rising in general, the prices of restoration services are increasing, so what concerns the care of cultural monuments, so we can actually say that there is no significant increase in the budget in this area. Thus, this government says that we will not repay the debt that was created on our cultural heritage in decades of communist government and that we do not claim to restore, renovate and restore the cultural heritage of the Czech Republic in the form of cultural monuments. I also submit to very strict criticisms, and in this area I will then propose adjustments to the budget so that we, together as the Chamber of Deputies, say that we value the cultural heritage in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-001-001.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. It's 12.44. At 12.45 we have fixed voting points. At this point, I am interrupting the state budget proposal. I ask the President of the Election Commission to come to the speaker's desk slowly. At this point, it's 12:45, so we're going to be dealing with the first fixed point, which is
