ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-005-029.u1	29. Government bill amending Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on Recording of Sales, as amended, and Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended / House print 205/ - First Reading We renegotiated this point on Friday 14 September and the item was interrupted in the general debate. I ask that the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, who is already there, and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jan Volný, take the position at the rapporteur's table. We will continue the adjourned debate. We interrupted the debate when Mr Marian Jurečka was speaking. I'm asking... The Member will sign in, so we will continue with those who are now logged in. Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Kobza, is in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-005-029.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the Minister's objection that there is a need to address the problem of tax defaults and that EET is the way and that she refuses to resign from the problem. I think there are a number of better ways to motivate people to pay those taxes, instead of the repressive approach of introducing the third and fourth EET wave, which, as I said last time, will primarily fall on the honest ones that will include the new bureaucracy, and the dishonest ones will simply ignore it. The government should open up the state's management so that people are motivated to pay taxes. The government should fight tax evasion of the big ones, with evasion into tax havens, so that people can see that everyone has to pay taxes. The government should focus on the really big fish, the ways in which profits are made through fictional services. There are a number of steps that the Ministry of Finance can take to increase the incentive to pay the tax. Similarly, the government should simplify the tax system, limit the amount of exemptions, reduce the amount of tax rates. Instead, we're watching the opposite. If people knew their way around that system, they'd be more willing to pay for it again. Likewise, the government should focus its attention on the state actually spending its resources meaningfully. For businessmen, I think it's pretty demotivative to pay taxes on giant entrepreneurs, whether in agriculture or in other areas, to pay taxes that finance biofuels and other nonsense that harm the environment. These are the things the government is supposed to focus on to increase tax revenue, and the repression is supposed to come at the very last possible moment and in a way that will at least be a little meaningful. The third fourth wave of EET is simply not meaningful. It's just that a person who doesn't want to make the sale doesn't issue the receipt, his customer logically has no reason to turn him in when he actually got the tax discount. And there's no logic whatsoever to why that tax collection would increase through the third and fourth waves. It is a bureaucratic measure that does not address the nature of the problem at all. I therefore appeal once again to all Members to support the rejection of this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-005-029.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kobza, Mr Janda, will next appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-005-029.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues, honourable Members of the public, according to the contributions I hear here, the House seems to have decided to continue the campaign against small business. The contribution made by Mr Bláha, who presented himself as a small businessman with only 12 establishments, led me to the idea that we should probably introduce other concepts - a micro entrepreneur or a pico entrepreneur. Because how else can we label a type of businessman - the single mother makes extra money by selling cosmetics or washing pills. And in such a way of doing business, the need to invest in the EET system, then her business becomes a very, very hungry bone. Moreover, it is this kind of business that is the favourite subject of controls on Financial Administration and subsequent drastic sanctions when it discovers something wrongly filled or incorrectly reported. I wonder in vain what those little businessmen and people who, in addition to their work at work, are still earning their business, what they did, what they're being punished for. The only answer I can think of is that they were probably guilty of the most horrible crime - they wanted to be free and independent, alone. These are people who may not do much to the system, they also have nothing to do with it, but they try not to burden the system, because they try not to want anything from it, except maybe to let them be and not to shower them with another and another administration based on draconian to liquidation fines, which the Financial Administration does not head off. For example, for improperly completed inspection reports, which have not suffered any damage, is a fine of 50,000, and this is indeed a liquidation for an entrepreneur who is less than a million. [[12.50 hours]] So, on the one hand, we have a lot of political proclamations about supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, especially before the elections. But what's the reality? The obsession of state authorities after even more checks, reports, records, reports goes hand in hand with other and other orders and bans for increasing control offices and, in particular, the number of controllers. Or maybe she said support when she transferred from Orwellův's newspeak means even more control, even more bans, even more administration and bureaucracy. During the introduction of the EET, I attended a seminar organized by former Deputy Secretary Hornochová. The Director of the Financial Administration admitted that he had released 200 employees of the Financial Administration for the first wave of the EET and recruited 300 other controllers to control the introduction of the EET on the markets. And priori EET was meant and aimed at the smallest, the smallest and the weakest. We have heard a lot of numbers here about how much the introduction of the EET took and how much it cost and how much it cost the tradesmen in question in particular. I can't shake the impression that it was just another blow to the ligament of a small business. This is not just about EET, but about the whole complex of other regulations that restrict business activities. From, for example, the wine law, which prohibited the trade in barrel wine and the movement of bottled wines into recyclable stainless steel barrels, into disposable packaging bag-in-box, created several freight trains of plastic and paper waste which were not there before. In this way, he has loaded most operators with more work, more administration, more waste management. The Smoking Act, which has moved visitors to privacy or to the street, after a check report that is certainly relevant in the fight against carousel fraud, but I have to admit that I doubt very much that our local greengrocer or souvenir salesman would be involved in any way. This whole complex of bureaucratic measures destroys small businesses for the benefit of large, most multinational corporations, because the liquidated small businesses give them space on the market. Talking about the need to pay taxes is correct, but that is not what this discussion is about. In my opinion, the prosperity of the state can and should be measured by the collection of direct taxes, because they show how the state allows its citizens to make money on these taxes. Because if a citizen doesn't pay a profit tax when instead of doing meaningful work at home, he fills in stacks of paper and studies constantly changing regulations and decrees, so he doesn't generate profits, the state will impose fines and indirect taxes. And that's the way we in the SDP are not going to accept it and support it. We consider small and medium-sized enterprises to be an indicator of freedom of business in this country, and we consider the current situation to be very trivial. That is why we want to impose a direct tax on small businessmen, so that we can free this sector from the grip of a rampant democracy. On the argument where we will cover the losses incurred by this, I answer that, on the one hand, flat-rate tax will continue to be levied, and in addition, a huge control and monitoring system will be saved. We also expect an increase in the number of entrepreneurs in addition to employment by releasing small businesses in the form of flat-rate taxes, and hence a higher tax collection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-005-029.u5	Thank you. Mr Janda, Mr Jurečka, will now speak in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-005-029.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my previous speakers here discussed, in particular, the introduction of another EET wave, which, of course, I cannot in principle agree with, because stalking people and throwing sticks under the feet of entrepreneurs has always been a stranger to me. However, this government proposal is more extensive and contains several other changes. Proposal e.g. Mm-hmm. sets the parameters so called. a special regime designed to mitigate the EET's obligation to record sales for entrepreneurs up to an annual amount of CZK 200,000. It may seem to make it easier for entrepreneurs. But that is not entirely true. They will remain obliged to report on a quarterly basis in the form of transmission of paper receipts and sales reports. We are in this situation again, as is the custom of this government, when even the smallest ones are complicated by unnecessary bureaucracy, harassing unnecessary paperwork and instead of letting them live and work, ordering them to keep new and new responsibilities, then changing them in the course of the process, and eventually canceling them. Again and again it turns out that the EET was a completely unnecessary step, and this change proves it. I hereby report to the tradesmen, among whom there are many athletes, that when the ODS government is assembled, we will dismantle this bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-005-029.u7	Thank you. Mr Martínek will now make a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-005-029.u8	Thank you. I would like to respond briefly to Mr Kobza, because I may have misheard there, hopefully it was a mistake. But I overheard the words of a rampant democracy, so I don't know what it means in the SPD concept, and I hope it was really a misrepresentation, because otherwise it would really be something that we don't want to deal with here. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-005-029.u9	Thank you. Mr Jurečka in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-005-029.u10	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, Madam Secretary, it seems to me that I have it five minutes before the scheduled break, but I will try to enter that time. I will just allow Mr Kobza to respond, who has spoken here about the issues relating to the wine market, etc. I just want to say that it wasn't the ministerial and government proposal that brought this up at the time. Finally, it was a proposal that went through the modifications of the Chamber of Deputies and Parliament in this area. As Minister at the time, I did not bring such requirements for a change in the way of packaging in the wine market. However, on the other hand, it should be recalled that the situation in terms of wine overlay was quite serious and there were not many other measures to change the situation, which we have succeeded today. However, I have suggested a little different ways of doing so. However, now to discuss the EET. I'm not gonna repeat the things I mentioned last week. Let me just remind you that it really said in the coalition agreement that this would concern selected disciplines and that these measures would be sufficiently compensatory by the government to compensate for the costs that the business sector would have with it, which unfortunately has not been implemented in practice. However, we are now standing here in front of this novel. At least two years ago, we were trying to disengage the phase so that there would be some time lag, an evaluation of phase one and phase two. I think that who has read the Constitutional Court's finding, so I think that there has been a lot of constructive and rational arguments that this EET application is quite hard on small businessmen. I ask myself here today - I ask that the Minister be able to respond to it - as the limit of CZK 200,000 occurred, which is the limit for the supposedly freer regime, although Mr Janda here was quite clear about the fact that it will bear administrative demands, a lot of people, for example some opinion doctors, will cease their activities because they will not be able to make quarterly paper reports due to a few reports in the year, so he will cancel it, i.e. again the strain on the remaining doctors in the system. It is certainly not ideal to set it this way, because if you look at the tax calculators today in the case of the CFI, you will find that the businessman himself, if he uses 60% flat-rate, so to, say, income of approximately CZK 410,000, does not pay any tax to the state. There's a flat rate, there's a tax discount. So I'm asking why we're introducing measures against some group that we're not getting a penny of tax out of. If we look at a businessman who has a wife, he'll have two children, the amount will be over a million crowns. My question is where we set the limit of CZK 200,000, why, from my point of view, there was no more logical limit of at least CZK 400,000, so that we do not take measures that will generate costs, but for the state the effect will be absolutely minimal, rather negative, because some of the activities, still others, which are not yet in the system in the 3rd and 4th waves, will end it. I think that we should learn, and we really should be those legislators who are, let's say, effective in the sense that we realize that these measures, although sometimes defended by godly arguments or rather by numbers, will have counterproductive consequences in practice. I think that the lesson was supposed to be here, and unfortunately I'm reflecting on a proposal that may seem like it's coming out for businessmen, so from the point of view of the 3rd and 4th wave, who it hits, I don't see the positives that way. I would like to make one more comment at the end. I read the headlines when the Prime Minister said she made EET, and he talked about some billions of dollars. EET didn't make a damn thing. The entrepreneurs, the businessmen, made it, and the EET is just a tool. And we're here today in a situation where we should try to humanize the parameters so that it's really effective, meaningful, but let's not apply it somewhere where it doesn't bring an extra crown for the state in terms of tax collection. On the contrary, we'll lose the businessmen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-005-029.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before we go any further, I'll introduce you to an apology. Mr Tomáš Kohoutek apologizes for today's meeting between 14.30 and 19 pm due to negotiations in the electoral region. It's 12.59. There are two colleagues who have signed up with a point of fact, Mr Kobza and President Stanjura. But we would not have the opportunity to make any of these factual remarks, because at 13:00, which is right now, we are ending the morning meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will continue at 14.30 hours with a fixed point, which is the government's information on the global pact. At the same time, I remind the members of the Organising Committee that in five minutes the Organising Committee will meet in the usual place. Enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-005-029.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. First of all, I have an organizational message for you on the course of tomorrow morning's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. On the basis of the agreement reached on the Gremium and today's Organizing Committee, tomorrow morning's meeting will not begin until ten o'clock when we discuss paragraph 168, which are the answers of the members of the Government to written interpelations, and in the event of an earlier termination of this item, we would continue to discuss the fixed points immediately after any changes to the 19th meeting will be voted. That means, the interpellation, according to my information, maybe there should be only one. And it's still a matter of some kind of agreement. This means, as soon as this is over, not that we will be waiting from eleven o'clock, but we will continue to follow up on the next agenda of the Chamber of Deputies meeting. And I would like to inform you that oral interpelations may be filed here at the O.R. at nine o'clock. So we're gonna start from ten, but oral interpelations can be filed here at the O.R. at nine o'clock. So that's for the meeting. So now we're going to proceed to the next point, which is
