ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u1	126. Members of Lukáš Bartoň, Martin Kolovratník, Ivana Nevludová, Jan Zahradník and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 114/1995 Coll., on Inland Navigation, as amended /German press 157/ - third reading We interrupted the discussion of this proposal on Wednesday, 5 December this year in the debate. I ask that Mr Lukáš Bartoň and Mr Vojtěch Munzar take the position of rapporteur at the table of rapporteurs for the petitioner and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee for the economic committee. The amendments are in the Houses of the Press 157/3 and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee has been delivered to you as the House Press 157/4. I recall that on 5 December this year, in the debate, Mr Dan Ťok and the Minister of Transport made a proposal for a second reading. We will vote on this proposal after the end of the debate. We will now continue the interrupted debate and just point out that they were on the point of fact on Wednesday 5. 12. Mr Marek Novák and Member Leo Luzar entered before the end of the debate. So I'm just gonna see if they're interested, but I don't think they're even here. So further, Mr Martin Kolovratník has made himself known to the general debate, so I am giving him the floor immediately. And Mr Petr Pávek will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u2	Good afternoon now, colleagues. I originally considered that I would not even speak to this proposal, but I will do it and I will be very brief. I would like to speak to you briefly as Chairman of the Transport Sub-Committee. I am also one of the proponents of this proposal, and the truth is that I am in a minority in this opinion among my colleagues in the ANO club, and I am aware of that, but I feel it is good to tell you my position. You know, I remember the very excited debates that were here in the last parliamentary term, and with you colleagues, the Minister and I experienced them when they related to breaking the zero line on the bike paths, on the wine trails, etc. And I'm a little sorry for the unnecessary emotions that we heard here this week on Wednesday, but I understand that such points are simply emotional. My position has been the same since last time. I'm up for zero tolerance. I remember the statistics, the numbers we received from both paramedics, paramedics, and traffic police, for example, the head of traffic police, Tomáš Lerch. And there in me, at least internally, the liberal is not at that moment, and I am really deeply convinced that zero tolerance, although my colleague Zbyněk Stanjura informed us here on Wednesday, has pleased us with the statistics from the surrounding countries, so in this case on the roads, in the road traffic it is for me, and it will always be an immutable position absolutely unstoppable. But the difference in my case is a little bit by the water, and that's probably my slightly different opinion about my colleagues. I simply think that we are threatening ourselves on the water in quotation marks, not other traffic participants, and that, indeed, today, when the state is tying everything up, it regulates, so that perhaps this liberal view, a little freedom, freedom, we should give people, that group of watermen we are discussing here. That is why I was willing to co-sign the proposal with my colleagues who came up with the initiative. I shall perhaps just briefly mention the compromise proposal on which we agreed at the time on the guarantee economic committee, which has therefore just spoken and suggested that a stricter view would concern the leaders of the vessel, so-called. In the case of a canoe, but with the crew, we'd actually leave it up to her. But I feel from the debate that we need to get back to it, maybe find some other solution, maybe find a bigger compromise, sharpen the edges a little bit, and I want to thank Minister Dan Ťok for the idea, the proposal he came up with during the last debate on this law here on Wednesday, that we would return it to second reading and that we would try some sensible solution, and now I do not anticipate what it is, but that we would try to find it. I know, and I suspect, Mr Bartoň, that he's worried about making it all happen, but I'm still wondering, it's December, so we have quite a lot of time until the start of the water season. So today, after the presentation of my position, I would very much like to ask you to support the Minister so that we can return the bill to second reading. I think we are able to find a position during the winter months, January, February, which will be comfortable for both the Ministry of Transport and for most of us here in the Chamber of Deputies. I can promise or offer help for myself. For example, the subcommittee on transport could still be the specific place where we could find the precise wording, where we could agree on which direction to go. The subcommittee can take place, we can call it in right now for the January meeting. So much for my position. And if you are considering, or if you are having second thoughts, I will certainly ask you, on behalf of the Minister, to support his proposal so that we can return to the law. I believe we can make it in the winter months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u3	Thank you. Of course, as I said in the introduction, we reflect. Otherwise, I have an apology here. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes until the end of the day for business reasons. And now two factual points have come up, so I am the first to call on Mr Ivan Adamec to prepare Mr Lukáš Černohorský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u4	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard nice words from our colleague Kolovratník, as we return it, and we will redo it so that everyone is satisfied. And I'm going to ask, what path are we going to take? All of a sudden, I hear zero tolerance here, and then I hear that one pardon is too much, or is it that you think you're going to take the watermen out of it? I'm kind of curious about that. Because removing watermen from the bill is not an easy thing to do. And if anyone thinks we're gonna do this to read the subcommittee or read the committee, they're either painting us or they just can't mean it. I think it's so complicated that we can't handle it. It will end by saying we're going to be sorry about it, half a pardon etc., we're going to get back into that zero tolerance discussion that I don't think should be combined with the watermen at all, because it's a human activity of interest, it's not traffic, it's not the transport routes they drive, there's really no roads, because there's nothing but the kegs, the kayaks and the rafts that don't go there. So let's not get illusions, let's not paint here, let's not tell the world's pink vision that we'll fix it by the next reading. We won't! If you tell me you're capable of doing this, and in the spirit that it will be so that we remove the watermen on rivers that are not roads, from this regime, I will support it, but if it doesn't, I am hard against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u5	Thank you. Now, with Mr Lukáš Černohorský factual remark, I do not yet have another factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u6	Hello, everyone. I'll respond here to the previous speaker. Bartoň, a fellow Member here, pointed out that it is possible that we will not be able to make it by next season. We also thought it would be quick to get through, there's a consensus on all the clubs, and how long it took us before this law came into force. I'm afraid it would be similar if we put it back to second reading now, that there was no real chance of us making it to the nearest water season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u7	We will now return to the general debate, so Mr Petr Pávek. He's excused. See, this is where it comes in from the last hearing. And as the last Member of the Válek. Yes, you're present, so I give you my word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I've already been on my mark set up in a backseat to take off and not stall. It is not clear to me why we could not do what Minister Ťok proposes, which I personally like very much, and at the same time vote what the Senate proposes, or raise it to one perm. Both are possible, because then if it falls out of the law, why wouldn't it be possible? Maybe there's a reason and I'll have it explained. However, what I signed up for was something else. I think that we should really minimize restrictions on leisure activities, and that is without a doubt watering them down. It's hiking in the mountains anyway, it's a number of other activities where this person can be dangerous to himself, it can be dangerous to others, and we don't have any restrictions on alcohol consumption. I totally agree with the Minister of Health, and I strongly support him for the fact that alcohol consumption is really rising, and there is no doubt that alcohol is not a kind of vitamin, alcohol is not a kind of cure, except, say, alcoholization of hepatocellular carcinoma. On the other hand, there's no way to solve anything. Restriction is always a way to hell, and restriction only rarely has a good effect. More important is the promotion, more important is the education of children, youth, the population, explaining the risks of harmfulness, more important is that anyone can regard individual drugs as dangerous and risky, and I think that our approach to alcohol should also be. Yes, where this person, after drinking alcohol, if I take alcohol as an example, is dangerous to his surroundings, commits criminal activity, can happen to cause a severe injury or death to many others, so yes, there is clarity, there is the role of the state to act more aggressively and perform an instrument of restriction, which is certainly the situation in motor transport, but certainly not the situation of watermen. I'm like a young, hairy and slimy guy used to be a water man, I was a paramedic for the water crew. On the other hand, I drank cofola on the water because I'm on a cofola, and I didn't drink beer, but that's my problem, so I don't really think all the watermen on every lake and every break consume alcohol, that's just not it. On the other hand, I don't see the absolute problem of having one beer and taking off water and being on a boat and on a raft or anywhere else. [[12.30 hours]] What I'm doing with the whole legislation and the whole restriction strategy that comes out of that legislation is some kind of prevention. Preventing me from even getting on a boat, risk being forced to breathe, sit on a boat, and at that point, someone jumps out and checks if I have alcohol. I firmly believe that our police do not do or plan to do anything like this and will not. But why the hell would you even let something like that out? Why let a Kraken like that out in the first place? And even with the skipper, if he's a quarterback, then again, if we stop the quarterback from drinking alcohol, which I'm sure in the case of the quarterback or not, whoever he is, is important, then how do we figure out who the skipper is? Are we going to give some IDs to the ship's commanders again, or are we going to find out who's the master of the vessel? I would really, really, really intercede, let's be tolerant, let's be reasonable. Let's minimize our restrictions and do our utmost to make this law human for watermen as quickly as possible and allow them to have one beer on that water. And then let's talk about whether or not to change the legislation in general and the inclusion of watermen in a law where they probably shouldn't have anything to do. Let's go one step at a time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u9	There. Mr Bartoň also wishes to speak. There you go. I'll give you some space.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u10	I'd wait for the facts. Then I'll go to the general.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u11	Okay. So, on the point of fact, Mrs Procházková and Mr Beitl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u12	Very briefly to my speaker, to Mr Válek, through you, Mr President. What he said doesn't make any sense, because if we're talking about restrictions, then why is there one permile? Then why is there anything like that in there? Then why isn't there anything there if he doesn't want restrictions, right? There's no logic to this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u13	There. Mr Beitl has withdrawn the factual point, which is why I will now give Mr Lukáš Bartoň the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I think I'd like to start by reacting to Mrs Procházková. Why doesn't it matter? Well, there's a pardon there because it's a compromise proposal. It wasn't in the original proposal at all. The original proposal was completely without limitation with the fact that this fine will not be a priori giving to someone who does not threaten others who behave responsibly. That's what this whole proposal is about. Because some disagree that it would be unlimited for this vessel leader here, so we proposed a compromise proposal to limit the ship's leader, who is actually responsible for the entire crew, for the entire vessel to be limited to some degree of alcohol. For the Economic Committee, when I put forward this compromise proposal, there were amounts of one permile, 0.8 permile, 0.5 permile. The Economic Committee has discussed this and has taken the view that one permile is okay because it is a motorless vessel. It is, if I may say so, a means of transport in which there is no need for the reaction time of the person who is affected by alcohol. That's why we're going to allow the watermen as much as possible. Even to get back to the way we got here to the third reading and the proposal to return to the second reading again. In March of this year I visited Minister Ťok, who can probably confirm this, and I came to him with this proposal that I would like to address this. The Minister has given me a de facto negative opinion, which still insists that it is against breaking zero tolerance. That is why I asked for Mr Kolovratník's cooperation, with whom we sat, we discussed it, and I continued to go around all the clubs. Representatives of eight MPs shall be signed under this proposal. Since there were great criticisms at first reading, I made a compromise proposal not to have unlimited boatmasters. To have it somehow limited to one, 0.8, 0.5. I have tabled this compromise proposal to the Economic Committee. The Economic Committee has adopted one permile. The Economic Committee shall submit this proposal to the second reading. At second reading, anyone could have filed a counterclaim. Anyone who could say one promile is too much, we want less. That didn't happen. We are now at the third reading and it is proposed to return to the second. This proposal was made by Minister Ťok with a vision of whether the watermen could not be removed completely from the law, so they would not be limited by one perm, they should be unlimited. Personally, I don't think the proposal to remove the waterfalls is entirely happy. The moment we remove them only from the section on offense, all the other rules apply to them. He has to follow all the other rules. It is an analogy if we remove pedestrians from the Road Act, he would not be a party to road traffic. Suddenly there would also be no ground rules for him. It's the same with the water traffic. So there are other rules that the watermen must observe that the leader of the vessel is responsible for the crew. That's an important rule. That at any time a shipping service or a police officer may exclude a crew that is under the influence of alcohol from the voyage at all, that he may exclude it from the ship. I think that's also a good rule that they follow the rules at all. The navigability of the lakes, etc., must be governed by all the rules that are also contained on these traffically insignificant roads by which the watermen ride. And I guess I could go on with all the... In fact, everything except this regulation, except this one paragraph about alcohol, that a priori gets fined by someone who has some alcohol without acting any way against his surroundings, however much he threatened someone or threatened his crew, he can't do that either, of course. That's why I don't think returning to second reading is happy. I would ask if we could approve this law now. Don't return it to second reading. To be surprised, if necessary, what the Senate will do is to make an amendment to whether or not he likes one of the pardons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u15	Yes, now I have one more de facto. So, Mrs Procházková. Next... That will be the final word when the debate is over, Mr Member. [[Interview off the microphone.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u16	Once again to my speaker through you, Mr President. Well, it still doesn't solve the fact that you're gonna control these people. So you're going to control the zero. You're gonna check that one. Like when do you choose and how do you choose who to control? How do you want to check that one? You have to let him breathe. So it doesn't solve anything at all, this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u17	I now have one more factual point, and it is Mr Ferjenčík. Last logged in so far. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u18	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond to a colleague who spoke before me. It seems a little unfair to me that the moment we come to a compromise that makes our proposal less radical, then you start attacking that it isn't systemic enough and that it doesn't actually go far enough, actually from the other side. We simply wanted to meet as many Members as possible in this House. I think we did it. Then let's approve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u19	Mr. Ambassador, do you still want to go into the general debate, or is that the final word? In general. Mr. Munzar, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u20	After all, I will say this because it is my personal political opinion, in a debate rather than in the final word as rapporteur. Today, we will decide what is to be a misdemeanor. Because the line that the plaintiffs are introducing is the line from which the offense will be fined. And I've already said here on Wednesday, and I wondered if normality should be a misdemeanor. After all, it's normal - and a lot of speakers here who didn't want to break the line, but they admitted that beer, two, on the water they would, so the real question is whether in our right to let it be that normality is a violation. Because the more bans and orders, the less people's respect for the law will be and the more people will violate this right because they will consider it absurd. And if we want to have a right worthy of respect in the Czech Republic, then we should not really indulge it with various prohibitions and orders like today. And I see this proposal as an effort to correct it and to try not to make normal a misdemeanor, so that people who have free-time guidance, so that they can really enjoy it and not be bound by unnecessary bans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u21	Thank you. I've got another real one coming in. So, Mr. MP Milan Feranec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u22	Thank you, Mr President. It's really just a short remark. Normality - I don't think it's normal to have one, maybe two perm, to load a family, children into a boat and go to risk. I don't think that's normal, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u23	There. So far, last logged in. I'll look around the O.R. to see if there's any interest in the performance. It's not. So I'm ending the general debate. Do Mr Munzar or Mr Lukáš Bartoň have any interest in the final words? Or make a deal, it doesn't matter. I don't want to set a special order here. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u24	Well, I'm gonna ask you not to go back to second reading again in the end. Because we're still not going to make a proposal at that second reading that we haven't discussed. All the proposals that were there, including navigability, including removal from transport routes, were already on the Economic Committee and the Economic Committee did not accept this amendment. And no one has ever submitted it. The Economic Committee also discussed the level of alcohol and accepted this. No one presented any other value again at second reading. So please do not return to second reading and approve the amendments of the Economic Committee and the entire law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u25	Now, therefore, Mr Munzar as a guarantee rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u26	I'll be very brief. The gros of this proposal is - in the event of the adoption of a proposal by the Economic Committee, the introduction of a line from which this offence will be fined. No other rules shall be affected by this. All responsibilities apply in the event of the adoption of this proposal from this and from other legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-003-126.u27	Thank you. I will now read two more apologies before we proceed to the vote. Mrs Ivana Nevludová apologises from 13.45 to the end of the day for work reasons and apologizes to Minister Jana Maláčová from 12.30 for work reasons. We must therefore now proceed to the vote on the proposal to repeat the second reading, which 5. 12. Mr. and Minister of Transport Jan Ťok delivered in the debate. I'll call you to the conference room. There's a check-out request, so I'm gonna check you all out and sign up again with your voting cards. I think we're in sufficient numbers here. We will therefore vote on the proposal to repeat the second reading. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of a second reading review proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's vote number 98. 152 Members are registered, for 92, against 51. The motion was accepted. So there will be a repetition of the second reading of this bill. I'm done discussing this proposal for the moment. We will proceed to discuss the next press. This is about
