ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u1	76. Multi-annual EU financial framework 2021 - 2027 /German press 227-E/ - first reading It's an interrupted point that we discussed last Thursday 20. 9. I recall that the Committee on European Affairs discussed the Commission communication, the proposal for a Council regulation, and initiated its inclusion at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. The opinion of the committee and the motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies are part of the presented press 227-E. I ask that Adam Kalous take up the rapporteur's seat at the rapporteur's table, and the Minister of Finance is ready. We have Mr Mikuláš Peksa and Mr Jan Skopeček signed up, but with priority rights the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic is Mr Andrej Babiš. With priority rights, Prime Minister, you have the opportunity to perform. I ask the House for peace! Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of May this year, the European Commission presented a proposal for a multiannual financial framework for the European Union for 2021 to 2027. According to the Commission, the proposed budget is intended to enable the effects of brexit to be compensated, to provide adequate resources for cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy and to increase expenditure on the new priorities of the European Union. I personally am very critical of this draft budget. On the one hand, I think that with this budget - and perhaps that will happen - we should wait for the next Commission, and even the draft budget, where one actually has to look for new chapters, and the budget is little understood, so I also criticized it at the level of the European Council and during bilateral meetings with individual premieres. Of course, we can start from the amount of the contribution, which can be designed or designed at 1.11 - so far it has been 1.14. Of course, it is clear that clean payers have an opinion about this. And we'll get less and less of that money, too. I find the item European public administration absolutely incredible, i.e. the total cost of the European Union, where the European Union, virtually. the structures come up with a budget increase of 23 percent. And that's 15 percent of the population is leaving when it's brexit, so if we translate it by some price, it's 25 billion. EUR space. And I also ask why the cost of European structures is increasing. So I don't like it very much. [[16.00 hours]] Furthermore, I do not like the fact that the European Commission actually proposes a new item security and defence, which goes from 1.9 billion. EUR 27. I do not understand why, when we are members of NATO, we are fulfilling our obligations, and we want to meet them in 2024, and this will mean increasing our military spending by 150 percent. Of course, these calculations over GDP are often pointless because Estonia has 2%, but it has 500 million. Dollars, such Belgium has 0.9 and 4.5 billion. And we have $1.14 and 2.5 billion. dollars. So even at the NATO meeting, I personally explained to President Trump that we need to talk about nominal amounts. And why should we take money from the European arms budget? I don't think that's good. The classic positions such as cohesion and agriculture are decreasing, but most of the states, of course, the V4 states, we want the cohesion because we want to invest, and that is important for us. I do not understand, I can think that there are some new items that some Member States could draw, and we may not reach them. So I would just like to say for myself and for the government that I am very critical of the draft budget. Overall, when we take the protection of external borders, I asked the last Council why we are increasing Frontex's budget from 1.7 billion. EUR 10 billion. The euro where the new one is going to work, it's actually the backup police, or the backup coast guard of the Member States, from 1,500 to 10,000. I think that Frontex is supposed to act and help in return policy, that is, to return those migrants who have not received asylum, illegal migrants to return because they have not received asylum. And perhaps we should mainly help the coastguards of Libya or Egypt and other North African countries. I myself will visit Frontex on 15 October and discuss it with them. So I see about 75 billion in total. The euros that are designed there into some new positions for which, I think, maybe there could be a better use. For us, if I go back to the cohesion policy, it is crucial for us, and we want to have greater powers to decide in future programming period 21 plus what area we want to finance from European funds, all the more so that the balance and overall income of money will be lower. We are currently bound by strict European rules and the government has limited opportunities to redirect funds during the programming period. We already wrote in April, Minister Dostálová, Commissioner Cret, that we wanted to move the money that we are not drawing into positions where the overhang is. Well, it all takes a long time. The government does not support the compulsory ceiling of direct payments either. Member States should decide on their own whether to introduce and move the means elsewhere. That means we have a clear position. And these are the classic items where the proposal gives rise to a lower budget and increases others. We also have reservations about the proposed system of linking European funds to the assessment of the rule of law. We think that the proposal would significantly strengthen the powers of the European Commission vis-à-vis the Member States. Moreover, the government does not support the European Commission's proposal to introduce new sources for financing the EU budget. These resources would complicate our system of financing the EU budget, and they could also increase the powers of the European Commission in monitoring the selection of these resources. So in the past, our government, I don't know why, it had one priority, we have several, and we can have different allies at each priority, and we're talking to them. I can also, of course, mention the framework that it takes seven years for us to approve the current one in 2012, when unemployment was 9.5%, and today the lowest unemployment in Europe, a big problem. Basically, I don't like soft programs, different conferences, workshops. I think, and our government came up with a multi-annual investment plan, and we need to invest hundreds of billions here. Hundreds of billions, as I say, into concrete, highways, bypasses, hospitals, kindergartens, schools, senior homes, etc. So we want to promote and promote that we have a much greater influence on this than we have so far. At this time, we have 22.5 percent of the European Social Fund, the ESF. And when we started pumping, and lately, even because the Commission was late, the first one to draw was the MPSV, it jumped 800 miles. The second was the Ministry of Transport. Those are the things we want to discuss. And really, in a situation where the workforce is not in any profession, it really needs to be told who we want to requalify and why we're getting some soft programs at all. I think we can subsidize these programmes from the Czech budget, and we certainly want it, but we certainly want it to be effective. So I have also been involved several times in bilateral negotiations within the framework of the V4. We have a lot of comments on this. Today, and it's just documenting how it works, we've seen historical success since my speech on Ecofin 14. 6. 2014 Four-and-a-half years have passed, and for the first time in the history of our country, our membership in the EU, we have enforced reverse charge. Yes, we finally made it to the end against the will of the Commission and individual Member States, because we know best how to fight tax evasion in our country. So we did it, it's a historical success, and it took four and a half years. This is how we see how the Commission works. So let us hope that the next European elections will change our position, and this will change the position of the Commission, which is too often political, and that the Commission will indeed be more back office for the Member States that will have the lead. And we're talking loud and clear, and we're proposing things that I think are very rational. So I'm sure we'll talk about the budget. The question is, will it make it? I think it will probably wait until the next Commission, but we are clear about it, and our government has given me a clear mandate to perform like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u3	I thank the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Andrej Babiš for his performance. And Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, a member of the party, was preceded by a factual remark. I'm sure Peksa's colleague is ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u4	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, while I can agree with the Prime Minister on this issue of cohesion policy, logically, this is the priority of the Czech Republic in order to conquer the infrastructure, on the contrary, I must fundamentally disagree with the government's position on agricultural payments. In our opinion, this is the wrong policy of the Czech Republic. We think our agriculture needs to be changed. And the fact that it is beneficial for the Prime Minister as a person does not mean that it is beneficial for the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u5	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Mikuláš Peksa, Mr Skopeček will prepare himself. [[Outside the microphone negotiating the order of the speakers.]] No, Mr. Peksa's colleague now. Oh, my colleague... you're logged in normally for the debate. My colleague Kobza volunteered, but only after I summoned you. So you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u6	I understand, thank you. Okay, well, thank you for your word. I'll try to be as short as I can. Like my party colleague, through President Mikuláš Ferjenčík, I strongly disagree with the position of the Czech Government and the Prime Minister on the ceiling of subsidies. I see a clear conflict of interest between Agrofert and the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. I would simply say about the budget that we have heard here, I think it should clearly support common defence, because Europe needs common defence, it needs to be operational. And it should definitely promote common border control, because that is the problem that has been raised by the people, and citizens expect us to address it. I think you've all noticed that last week, the European Commission has announced that it will deal with the conflict of interests of Andrej Babiš, so I assume we all understand that this is not some fiction, but a real problem. So, given that there is probably a resolution at the end, I would like to add this resolution to the fact that the Chamber of Deputies calls for restrictions on subsidies paid to large business entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u7	I thank Mr Mikuláš Peks, and before Mr Skopeček takes the floor, Mr Jiří Kobza has made a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. On that list of reservations put forward by the Prime Minister, I would like to remind you of one more reservation that I have, and that is that although I have carefully looked into the budget, I have not found a single euro cent that comes from any savings that the European Commission would like to save on its enormous insatiable administrative apparatus. On the contrary, he wants to feed him even more. So I think that our message should be absolutely clear in this regard, and the message to the European Commission should be: if you want more money, save yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u9	I thank my colleague Kobza for his point of view and for keeping time on the point of fact. Before I give the floor to my colleague Faltýnek, I state two apologies to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, my colleagues Benešík, from 16.00 to 1645 hours he accepts the Ambassador of Georgia, and my colleague Výborný for working reasons will not be 16.00 to 17.30. Now, Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek, with a factual remark. A colleague of Mr. Skopeček is ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u10	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I did not want to respond and launch a technical debate here, which would be very long, on the subject of the reduction of agricultural subsidies within the European Union. I was here about seven, eight years ago when the terms of this current programming period were discussed, then as a representative of the Agricultural Chamber and farmers. And then it turned out that after a common argument of about 13 states, where, of course, gros played former post-socialist states in this discussion, which basically said that they didn't want to see this ceiling, because it has only one goal, and it has to be admitted here. It's here again, on the table again. Unfortunately, people who read it in the papers and are not directly involved in the debate do not understand. And the target is simple. The old 15 produces several times as much food as they consume at home. For example, Holland, Belgium, Denmark produces five to eight times more pork than they consume themselves. We as the Czech Republic unfortunately thanks to the policy set up from previous years, but I do not want to go back to that, so the Czech Republic is fifty percent of its own needs and 50 percent imports. And the goal of the old 15 is a very simple thing: simply limit production in these post-communist states and import their surplus and their food. That's the only goal. And as far as the ceiling is concerned -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u11	Mr President, I have no choice but to take your word for it, because you have made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u12	Well, I'm gonna turn myself in one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u13	Then sign in properly, please. So now I will ask my colleague Skopeček to be patient because he has not endured the tension of the situation, and my colleague Benešík has applied before he apologizes, to make a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard a word here about the insatiable, rampant European apparatus in the European Commission. I have a million six reservations to the European Commission, perhaps a million seven reservations. But the administration of the European Union costs about 6 percent or up to 6 percent of the total budget. I think that no Czech office spends as much on administration as the European Commission or the institutions of the European Union. And imagine that huge money is put into interpretation and translation, because, of course, everything is interpreted and translated from and into all the official languages of the European Union. So I can blame the European Commission and all institutions for anything and blame them for it on the European Committee, but I think that 6% is not enough to call the apparatus greedy. A number of institutions in the Czech Republic could learn how to save taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u15	I thank my colleague Benešík for keeping time on the point of fact, and President Faltýnek has applied to one more factual point. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u16	Thank you for the floor. So I'd finish it. The current position of the government on the question of ceiling is the same as that of the previous government, where the Minister of Agriculture was present Marian Jurečka. So the position is exactly the same and it is not only the position of the Czech Republic, it is the position of V4, ad one, and it is the position of other states within the European Union. At this point, I don't know exactly if these states are ten or eleven. In the past period, when the trialogue debate took place within the European Union, those states were thirteen, and the Czech Republic was not the leader in this debate, but it was Germany. It was Germany that didn't want a mandatory ceiling, and it was Italy, and it was Great Britain. Unfortunately, Great Britain no longer participates in this debate. So much for lighting up a situation where, unlike you, through Mr President-Dear colleagues, I really attended the debate at the level of the agricultural committee chairmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give the floor to Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, I state two apologies received, from 16.30 to 19 pm, Mr Petr Beitl and from 17 to 19 pm, Mr Jan Farský. Now, my colleague Ferjenčík, with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u18	Thank you for the floor. However, you also sat in the previous government, Mr President, through Mr President. Agrofert lobbies consistently and lobbied very consistently even at a time when you were not yet in politics. And I just think that this policy is wrong, and that if we're going to get money for cohesion policy, I see room in the agricultural sector above all in the ceiling of those payments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A colleague of Mr. Skopeček, who is ready for his performance, responded. It is the last one entered into the debate so far. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'll get back to the matter, namely the fiscal framework. I must say, in this case, I have to agree with most of the things the Prime Minister has said here, except agriculture. We're discussing the material we're discussing today after about a third interruption. There's been a lot of debate here. That's why I'm going to limit myself to the main arguments I've already made. For us, the budget is too large, especially considering that one of the relatively large countries is leaving. In our view, the European Union should focus on savings, not just on finding new resources. Another problem, the serious one, for us is that the European Union wants to introduce its own resources. In particular, the consolidated corporate tax base is a problem for us. But also the trading of emissions charges and waste management charges are things that we disagree with. And it is precisely the way that slow, slow steps we take from the European Union as the cooperation of national states to that transnational level towards a superstate that has its own resources, our own taxes. For us, it would be better to increase national contributions than to introduce any own resources. But we say that in this case, the European Union should focus primarily on savings. Another problem for us is our efforts to make the use of money conditional on the rule of law. We think it might be exploitable. We see how these things are taking place in the current European reality, and I also see nothing positive in it. I also agree that this current Commission is in too much of a hurry. We could see this both at the level of the European Committee and on our trips to the European Parliament. Indeed, the pressure of the current Commission to adopt the financial framework and budgets for the years ahead is enormous. That doesn't fill me with too much confidence either. And I would be very much in favour of approving the final version of the budget, presenting and supporting the new Commission, which will reflect the current mood in Europe more and reflect the results of the European elections. Otherwise, Mr President, I would still like to enter into a detailed debate, because I have read the resolution on Hungary during the first debate. Let us remember that we opened this point when the European Parliament approved the prosecution of Hungary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u21	Thank you, my colleague Skopečka. I have two applications with priority rights, but I have three factual points - Mr Benešík, Mr Vrecionová and Mr Jurečka. Mr. Benešík will be the first to make a point of fact. So I'm registering the Prime Minister's application... and now the order. The first was a colleague of Michálek and then a colleague of Farský. I will note a detailed debate with my colleague, Skopečka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u22	Mr Vice-President, I would like to emphasise very strongly that the European Committee has, by a large majority, opposed the possibility of introducing the European Union's own revenue, and that the House should know, after a very thorough debate. We do not think that the European Union and the European Commission should, in particular, have their own revenue. The national element is supposed to be preserved there. However, it is also important to say that if this should be different, if the European Commission, in turn, should have its own revenue, then all states must agree to it. It is a matter that would fundamentally alter parameters. And as far as I know, there's resistance to this. So the debate about the fact that the European Commission, in turn the Union, has its own revenue, is a bit odd, because at least the Czech Republic, as far as I know, has a negative attitude towards this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u23	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, and now Mrs Vrecionová also with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u24	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. I would just like to respond, through Mr President, to the words of Mr Faltýnek on this ceiling. Firstly, I firmly believe that the Czech Republic has currently chosen a very bad negotiating strategy. She suits someone, but we can pay very much for her if we insist on a splash. Because at the moment, it is actually us and Slovakia. It's not entirely true that the whole V4. Poland has a completely different structure of agriculture. During the last programming period, Germany lobbied, which had a problem with the GDR, because it had a similar structure to those of the great plans that we and Slovakia had. Great Britain is gone, and Germany has already solved its problem. And if we insist on it this way, we'll lose the cut money if we don't offer another option. The fact that we import pork is true, but there are also other agricultural commodities that we export. I think it's okay. And, of course, support in animal production is appropriate, but not in this form. In addition to our large, wide-ranging homelands, it turns out that at the moment, for example, when we have a problem with drought, we are paying very much. And it would help to separate them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u25	Thank you, Mrs Vrecionová, for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Marian Jurečka's point of view. Before accessing the microphone, my colleague Čižinský apologizes from 16.30 to the end of the day. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I confess that when I listened to the Prime Minister's words and looked into the materials for this House press that we have at our disposal as Members, I confess that I am a little embarrassed. According to what is written here in the position of the government of the Czech Republic, it is significantly different than the Prime Minister of this government, who has de facto been buying the material here and saying how much reservation it has on this material and how critical it is. When I look at the position of government on individual points, it basically always starts with the words Czech Republic is ready, the Czech Republic welcomes and so on. So it would be good for either the Prime Minister to read what he is presenting here as Members or to keep those statements in line. So much de facto comment. By the way, the Prime Minister here spoke of having one particular priority. The material itself says at least three priorities. It's marked in bold on page 17 here. However, about the debate that opened up here on the question of ceiling. It's not exactly black and white. There's one thing that needs to be mentioned here. I'll mention that for the colleagues who opened this place. The proposal, as it was in the original first proposal, amounted to EUR 60,000 of the ceiling under the first pillar of direct payments. I just want to mention this here for everyone that if such a border were accepted for the Czech Republic, this applies to all farms without distinction of legal personality. And we're talking about hectares, about 255 hectares and more at that farm. So even for these farms, which we have quite a lot in the Czech Republic. I know a large number of family farmers who have grown from the order of units or tens of hectares over the past 25 years to the size of several hundred hectares. So please make a nice distinction between the question of ceilinging, which, if it should be, should be in some way taking into account the specifics of the Czech Republic. And these are really different from somewhere in Slovenia or some other smaller Member States, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u27	Thank you for not exceeding the time in some way dramatically. We now have the priority right of Mr Michálek and Mr Farský. First, the chairman of the Pirate Party MP's club. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, let me comment on the issue of the consolidated corporate tax base, the CCCTB, which the government writes about on page 17 and which has already been mentioned here. We are constantly faced with the big problem here that some states are simply, in terms of tax legislation in the European Union and corporate tax, black passengers. For example, Malta, the Netherlands, Ireland, Luxembourg and, in some cases, Austria. The LuxLeaks scandal, from which thousands of documents have escaped, showed that the largest corporations in Europe pay taxes from one to three percent. So I'm wondering how we're supposed to explain to all these employees or entrepreneurs that corporations, the biggest ones that can do it through various special deals with these states, so they pay 1-3 percent, and they have to pay high corporate taxes here with a standard tax base. [[16.30 hours]] It bothers me very much that in the European Union, we look like we are fighting tax havens outside the borders of the European Union. The European Union even has a list of tax havens outside the European Union, yet right in the heart of the European Union, in those states, tax havens are being run. And unfortunately, it is. And I wonder how we're gonna deal with this because the problem here is big. For example, it is noted that Apple paid 0,005% on corporate tax thanks to these machinations. Apple in Ireland. And it was just used by a whole bunch of companies. I think that this is a major problem, and if we do not at European level try to establish some minimum limits on what taxes must be paid in the European Union, then, of course, those big companies will do business here, they will use our market, and when it comes to paying taxes, they will always move to a country that will offer them a tax haven. We just can't keep it if we have a state in competition, like Malta, the Netherlands, Ireland, where they might give it 1%. Even tax cuts won't help. Of course, I support tax reductions, but we cannot reduce it by completely abolishing taxes. The way the government's gonna deal with this, I wonder. And I would very much like the Minister to inform us of some comprehensive information on how the government will address this fundamental problem, because the Czech Republic is coming in this case - it is also estimated at tens of billions of crowns per year. I would be very interested, and I would be very grateful if the Secretary of State can process the answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u29	I thank the chairman of the pirate party club, Michálek, and I am just saying that we interrupted the debate when Minister Schillerová spoke when she last explained the questions. Now, a colleague of Farský with priority rights, then with priority rights, the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u30	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last time I mentioned the position of the STAN club to put a stop to subsidies - it remains the same. We consider this to be one of the steps that will lead to the recovery of the Czech landscape, to ensure that it does not really line up, as has already been started in the 1950s, so that it does not line up into big hunts and big businesses, and that the funds that are being earned remain as far as possible in the regions. Because it is natural that if a company works on hundreds of thousands of hectares, then it has one seat within the Czech Republic and all the middle management for which they also provide livelihoods, it is usually concentrated in Prague or the surrounding area, which I wish Prague, but at the same time I do not wish it to those regions that lose such significant funding. And not only this year it also showed that the landscape that is managed by this large-field large-scale business management, so it also does not have very high soil quality in the finals, the soil is hugely degraded, it is unable to absorb as much water as it was years ago, and at the same time there is significant erosion and the quality of the ground water is getting worse and soil retention is decreasing. And that's something you could almost call looting that land, because that's something we really shouldn't be taking advantage of our offspring. This is the moment for which we will support the reduction of agricultural subsidies, because the trend that has been set here, and the one that works actually does not lead to healthy soil, healthy water or healthy business. It leads to a concentration of wealth that could benefit the whole Czech Republic. The second point I would like to comment on is the defence budget. It was said here that perhaps we were fulfilling our obligations, or we would soon be fulfilling our obligations in 2024. That promise is repeated, postponed, and we're still not fulfilling our obligations. When joining NATO, we made a commitment to give 2% of our GDP to defence and security. We're giving something around 1%, and although the nominal amount is growing, given the growth of the economy, the percentage is more or less the same. I totally respect and understand that the government doesn't want to put these funds in weapons programs, weapons, but let's try to open it up and see that security isn't just about how many cannons, tanks, planes, or bullets ready to defend. Security today is a question of how educated we will have the population. How we will have a good understanding that people will be given a high-quality education in higher education, which will then oblige them to serve in the military for a few years and maybe they are in the fields that are lacking in our society and are missing in the military and for security, whether it be a question of medical professionals, or it will be a question of IT experts, cyber security, an area that really needs substantial help in the future, and it is a battlefield where there are duels taking place today, and there we are weak. And this is the opportunity to set up another military college, open it for example - and I will be specific - in those socially complex regions, such as in northern Bohemia, to build it peacefully on a green meadow and invest in this part of the security of the Czech Republic. We can also use the funds for science and research, something that, when invested in science and research in the defence sector, the security sector, of course, also benefits in the finals in the private sector and civilian life. These are areas that, at least from my point of view, we are not yet using far from what we could use. We would strengthen the Czech Republic, make the Czech Republic rich and increase security, in fulfilling our international commitments to which we volunteered. These are two topics, and I would not like to repeat that we are fulfilling 1% of GDP as a contribution to defence and security, that we are doing our duty. It's not like that. We have committed ourselves to 2%, and I dare say that, depending on how quickly the percentage coverage is growing there, we will not be able to fulfil our commitment in 2024. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u31	Thank you, Mr Farský. Mr. Prime Minister is registered with priority rights, but his party colleagues, Mr. Pražák and Mr. Volný, will overtake him with a factual remark. First, my colleague David Pražák. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u32	Thank you. Good afternoon. I would like to thank Mr. former Minister Jurečka for saying these few sentences about the cropping, and explaining some things. I would just like to add that the size of farms in the Czech Republic is 133 ha, or 130 ha. If you think it's going to go down to the average of the European Union, to 16 ha, it's really not going to be. I really don't, and don't believe what anyone peeks at. And one more thing, through Mr President, to Mr Farský. Yesterday we had the Regional Council of the Liberec Region, where we discussed three hours of ceilinging, possibility, impossibility, even with your colleagues. You were invited there. I understand there weren't any cameras, but I don't know why you're expressing yourself to something that we could have discussed elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u33	I thank Mr Pražák. Now Mr Volný, also with a factual remark. [[Unintelligible.]] You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u34	My colleagues, my colleague, I don't know if I heard correctly, but I think I listened very carefully to my colleague Farský, so I think you'll be right. A colleague of Farský here said that he would support the ceiling and that it simply was unacceptable for him to accumulate assets that could serve all. I would like all of us in the Chamber of Deputies to be aware, and I hope that citizens will also hear that Mr Farský is essentially calling for new collectiveization, new nationalization and new land reform, which means, let us scatter the big ones, divide it up so that everyone can benefit from it. So please, farmers, peasants, who are trying to work on some fields bigger than 16 ha, beware. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a colleague of Farský. A colleague Benešík will prepare himself, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u36	Thank you. I was invited to yesterday's meeting, I duly apologized because I also had a working meeting in Prague, so I did not attend. And who was involved, I'm sure the organizers also heard that apology. I really don't call for collectiveization. I may have said that in a nutshell, but maybe I didn't say it exactly enough, and it requires a concretation. Just when we're talking about the need to support the countryside, the need to promote jobs, there are rumors that we should subsidize businesses, businesses to be open there, to keep social life there, so the journey is quite simple. If funds remain in these regions through businesses employing people there, then rural renewal will naturally take place without the need to pour further subsidies, only with meaningful guidance on the current subsidies. That's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Benešík, a point of fact. A colleague, Ferjenčík, will be prepared to make a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As far as our defence budget and commitments to the North Atlantic Alliance are concerned, this is indeed a matter of the Czech budget, a matter of the Czech Republic's budget. This has nothing to do with the European Union. The fact that we spend about half of what we have committed ourselves in our own defense is true. It will probably take some time to fix this, because citizens of the Czech Republic, if they really need something from the state, it is security. But as far as the budget of the European Union and the programmes financed by the European Union are concerned, it also remembers science, research and innovation in the defence industry. So this is a matter that has something to do with what we're discussing. On this, too, the House's Committee on European Affairs has expressed itself very positively. We really think that the funds that are intended for science, research and innovation at European level could to some extent be and should be directed to the defence industry, where, for example, the Czech Republic has its own tradition, has its own know-how, and Czech companies and research centres can benefit from it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ferjenčík's factual remark, then Mr Peksa, and I have signed up with the Prime Minister and Mr Jurečka's prior right in a proper application. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u40	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to stand up for my fellow Farský, because I would like to remind you that the coalition with the Communists has YES, not the STAN movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Mikuláš Peksa, also with a factual remark. [[Mr. Birke from the bench shouts, "Sandokan, Sandokan."]] You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u42	Thank you. I just wanted to follow up on my previous speaker, who mentioned joint defense expenses here. It is true that, according to European Commission figures, about 30 percent of the Member States' defence budgets exit through the window because we are unable to reconcile research and armament policy. This should change. I certainly welcome the fact that the European budget remembers this and tries to move towards savings in this area instead of another inefficient waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with priority rights Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Andrej Babiš. A colleague of Marian Jurečka will be ready. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u44	Thank you. I would only react very briefly to some of my fellow Members' speeches. Perhaps Mr Jurečka did not hear that I said that for the first time the Czech Government had several priorities. In the past, resorts have always argued about cohesion and agriculture. I said we'd have more priorities, maybe we've got four, five, six, multiple. And for each priority, we'll have a different ally. And here I am as at the European Council, there is no difference. With regard to tax havens, I agree with you, colleague Michálek. But you have forgotten that any tax change requires the consent of all Member States. That is why it took us four and a half years to push for a single change in the history of the Czech Republic in the European Union, thanks to my fierceness. Four and a half years! And I got out and I said, "Yeah, like you said here." [[Nesroz.]] You're right. But for that to happen, everyone would have to agree, so logically, they won't agree. And today, of course, there is a tendency in Europe to make decisions about tax matters not unanimous, that is, everyone, but to make it majority. This would, of course, be a disaster for us, because we would soon have taxes here, both in Germany and in other states, and thus completely lose our competitiveness. So I agree with you. But you're asking what we're doing. I asked you that, too. The European Union, within its Member States, does not know the term tax havens, even if we know what a béwèko is, as Ireland does, as Luxembourg does. Of course we know, but maybe the secretary will come out and tell you. Because you're not telling the truth that tens of billions are leaking. They don't escape. We used the EET inspection report and other things to collect a lot of taxes, clouds, which is why we have to retire, to raise teachers' salaries, and so on. And we've reduced the VAT Gap from 19 percent to almost half. And, of course, the European Commission is always late, always two years. We only have VAT Gap 2016. [[The Treasury Secretary speaks from the newsstand table.]] So we're down to 14.19. I agree with you, but it's absolutely unrealistic, because none of these states would logically disagree. We agreed and I supported the French President on corporate taxation such as Google and Facebook. Yes, there's 5 billion there. The euro and we support it. Firms here in Europe do not pay taxes and do business in the Czech Republic. We support it, hopefully other states will support it. As far as agriculture is concerned, I don't want to comment. I wonder what people are doing here, they don't understand it at all, but they're talking about it - unbelievable. If I don't understand something, I don't comment on it, but okay. And to that defense one more time. Try to understand, President Trump understood, Mr. Benešík and Mr. Farský. He got it. The Czech Republic will increase defense spending by 50 per cent from 2013 to 2019, even if GDP is increased by 0.14. So if Belgium has 0.9 percent and that 0.9 percent is 4.5 billion. $2, so my friend Jüri Ratas, the Estonian Prime Minister, is 2 percent, but he only has 500 miles. dollars, he doesn't even have planes. That's the debate, the nonsense, the percentages, the GDP, that's what I've been talking about. And President Trump understood that. He reacted - I have 4 percent. But he's got it all figured out. What he's telling us, buy American weapons, be a lower balance, and I'll be happy. I understand that. Under our former coalition government, we are increasing this government. [[16.50 hours]] I think this government is trying to get out of all our shopping nonsense, the last time a DOD commission compared a Swedish prototype to an Israeli radar that's in combat every day. And the Israeli radar was cheaper. But I guess the committee felt like we were some sort of Swedish radar rehearsal here, that's different. [[unintelligible]] Now even the police are investigating. Such absurdities, yes. So we want to fundamentally change that. And now we were asking the Slovák, and we were sitting in Brno yesterday, defense ministers, premieres, chiefs of general staffs. The Slovák bought the Black Hawk, they bought the planes, we rent it, so we're having fun now. The Czech arms industry is starting to work very well, it exports, it produces, the fatal mistake after the revolution that we said that we actually don't need to produce weapons right now. In 1936, we were the world's largest arms manufacturer. So we're dealing with this, please, so don't say we're not fulfilling our obligations. And try to understand! If this Trump guy gets it, you might as well understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u45	I thank the Prime Minister for his speech and there are four more factual points and then the Minister's priority right. So, first of all, factual points. Mr Jiří Kobza's first factual comment, Mikuláš Peksa will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, members of the government, dear colleagues, allow me to speak as probably one of the very few practicing farmers in this House, small-time farmers, and also as a man who has been in the military and knows something about the military. Not enough, but still. As far as cropping agricultural subsidies is concerned, it's an absolute superstition that this cropping will save something. Most farms that work in the Czech Republic are larger farms. And if you really want to cut off these farms' livelihoods, put a stop to the subsidies. Because without the subsidies, as set up by current agriculture in the Czech Republic and Europe, they simply will not survive. And what you will eat afterwards, colleagues, I would really like to know, through Mr President. And as for the defense industry and the construction of the army. Here is still a basic dialogue, as I understand from previous contributions, between the commitments of somebody somewhere and the costs of self-defense of the Czech Republic. And I consider those to be a priority. That is why, of course, we see the issues of common defence of the European Union as cooperation between the armies of national states, not the creation of a super army, which is an entirely illusionary project that has no chance of working. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u47	I thank my colleague Kobza for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Peksa, Mr Stanjura will be prepared with a factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u48	Thank you. Prime Minister, I would just like to say two things that seem important to me. I'm not a fan of recounting involvement in defense through money, because I don't think it's definitely the only telling figure. However, if we approach the logic that instead of counting the proportion of GDP, we are actually counting the absolute amount, we are going to work towards the fact that the Czech Republic in life cannot live up to what larger countries are involved with, whether it is Germany, whether it is the United States or others. The second quite important thing. Prime Minister, please hand over your phone number to your Members on the Committee on European Affairs, because they do not know to support the taxation of large corporations such as Google and Facebook. They need to explain. Please stress to them that this is your policy, your government policy, and that they should support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Stanjura, with a factual remark, will be prepared with a factual remark by Mr Benešík. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact. Before I give you my word, I'll ask the House for peace to be heard. If you are having discussions other than the European Union's financial framework for the years 2021 to 2027, please be in the foyer. Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u50	I wanted to talk to the Prime Minister, and I'm afraid I can't see him now. No, he's not here. It's okay. The first remark has already been made by my previous speaker. Compare absolute amounts or proportional amounts is absolutely pointless and our allied commitment is 2 percent of GDP. It's that simple. Not in billions of crowns, but in percentage of GDP, and it would be somewhere between 110 and 115 billion. The Prime Minister here quite accurately described purchases at the Ministry of Defence, including commissions that prefer a prototype to a functioning radar, etc. Such a simple question. Who's been in charge of the Defense Department for five years? Which political party or political movement has been running the defense department for five years? Isn't that the YES movement? It is not, says one member of the ANO movement. Well, he also needs the phone to find out who's in charge of the resort. However, in order not to be completely critical, I would like to say from the Prime Minister's first speech something which we certainly support and which, in my view, should also be explicitly reflected in our resolution, but which should be prepared by the government and not by the opposition, and that is as much freedom as possible for the Member States to use European subsidies. We know much better what programs to write and which we don't. And that period is extraordinarily long, seven years, and we also need our hands free to be able to move money from the program to the program over the seven years. Whoever met the procedure was our government, but also the government of the YES movement, so they know how inflexible it is and how complicated it is. And we will certainly support efforts to limit soft projects at the expense of hard projects. I'm sure you do. I'm not a fan of conferences either. You put up two flags, you hand out bread, you make a list, preferably how to re-qualify people, or how to employ people when you find out that there is no unemployment in our country in principle, but we have conferences and we have European money to do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u51	Mr President, thank you, you have been signed up for a point of fact. Now, Mr Benešík's factual remark, if there is no further, in that case, with the right of priority, Minister Schillerová. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I think the Prime Minister and I really agree that this isn't just about the total amount, but it's also about how we're going to spend the money. That's what we always say. But maybe if the Minister of Defence came out here, he would tell us how the Czech army is prepared and how long it is able to defend this republic in the event of an assault, God forbid. It's just that it's not just the money, it's just that we have really provenly large reserves in defense of our country. That's our defense, that's our country, that's our people. So talk about it, we have some commitments... We have commitments, but that's collective defense. And that collective defense is just cheaper than just relying on ourselves. That's the point. We in this collective defense, we have big reserves there, and we are unable to defend ourselves fully, and we are unable to meet these commitments. And as for the funds spent and unexploded. I voted last time in the House to increase costs effectively, virtually. money for self-defense. But it's the YES movement that the Ministry of Defence has been running for the fifth year! So when the Prime Minister - who's already in the third government, he's in the third government, he's been here five years - says he started working on it... If I'd acted like that at City Hall after five years of complaining I'd say I was doing something, people would have carried me out in their teeth!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u53	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more factual comment from my colleague Kobza, and then perhaps it will come to the Minister's turn. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna take this very short. I just wanted to remind you that we're celebrating an anniversary where we've also relied on collective protection, and we've finally stayed on our own. That means, first and foremost, we have to rely on ourselves and then on collective defense, because in the reverse guard, we always end up being alone again. So this lesson from history must certainly not be ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u55	Thank you for your point of view. Have a good evening, everyone. And please, Mrs. Secretary Schillerová with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I won't be long. Before I move on to the tax havens that President Michálek asked about, I would just like to remind myself - the Prime Minister said so, but I don't think it should fit in. It has been four and a half years since the Minister of Finance Babiš, today's Prime Minister, began a debate on the topic of the general reverse charge in Luxembourg. And it has been four and a half years since I was in Luxembourg today that all the countries of the European Union unanimously approved our proposal. It's been hours, weeks, months of work for the entire technical team at all levels. But the result is that even a small country like the Czech Republic will push through its proposal. It is the first legislative proposal since the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union, which the Czech Republic has enforced on the European Commission so that it has promoted it further. It has been a long journey since this proposal was approved, a long journey to this day. We had to go through a whole series of meetings. The biggest opponent was France, which is actually the bastion and cradle of VAT, then other countries that we have dealt with. Yesterday I had a bilateral meeting with the Minister of Finance of Romania, who wanted to change the terms at the last minute, which, of course, would have buried the reverse charge forever in the ruin of history. All tax changes, as the Prime Minister said, want unanimity. That's why it lasted four and a half years, and the result was crowned with success, and I greatly appreciate it. I came back in a very elevated mood. Well, you'll be back on the ground right now, so I'm back on the ground, but I don't want it to fit in. Because it is a huge success of the Czech Republic, a small country. And everyone in the European Union, on the Ecofin, where I was, i.e. a regular meeting of the European Union Finance Ministers, this is how they felt. Now, about your question, Mr. Chairman. You have opened up the issue of tax havens, but the issue consists of a number of problems. If we say tax havens as such, I can't imagine - and that is why I started with reverse charge because I wanted to demonstrate that it wants unanimity, as the Prime Minister said - I can't imagine that we could, for example, Ireland, a sovereign country, we as the Czech Republic dictate how to do taxation. And you know that maybe Ireland is now having a dispute with Apple and is imposing tax savings of 13 billion on it. EUR. But we can, and we have done this at reverse charge, very effectively come and support proposals that will be on a specific platform. And even if we're talking - and it's very connected - about so-called. digital tax, i.e. taxing companies such as Google, such as Facebook and others, so in such a case we can be very actively heard and heard. And even here, the European Union's land is not enough, we need an OECD platform here, because, as you know, many of these companies are located outside the European Union. So we are very actively involved in all the debates on the introduction of the so-called. digital taxes. We are even open to the debate that France came up with, which wants a more short-term solution in the form of such a special turnover tax. There, of course, we are still waiting for parameters, because it will be more complicated, but it is a short-term quick solution before a definitive solution is adopted. However, I am not open, and I say this openly here, that, if any, such a debate would lead to this becoming a source of, for example, revenue from the budget of the multiannual financial framework, or the budget of the European Union. So I want the funds flowing into the budget of the Czech Republic. Another problem that is related to the question you have opened is the issue - because it is a very broad topic, cannot be simply said tax havens and what you will do about it - the so-called issue. CCCTB or CCCB, it is related, it is a tax base and then it is a tax redistribution within the European Union. There is a position of the Czech Republic in the long term, I would say, negative is a strong word in diplomatic speech, but very modest. We've been debating the common tax base for several years now, and the debates, no doubt, as I see it, the speed and the necessary unanimity in these tax matters will continue for years. And there I can't imagine that we could ever agree, at least if I had the competence, with an example, škodovka paid a tax to Germany and wouldn't pay a profit in the Czech Republic. And we have long held that direct tax, income tax, corporate tax, if you wish, is a tax that should remain fully in national legislation, unlike an indirect tax that is harmonised. And that has to do with your next question, what are you gonna do about it? And I say, how can we dictate to Irsko what taxes they will have? But we can work on a common project, on a common platform very actively, and that is the need for a digital tax. Of course, I've spoken here several times, and I'll repeat it again, about the so-called. aggressive tax planning. That's the amount you mentioned here. And she's considerably lower. I have OECD studies and other platforms. The amount lost by the Czech Republic from the point of view of the so-called aggressive tax planning is estimated to be between 5 and 10 billion, and this is when companies actually spend money on themselves illegally through various marketing studies, various similar projects, which have not previously been subject to proper taxation, i.e. they are not up to the taxable profit. And that's where I've been briefing here several times, and you've approved a whole series of measures here. We will start discussing the 2019 package immediately in a very short time and there we have other income tax measures, so-called. ATAD, which is related to a number of measures implemented by the Czech Republic to combat aggressive tax planning. And we are one of the first countries in this implementation. If we're not the first, then maybe we're the second, but we're certainly not later than the third. So we're totally active in these implementation efforts. And how many times do we only have a year to implement it? The classic ATAD, which has the implementation deadline of the year, was approved sometime in December. And when you look at the legislative process, and sometimes you ask me about it in other directives, you tell me why we are already at the implementation deadline, and I have shown you here several times: that's when the proposal came, then it went into internal commentary, into external, etc., as the government's legislative rules impose it. So we're very, very active. That's pretty much all I had to say about it. Of course, from the point of view of corporate tax and potential evasion, we are not only waiting for the implementation of European directives, but also introducing national measures. It was in 2016, I believe, an annex to the tax return on corporate tax for so-called. associated persons who have brought in the state budget due to the activities of the Financial Administration considerable billion-dollar revenues. And in the package that we are going to start discussing for 2019, we have another detail where legal entities will have to give us where dividends are going, to which specific countries, so that the Financial Administration can actually target its control activities more targeted. Of course, I will provide you with precise figures and supporting documents, if you wish, in accordance with Section 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u57	I, too, thank you, and now with a factual remark by President Michálek. So, please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u58	Thank you for the floor. I thank the Minister for making a very competent statement on this. I think, of course, that we should also accentuate the political component. Of course, we as the Czech Republic are constantly under pressure. We're still being threatened to stop subsidies to the Czech Republic if we don't do this or that, and the pressure just exists here. And now we're pretending that there's nothing we can do about it. I understand it's taking a long time, it's a good thing something's gotten through. I don't want to judge whether it's for the benefit or not. But I think this is one of the key things where we would find those allies in the European Union, because in short, those countries that don't have their overseas territories or which don't have that part - an island or something - that serves to reduce the tax base for those who can afford it, the larger corporations, so they will probably be more than just the Czech Republic. I'll take one small correction. I believe that the Czech Republic is not a small state, but at least a central state in the European Union. [[17.10 hours]] I think that the digital tax you were talking about, Madam Secretary, is not an entirely sufficient solution because companies, such as IKEA, involved in these activities, do not necessarily have a digital scope, as if they were some digital services such as Facebook or Google, and that we really need to focus on what is going on with their corporate profits. I don't know what the VAT Gap you were talking about has to do with it. This concerns value added tax. I had in mind, in particular, the leaks that occur in corporate taxes. So in this respect, I would ask and take advantage of the offer that has been made here on your part to provide us with more detailed information, and, if necessary, I would ask the Prime Minister to continue his efforts to raise this issue at the meetings of the EU institutions to make it work, as has been done with this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u59	I thank you for the precise respect of the time and will now invite Mr Jurečka to the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u60	Thank you. I have yet to sign up, because some things in fact cannot be said completely, on the Margo discussed common agricultural policies and the ceiling. I'd like to give you a little bit of insight into the facts and context here. When you look at the development of the average size of farms in the Czech Republic, it was still around 2010 at 155 hectares. When I joined the Department of Agriculture in 2014, the average size of the farms was 148 hectares, today we are at an average size of 130 hectares. In the Czech Republic, the average size of farms has fallen in recent years. When you look at all the other countries in the EU, except perhaps two, the average size of all the other farms grows. This is simply due to the pressures of globalisation, where farmers logically merge, associate, create joint cooperatives in small countries, or, unfortunately, also naturally disappear. However, when we look at the situation in the Czech Republic, I spoke to a member of the Commission and President of DG Agri Phil Hogan on this issue. I described the development in 1948 and the development after 1990, even the story that I have from my own family, when I grew up on a small private family farm, which also after handing over to my brother's parents slowly grows with its size, not dizzyly, but grows, so I explained it to him and he said: Yes, I understand your position. Someone here mentioned from my colleagues that we are perhaps the only ones besides Slovakia. I must say that in the countries of former East Germany, all the federal states have the same position as we do. The Saxon Minister of Agriculture, when I spoke to him last year, said, "We support your position against mandatory ceiling." And now I'm getting to the point. It would be possible to overcome the mandatory ceiling if the Commission were to look at this through the optics: Let us look at the specifics of individual national states and set possible mandatory ceilings with regard to the average size. This means, let us distinguish here, for example, Slovenia, which has an average size of about 9 hectares, from the Czech Republic and let us put those boundaries at some intervals. However, no one heard this, and it slipped all the way to one border, which ranges from 60 to 100,000 euros. This is, of course, a problem for the Czech Republic. And now I'm not really looking at any of Agrofert's potential businesses. But if you look at the structure of agricultural production in the Czech Republic, and some of you were talking about the landscape, please be careful because it is the extent of agricultural production that affects the landscape. If there is no animal production, farmers simply will not grow crops, proteins and crops that they would use to feed livestock. And when I say it in the language of numbers, so in the current situation, if the ceiling were applied to the amount as it is today, and that is quite high, that is the limit of 1,150 hectares, so today this line, from which degressivity is applied now, concerns about 65 percent of the enterprises that have cows with milk production and more than 82 and 85 percent of the enterprises that have pig meat and poultry meat production. If that threshold were to apply to the EUR 100,000, at that point more than 75 per cent of milk producers in the Czech Republic and more than 90 per cent of pork and poultry producers. So that's what I'm saying for realizing the effects. If there's only going to be a mandatory ceiling here, but there's no telling what the bounds of the mandatory ceiling are, then it could just have fatal consequences for those of you who call after the ceiling, you wouldn't want it. However, I have to say here, the last time I spoke as an opposition member in April of this year informally with the head of DG Agri Phil Hogan, he said: I see it frankly so that mandatory austerity will simply pass through the European Parliament with high probability. However, we are prepared to look for ways to distinguish the farmer who has social responsibility, which means he has a higher share of employees per hectare or per unit, because we appreciate the one who tries to make more demanding production. If the Czech Republic sets good parameters in these negotiations, then the discussion on whether the mandatory ceiling and on which level exactly will no longer be significant, but it will be relevant to the specific setting. I'm sorry I kept you here a little bit longer, but I tried to explain the rational issue and the fact that the problems are simply not black and white, but they are much more related. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u61	I, too, thank you, and please now, with Mr Ferjenčík's factual comment and then with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u62	Thank you for the floor. If the government's position were to stand by the government's efforts to make the majority or the vast majority of our farmers reach EU funding, I don't have a problem with that. But the government's position is that it doesn't want a splash. And that's what we criticize. We are not fanatics that we would say that only farms run by one trader with one tractor should remain, but we do not see why Agrofert should receive more subsidies than taxes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u63	Thank you. Now, with Mr Jurečka's point of fact, and if necessary, less negotiations at the House plenary, which is not related to the item under discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u64	I'm sorry, and I'm saying the de facto point here because I forgot to say it in the previous post. And it would also be fair if the government in that position, when it already writes that it is refusing a compulsory ceiling, wrote the key thing that is mentioned in both government positions on the common agricultural policy, and also that the Czech government will actively promote the introduction of the payment of the first hectare. If these two things are mentioned in one sentence, then I think it's quite fair and it's balanced. But unfortunately it's there in this material that we have here today, this isn't there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u65	Thank you, and now, please, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u66	No prior rights, no one checked in. First I applied to the facts, then I found that two minutes to respond to the Madam Secretary's speech was not enough. I'll talk to the secretary. She said we were a small country three times. We're not! We're not! We are central countries within the EU. Small countries, these are tax havens. Look how powerful they are! Cyprus, Ireland, the Netherlands. I'm sure they're smaller countries, but they can. But I volunteered, and I'd like to get off to that flagship reverse charge. And here, unfortunately, I have to say, it's true that it's been pushing for four and a half years, and now we've pushed through it, but what I've missed is a national debate. This is the program element of the YES movement that has made it through, and I ask: why didn't you ask the others why you didn't discuss it with us? We see many risks there. Madam Secretary knows, so I'm sure it won't be new information for her. [[17.20 hours]] It's very complicated for small companies to charge and show reverse charge today. This has brought about a deterioration in the business environment and has brought more bureaucratic responsibilities. And I'm talking about the little ones and the medium ones. And the state is fighting VAT evasion, that's commendable, it has our support, but basically it transfers that duty to companies. Those companies are actually doing it for a living. At the same time, the state will give them no relief, such as reducing taxes. Nothing like that. Or, and you had it in the electoral program, Madam Secretary, that maybe we'd cut corporate social contributions. our job. [[Unintelligible]] Okay. So now we have approved the general reverse charge as a key point in the programme of the ANO movement, not the Czech Republic, because we never really had a debate about it so that we could see the pluses and the negatives. And my question is logically: What are we going to do about it in the Czech Republic? The suggestion that I lead him to the end, that it would be used in general, so de facto means the end of VAT, as we know it. Isn't that right? Why not? But such an essential proposal should be discussed. I mean, we know the limits of 100,000 today, one with reverse charge, one without. That's really bureaucratic. And I'm talking to the owners of small businesses. I'm talking to the accountants. It's not easy at all. But it was our flagship, and now we can expand. How and where? How much will it cost those companies? Isn't that the duty of the state to fight tax evasion? Yeah, it is. Then let's not pass it on to others. And if we get through this, let's make them feel better about something else, let's make it at least one big zero at the expense of those companies. And it won't. And the introduction of reverse charge in today's range was not zero in costs for companies. Maybe next time we can bring a VAT return to the Committee on Budgets, we can have a much more detailed debate on this. I wouldn't talk about it at this point, if it was the Secretary of State who said she was coming back with an elevated mood... But I don't like the fact that the program of one movement is posing as a Czech national interest... Madam Secretary can't respond, so don't be surprised. But I understand. I guess I didn't hear that. But that's how I understood from nonverbal communication that the Minister should no longer respond, and I can be longer. Then we're in no hurry. The basic question is, whose priority is this in the Chamber of Deputies - the General Reverse charge? Who's been communicating with these four and a half years? I agree with the description as it was. And what good will that do, and what will that mean for small businessmen, and what changes? When the ANO movement negotiates it for four and a half years, it must be thoughtful, now that it has passed, how it will translate into Czech legislation. I wonder before I start saying it's an amazing success. If we push for something, it may not be good yet. That doesn't have to be a good thing. We got a hit. I don't think we have a match because we've never had a proper debate about it. I don't remember any in the four and a half years that we'd have a proper debate about whether the general reverse charge is good or bad. Well, I'd like it if the secretary doesn't perform, so at least in a short time if she answers. Because, of course, it has something to do with the multi-annual financial framework. And the debate is somewhere else, but in negotiations within the EU, and the Minister will always support it, it is normal trade. We're gonna move over here, you're gonna let us have this. We were blocking VAT cuts on e-books to enforce reverse charge. At least this is how I read it from public sources from the Minister, then Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. That's normal. I'm not criticizing that. And it seems to me that all we can negotiate is a reverse charge, which I don't consider to be an amazing success, is just not enough. I think we can negotiate a lot more. And the Prime Minister talked about it. I've already commended him for that once. We should strive to have much greater freedom in dealing with European subsidies. And I said that last time, I don't know if it ever occurred to the government to try. If we had European subsidies only the difference between how much we send and how much we can draw. Why do we have to write projects for the money we're sending? If I send the crown and I can draw two and I have to do projects for two crowns, it seems pointless to me. All I need is a crown project to make it clear to everyone what I'm talking about. No, we're gonna send a crown there, and then we're gonna write a complex project to exhaust the crown, and at the same time we have to meet the terms and conditions, and one of my previous speakers was talking about it, and everyone's telling us, and if you don't approve the EIA, you don't get the crown. And if you don't pass the Civil Service Act, you won't get the crown. And if you don't approve of this... And I don't have time today, but when I look at the log, I've heard that many times here from various ministers of different governments to be fair. And sometimes we can say, that's it! And we're going to say if you don't approve of this, for example, that we're going to decide how many soft projects are going to be and how many aren't, so we can block it. Are we ready for this? Does the government want such a mandate from the Chamber of Deputies? I say for us, that's the mandate we're prepared to give the government to negotiate like this. But someone has to stand for that mandate, someone has to enforce it and try to enforce it. I don't think it's realistic to say that these soft projects would be nothing. We understand each other. But the fewer there will be percentages, the better for the Czech Republic and the Czech economy. This should be the key position of the Czech Government in the multiannual financial framework. Everything else is a low level. And even today's debate, but I would say that even the government's position has shrunk into the struggle to put up with agricultural subsidies. I don't want to make it ironic, or knock it down, or say who's right about the debate. But in all that volume, it's a small problem. Plus, somebody's already said it, we don't have a lot of allies there, and we might as well lose it. But we should try, Madam Secretary, to negotiate, and so far there is a chance of simplifying European subsidies so that we, as the Czech Republic, can freely load from the program into the programme. You have that experience of yours, like us, that you just need to do some relocation after two years. And what that means today, we all know. How inflexible it is, how difficult it is, how Brussels officials do not want to do it, because they know much better than the Czech Republic, whether we need to make trips or put it on industry. We know better than that. This should be the basic position for the multiannual financial framework. And I think that when the government comes to the Chamber of Deputies with such a proposal, it will certainly gain more than the constitutional majority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u67	Thank you. And now, please, with Mr Benešík's factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u68	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a little more complicated with the European budget revenue, because it is usually a percentage or something. So determining exactly how much we're going to give and how much we're going to get is just a problem, because Member States' contributions just count, for example. from imposed duties on goods from third countries and no one in advance knows how many e.g. The Czech Republic will choose at the club. So it's a little more complicated than that. I, too, am in favour of investing much more and directing European money into hard projects. And on the other hand, as the former mayor of the village today, I can say that there are a number of soft projects that deserve our attention, and it's not just that they eat bread, hand out pencils and print a bunch of paper that is then useless. We paid for the waste water treatment plant, the water treatment plant in Strání from European money, which is very important nowadays. The water management infrastructure we have, we didn't sell it and we run it. But soft projects, for example. to pay children in the first and second classes of English language teaching, where it is not compulsory, I think it is a very beneficial soft project. So let's be a little careful. It is not that all hard projects, that means infrastructure projects, are great and all soft projects, it means to e.g. education and such matters are bad. So let's make a little distinction. It's not all black and white.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u69	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. At this point in time, we have exhausted both the factual remarks and the written applications for the debate. Nor do I see any application for a general debate from the point of view, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. I ask the plaintiff and rapporteur if there is any interest in final words. It's not. In that case, I am opening up a detailed debate in which Peksa and Skopeček are joined. Mr Peks, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u70	Thank you for the floor. I note that I was unfortunately deleted, virtually. my application for a detailed debate was deleted for some reason in the general one, so here I will just reload what I wanted to load earlier. I would like the text to be included as the fifth item of the resolution proposed by the Committee on European Affairs: it calls for restrictions on subsidies paid to large business entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u71	Thank you. I now ask Mr Skopeček to read his proposal, which he has already announced in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u72	Yes, you remember well that we talked about this point and the subject of Hungary and the action against it, so I repeat and load the resolution in detail that the Chamber of Deputies considers the European Parliament's vote against the sovereign state of Hungary to be incorrect and unfortunate in terms of the activation of Article 7 of the Treaty of Lisbon. This procedure will only further deepen the ditches and distrust between the old and new Member States of the European Union. End of resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u73	Thank you. At this point, I don't have any more applications for the debate, so I think I'm gonna call everyone in the hall and ask if there's any interest in the final words before we proceed to the vote. Madam Secretary or rapporteur? Not interested. In that case, I will ask the rapporteur to guide us through the voting procedure. We'll wait a little while for the House to calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u74	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. So after the two interruptions of this point, we are getting to the vote, and I propose this procedure. I propose to adopt resolutions which are in the same wording as those adopted by the Committee on European Affairs, which you have in the Houses of the Press. I propose to vote on them as a whole, i.e. by one resolution. That means it's resolution 1 through 4. Furthermore, we would continue with the vote on resolution number 5 of Mr Peksa. The last vote would be item 6, motion for a resolution by Mr Skopeček. I will therefore read the motions for resolutions, points 1 to 4, which we should vote on with one resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u75	I'll first ask if anyone's suggesting something else for the procedure. Yes, I do. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u76	I will ask to vote on the resolutions that have been passed by the Committee on European Affairs, and we have them proposed, in particular, on the four points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u77	Please, rapporteur. Therefore, if no one has any other proposal or insists on the original version, we will vote first on the four points of the resolution separately and then on the other points proposed by Members of the plenary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u78	Order number one: The Chamber of Deputies notes the framework position of the Government of the Czech Republic of 12 and 18 June 2018 on the Communication from the Commission - Modern budget for the Union which protects, strengthens and impedes: the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021 to 2027, Council code 8353/18 on the proposal for a Council Regulation laying down the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021 to 2022, Council code 8354/18 on the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of the Union budget in the event of general shortcomings in the rule of law in the Member States, Council code 8356/18 on the proposal for a Council Decision on the system of the European Union's own resources, Council code 8357/18 on the proposal for a Council Regulation on methods and procedure for granting own resources from the common consolidated corporate tax base, the European Union emissions trading system and plastic packaging waste not recycled and on cash claims coverage measures, Council code 8358/18 on the proposal for a Council Regulation laying down implementing measures for the system of the European Union's own resources, Council code 8359/18 on the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulations (EC) No 1224/2009 and (EC) No 1224/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulations (EC) No 1224/2009 and (EC) No 1224/2009 and (EC) No 1224/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulations (EC) No 1224/2009 and (EC) No 1224/2009 of
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u79	Thank you for reading the resolution. I checked you all out during loading, so please log in with your cards. When the number of Members applied for and the Members have settled, which apparently happened, we will be voting. I'm opening the vote to see if we're aware. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 190, 148 Members and Members were enrolled, for 114, against 18. The resolution was adopted. I'd like another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u80	Resolution 2: The Chamber of Deputies rejects the proposed introduction of new European Union own resources.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u81	Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 191 149 Members and Members were enrolled, for 125, against 18. The resolution was adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u82	Resolution 3: The Chamber of Deputies recommends that additional funding options for the European Union budget be sought within the framework of the current setting by means of operational savings and optimization of the budgets of the institutions of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u83	Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 192 vote, 150 Members and Members were registered, for 148, against no one. The resolution was adopted. I ask for another resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u84	Resolution number 4: Chamber of Deputies notes Communication from the Commission - Modern budget for the Union protecting, strengthening and preventing: multiannual financial framework for the period 2021 to 2027, Council code 8353/18 Proposal for a Council Regulation laying down the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021 to 2027, Council code 8354/18 Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of the Union budget in the event of general shortcomings in the rule of law in the Member States, Council code 8356/18 Proposal for a Council Decision on the system of the European Union's own resources, Council code 8357/18 Proposal for a Council Regulation on methods and procedure for the provision of own resources from the common consolidated corporate tax base, the European Union emissions trading system and plastic packaging waste not recycled and on cash claims coverage measures, Council code 8358/18 Proposal for a Council Regulation laying down implementing measures for the system of the European Union's own resources, Council code 8359/18 a proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 and repealing Council Regulations (EC) No 1224/2009 and (EC) No 1224/2009, (EC) No 1224/2009 and (EC) No 1224/2009, (EC) No 1224/2009, (EC) No 1224/2009, (EC) No 1224/2009, (EC) No 1224/2009, (EC) No 1224/2009, (EC) No 1224/2009, (EC) No 1224/2009, (EC) No 1224/2009, (EC) No 1224/2009, (EC) No 1224/2009, (EC) No 1224/2009, (EC) No 1224/2009, (EC) No 1224/2009, (EC) No 1224/2009, (EC) No 1224/2009, (EC) No 1224/2009,
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u85	Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 193 vote, 152 Members and Members were enrolled, for 110, against 20. The resolution was adopted. I ask for another resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u86	Resolution No. 5 of Mr Peksa, as amended by: The Chamber of Deputies calls for restrictions on subsidies paid to large business entities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u87	Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? [[There's noise in the room.]] Please calm down! The number 194 voted for 152 Members and Members, for 47, against 65. The resolution was not adopted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u88	So and the last motion for a resolution by Mr Skopeček, as was said here in the detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u89	I would like to read the text of the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u90	The resolution reads: The Chamber of Deputies considers the European Parliament's vote against the sovereign State of Hungary to be a faulty and unfortunate one, in the sense of the activation of Article 7 of the Treaty of Lisbon. This procedure will only further deepen the ditches and distrust between the old and new Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-006-076.u91	Thank you and begin the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 195 vote, 153 Members and Members were enrolled, for 97, against 24. The resolution was adopted. Thank you. These were all the proposals; we will now still vote on the proposal as a whole. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. The number 196 voted 153 Members and Members, for 100, against 13. The motion was accepted. We have dealt with all the proposals, so thank you, Minister, thank you, and this is the end of the point. And now we're getting to the next fixed point, which was the point.
