ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u1	17. Proposal by Members of Ivan Bartoš, Jakub Michálek, Radek Holomčík and others for the Act amending Act No. 106/1999 Coll., on Free Access to Information, as amended, and Act No. 340/2015 Coll., on special conditions for the effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the register of contracts (the Act on the Register of Contracts), as amended /German press 50/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 50/1. Please let the press present... [[This is Mr. Kolářík.]] Let's make a statement, please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u2	I'm just here for the record. I voted against rejection, and I have a say in high school.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u3	And you're not questioning the vote, is that enough for the log? [[- Yes.]] Okay, yes. Thank you. I'll be back. prosit have Mr Jakub Michálek, Mr Jakub Michálek, present the proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly justify the House press 50, which concerns the amendment of the Act on the Register of Contracts and the amendment of the Act on Free Access to Information. The law deals with two basic circuits. Firstly, it responds to the Constitutional Court's decision, which expressed the question of whether companies controlled by the state as ČEZ are a compulsory entity under applicable laws. Secondly, it responds to the exception that applies to companies like ČEZ today with the publication of contracts. The Czech Pirate Party has run for elections with a view to a transparent state, with which citizens have elected us, and that is why we are promoting this here in the Chamber of Deputies. Gros of this proposal, in order to simplify this completely, is that ČEZ and all similar organizations that are owned or controlled by the State will publish contracts and provide information under the conditions laid down in the laws and, of course, legitimate exceptions are provided for in those laws. Let me now justify the proposal in more detail. According to the Parliamentary Institute, we have the position you have received. It is the information base No. 50. The proposed amendment strengthens the right to information from legal entities wholly or partly owned by the State or by public bodies. It specifies these issues in such a way that there is no dispute over the interpretation of the current regulation, and the proposed amendment does not interfere in any way with EU law. Its role is to raise citizens' awareness of the situation in those legal entities. The novel is very brief. If you look at her, there's only one page. It solves the fundamental problem that we have state-owned companies that do not publish contracts or provide information to citizens today in the contract register, although they manage property that is estimated to be some 600 billion. Crowns. Unfortunately, in the last parliamentary term, some joint-stock companies were exempted, namely stock companies that issued securities traded on a regulated market. Originally, this exception was justified by the fact that it will only apply to CEZ. Of course, CEZ is a powerful company that has its lobbyists and has worked very hard to obtain that exemption, and has succeeded even in the government. However, other companies appeared, which very surprisingly after the Chamber of Deputies approved this exception, issued bonds. Can you ask why they just issued bonds? Because bonds are also securities. So at the moment, we've given a very simple way to stock companies that are controlled by the state to avoid registering contracts simply by issuing bonds and putting them on the stock market. This was not entirely obvious because companies such as ČD Cargo or ČEPS, which had never issued any bonds before, suddenly issued bonds. Prague gas company, which is 100% owned by the capital city of Prague, borrowed 2 billion on bonds. koruna, although it is 2 billion. crowns of undistributed earnings. And other strange operations that testified that the aim of those companies was to deliberately avoid publishing contracts. In fact, the Security Information Service pointed this out to us in its report that they are using these companies on purpose, or rather, they are using the exemption for the publication of contracts. [[11.20 hours]] What, then, is the solution to resolving the opaque management of those stock companies and sometimes non-profit organizations, such as nonprofit organizations and so on? According to our proposal, the exception for ČEZ and other similar companies is to be abolished and these companies are legally obliged to publish those contracts except in cases that are taxatically stated in the Act on the Register of Contracts or in the Act on Free Access to Information. Secondly, we want to correct the deficiency that has been imposed on us in Act No. 106/1999 Coll. Constitutional court. The Constitutional Court, on the basis of a proposal sent by a lawyer, Mr Pokorný, who represents CEZ, said that it is possible for state-owned companies to publish contracts, but it must be clearly stated by law. And, according to the Constitutional Court, in the current law number 106, that was not enough because only public institutions were written there. Unfortunately, for many years, the Supreme Administrative Court has said that, of course, the public institutions include organisations that are controlled by the State, which means where the State can exercise its power, even if they are of a private nature. One of the basic reasons for which we propose that the register of contracts be extended to ČEZ and other state and cities owned by the organization is that the register of contracts has proved successful with the other entities. There was no collapse of the register of contracts, as was prophesied here. 1 098 159 contracts are published in the register of contracts today. The contract register works. The register of contracts has a preventive effect. It helps to ensure that those who manage the property of the State or in the states controlled by the companies manage the care of the proper economy and reduce the corrupt potential. We have a number of examples that have shown the functioning of the register of contracts in practice. For example, the register of contracts helped uncover secret bonuses in hospitals, the fact that the state managed to negotiate extremely advantageous tariffs, which is, of course, positive, but the question is, why it doesn't happen to citizens too, to gain access to such cheap tariffs. That the General Health Insurance Corporation pays for promotion on Parliamentary Leaves, that hospital purchases are in some cases without competition and that some of the work of the Road and Motorway Directorate is overpriced. The commitment to extend the scope of the contract register to ČEZ was also in the first version of the government's programming declaration. I do not understand, of course, why it was deleted from the second version, but according to the public statement by the Prime Minister, I assume that what the Prime Minister said is still the case that the government is interested in expanding its scope and making the management of these companies that are controlled by the State more transparent. The most important reason, of course, is for effective public control mechanisms to be set up, which are referred to by the Supreme Administrative Court in its case law. Because citizens, according to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, have the right to information on how state authorities manage. I think that this can also be applied to cases where the State transfers its powers to certain controlled organisations that, in some cases, operate in almost monopolistic positions, or at least by far dominant positions. After all, if it is mentioned here that according to the state energy strategy, the state is going to give CZK 200 billion to build another block of the Dukovany nuclear power plant, I can't imagine putting CZK 200 billion in a black hole or box that we don't know how to manage with the money, where there's absolutely no public control. Since we do not have here today, we do not even apply the principles of the Lima Declaration on the Principle of Audit, according to which any organisation owned by the State is to be controlled by the highest audit institution, such as the Supreme Audit Office. These control mechanisms are not here, and all the more important are public control mechanisms. Of course, it is a legitimate question against the reasons for the extension of the CEZ contract register law that these companies are not disadvantaged in a purely competitive environment. Because some state firms actually do business in an environment that is purely competitive, and this question is completely legitimate. To this end, the valid Civil Code in Section 504 foretells the institute of so-called business secrets, which are competitively significant, identifiable, appreciated and in the relevant business circles normally unavailable, which the owner somehow conceals. If it turns out that there are some other information that needs to be kept secret in order to secure a position in a competitive environment, and they will be very specifically defined, then let us definitely discuss them. We can discuss this in the second reading, in the Committee's amendments, but I do not yet know of any such specific facts. And I would very much hate for the confidentiality, the non-publication of contracts to extend to all cases of any know-how. After all, business secrets are being applied quite extensively today. When we look at cases such as the national company Budějovický Budvar, those contracts that it publishes are not in some cases prices, if it falls under business secrets, there are in some cases also suppliers, contractors. So it turns out that the adjustment so far is, of course, quite sufficient. I would like to address one more point that was made in the opinion of the Parliamentary Institute. The Parliamentary Institute draws attention to the fact that the proposal, as it is now prepared, is working with the concept of a majority associate which concerns commercial corporations, but draws the attention of the Parliamentary Institute to the fact that there are legal entities that are controlled by the State or managed, which are of a different nature than commercial corporations. It's the associations, the constitutions, the foundations, the foundation funds and other similar organizations, nonprofit organizations. And we have to say that some nonprofit organizations are controlled by the state or the city. For example, if you look at a non-profit organization that is controlled by the Prague 1 district, if you go through the Old Town Square and you see the sausages by the park, the plots are rented by this non-profit organization from Prague 1. Well, of course no one knows how they manage. So she rents them for 2,000 crowns a day, all those lucrative parcels for the sale of sausages in Old Town Square, but in fact, those who have rented those booths pay you dramatically more money to this organization. And it is perfectly legitimate for the public to ask where the hundreds of thousands, millions of crowns are disappearing in the Czech Republic in this way. The money is generated by the decision of the public authority, essentially the revenue is generated in this way and it is logical for public control to exist in this case as well. So, ladies and gentlemen, allow me now to draw close to the conclusion. I would like to ask you that the Chamber of Deputies clearly show that the House wants state-owned companies and controlled companies to function transparently, to publish information as it is published by the state administration, and I would politely ask you to support our proposal to get to the next reading. Of course, during the debate, I am ready to answer all the questions, comments and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u5	So, I thank the representatives of the appellants for putting forward the proposal and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Miloslav Janulík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There isn't much to add after the previous speaker's statement. Only those who remember know how hard this law was born here, how hard it was to accept. The fact that there were exceptions or the many exceptions, we weren't very conformal about it, but it was just that situation at the time and we were glad that it had been achieved at least in this form. Therefore, it is commendable that the pirate party is heading in this direction. Practice proves that, in the end, there are no major problems involved. That's good. However, I would be careful that at that time, of course, we had a very strong argument with the State Reconstruction, so it will also, in some way, express itself and express itself, which, of course, will then be reflected in the committees. And I would certainly mention one thing that I would answer through the President, Mr Plzák. Those nonprofit organizations are there, but they're not all included. Of course, only those where the state has participation are included, respectively. The community, these clean nonprofits in quotes, they're not there, which maybe wouldn't hurt if they were there. That's one point. The second point relates to the fact that, of course, some contracts or some things have a strategic nature for the state and for the government, respectively. for the state as such, so that I would lean towards it then, when we divide into committees, put it on the Security Committee, certainly, so that he can comment on it, on the width, virtually. to what is actually going to be published. So it's definitely the Security Committee, the Defence Committee, and, of course, the Economic Committee. Otherwise, I don't have anything else to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u7	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Miloslav Janulík. I hereby open a general debate where I have priority rights as the first Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u8	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be brief, I will not burden the debate in any way. I must repeat, however, that the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic has also filed a constitutional complaint against the current proposal for the Act on the Register of Contracts, which is at the Constitutional Court, and will assess whether the law currently in force, including those exceptions, corresponds to Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which states that everyone has the right to own property and ownership of all owners has the same legal content and protection. I'm not gonna read Article 11. What's going on? I simply am not interested, frankly, in order that businesses in the hands of a state that is in a competitive environment should be put out of line by private businesses. And it's not just the Budvar national business that's worse off than the others, because they're in a hard competitive environment. And ČEZ, of course, is Europe's seventh largest energy company, but it is also in the harsh competitive environment of European companies. And imagine that their competitors will read whatever they want from the contracts. I don't agree. I agree that nonprofit organizations belong to the register. They don't belong in a competitive environment. Let them be published because, for example, income from the state has passed over over ten billion for all non-profit organizations, and I believe that in the inventory of our contributions to individual non-profit organizations, we will come to some conclusion on how to stand up to the budget of 2019. That's reality. But precisely because the bill does not respect the equality of property forms, as I have quoted here from Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, so I believe that it should be returned to the applicants for revision. And I'm making a proposal like this because I'm deeply convinced of it. If the application fails, I insist that the time limit for the hearing be extended by 20 days, I do not need the consent of the petitioners under the Rules of Procedure. So I am filing this proposal as a second alternative, if it had not passed the proposal to return the applicants for revision. Perhaps I do not need to specify the reasons further. There's really no way the state can get rid of its rights as owner. If a group of plaintiffs wants to destroy the public sector, let them declare it in the law. This is the liquidation of the public sector in favour of the private sector. And I'm a long-term champion of the equality of property forms here. And I think it's the right position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u9	I thank the Vice-President. I have two factual points and two applications for the general debate. First, I ask for Mr Milan Feranc's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u10	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my point really is factual only in relation to what the representatives of the petitioners said about issuing bonds - indicated by purposeful ones. The company ČD Cargo was remembered. I'm just pointing out that this company issued bonds in 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u11	Thank you. And here is another point of fact - Mr Jan Bauer. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just a brief factual point, or rather a question. I took the job and read the government's programming statement. I have to say that in the government's programme statement in demise, it says that the government will submit its own amendment to the Act on the Register of Contracts. I suppose we all have not exactly good experience with the fact that sometimes parliamentary initiatives are out of control and are not good quality. After all, this is how the government comments on this proposal with its neutral position. My question is whether the government will actually be satisfied with this pirate, in my opinion not a perfect, parliamentary initiative, or whether the government will submit its own proposal or amendment to the law. [[The speaker looks for a government bench, where only Minister of Regional Development Klára Dostálová, Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch, Minister of Finance Alena Schiller and Minister of Culture Ilya Šmíd sits.]] I don't know if any of the government representatives present are competent enough to answer that question. I'd really like someone competent to show up. The last point is that in fact last year, 30 senators filed a constitutional complaint to repeal the Act on the Register of Contracts. And I'm also asking someone, some government representative, if he doesn't think it would really be appropriate for us to wait until the final decision of the Constitutional Court. It will decide and then it can be expressed by both the Chamber of Deputies and the Government, whatever it may be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. I have two more factual points here. I will ask for Mr Jan Zahradník's speech. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is once again a proposal that is, perhaps none of us will question it, from the workshop or from the initiative of those activist organisations that represent the Reconstruction of the State. That's useless. This was also the case in the hard version of the Treaty Register Act, and so, in my opinion, it is also with this proposal. I hope I won't be suspected of being a fan of these organizations. I was one of those few who voted against the contract register bill. And we have been punished appropriately for this by the activist organizations of Reconstruction of the State. I think that we are really trying to burden all the institutions that belong to the founding responsibilities of the regions, municipalities, etc., with this obligation, we are doing wrong. Such organizations are, for example, hospitals that set up as public limited companies in the region. They are all eseróčky, akciovky, which municipalities and regions and the state have set up, and thus are exposed to an entirely unfair competitive environment, becoming entities of unfair competition. [[Noise in the hall. In the alleys are the crowds of the debating Members.]] When I tried to propose that non-profit organisations should also have this obligation, I am now referring to the obligation under the Act on the Register of Contracts, or also to private organisations which receive significant state subsidies, these proposals were not accepted. I will therefore join those who will vote on rejecting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another factual remark, Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'll be very brief. I would ask the rapporteur not to name lobbyist groups here. By the way, as far as I know, the government is preparing a law on lobbying, so for me, reconstruction of the state is a dirty lobbying company that defends the interests of very strange people. As to why these companies don't want to publish contracts, why there are exceptions. You really think it's because they're mismanagement? Budvar or ČEZ? You really don't think that's why they don't want to publish it? I don't think so. They don't want to publish it just for business reasons. And that's the whole problem. Otherwise the community, yes, it's bothering us. I don't see any corrupt potential in these contracts. It's just given an ex post when it's published. And it's just extra work, blacking, publishing, etc. I'll say another case from practice: a hundred and six, a law on free access to information. Today, it was said that this bill also applies to this bill. Let me tell you - do you really think citizens are really asking about the office in the public interest? Absolutely not! 99 percent of the requests for free access to information are either corporate, they are interested in public procurement, but if they are citizens, they are mostly interested in measuring them somewhere stationary radar, what kind of company operates it, how it got there, etc. That means the purpose here is also very dubious! But unlike the contract register, I see it a little differently here. It's just that citizens have a right, and we're giving it to them. I don't think the register of contracts has any anti-corruption character, it's the publication of something that's been done. We only care about it for administrative reasons, I take it as an extra job, another administration. Otherwise, I don't care. But seriously consider that state-owned companies do not want to publish contracts because they would cheat, so unfortunately I cannot accept them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u17	Well, Mr. Ambassador, thank you, time. And I have another point of fact, Mr Marian Jurečka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u18	Hello. I have originally made a proper statement to the debate, but seeing as the debate is going on here now, I will allow myself to speak with technical and to make a procedural proposal to justify it. In view of the fact that last year, we have quite complicated compromises with the Act on the Register of Contracts, which is not so long in practice, I think that the business environment also appreciates some predictability of our actions, and especially in view of how it has been said that a proposal has been made to the Constitutional Court, it is being discussed, so I would take the liberty of saving time here and not making a new amendment in a few months, for example, in view of the Constitutional Court's finding, which I do not want to anticipate, so if we were allowed to interrupt this point until the publication of the Constitutional Court's decision. That's my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u19	Thank you and Mr Jan Farský has the last point of fact at the moment. [[Reminder from the diaper]] Excuse me? Yes, yes, I'm sorry, I misheard. So your procedural proposal is adjourned to the Constitutional Court's decision. So since it's a procedural proposal, we'll vote now. I'm gonna go first, and second, I'm gonna check you out. [[Short silence.]] I'll see if we're settled, I think so. So who is in favour of the motion to adjourn until the Constitutional Court ruling, please press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 66, registered is 144, for 45, against 91, abstaining 8. This proposal was rejected. So we will continue to discuss, and I will ask Mr Farský for a factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u20	Have a good day. Two minutes are short for a long talk about six years of adoption and enforcement of this law, so I'm going to limit myself to the basics. As mayors and independents, we support this amendment from the point of view that it really is things that fell out of law during negotiations. Frankly, however, I also have to say that the stability of the environment, which is constantly changing, is also of great value, and that, therefore, this change, I think, occurs relatively unnecessarily soon, because it is better if the system sits down. And in my past experience, I'm very worried about how the law, now that it's open in the Chamber of Deputies, can survive. It can also easily happen that, with a good plan, the law can improve the law after it passes through the Chamber of Deputies, so it almost doesn't have to be. When the State's reconstruction sounded here, I just wanted to say that they were giving an opinion, I don't know how much they distributed it. And maybe colleagues on this proposal, may surprise our colleagues here, but they're against that part of the release. They themselves say that the letter, sorry, I don't remember it anymore, the last letter in the exception section, it shouldn't be there. This is the complex compromise that has been set up here. And they say that this exception for those entrepreneurs and where it is really part of their business, so that this is preserved. Their opinion states that they agree to abolish the exception for ČEZ, which was extended precisely purposefully by the fact that companies were thus removed through the issuance of bonds from the register of contracts. Well, that's only when we're debating so that all the data is really known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Ivan Bartoš's point of fact and Mrs Kateřina Valachová, duly signed up, is now ready. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u22	Thank you. A serious colleague, my fellow Members, Mr President, has been told here by the petitioner Jakub Michálek what is actually involved in the abolition of exceptions. But this is where the ČEZ often sounds. This year or on the table is the division of ČEZ. ČEZ has a number of divisions. One of them is ČEZ Distribution. New tariff structures for end users are being discussed at the ERU again, which remove electric current, so the circuit breakers are two. So if it is interpreted to citizens in the Czech Republic that energy needs to be increased, and the Czech Republic and households are faced with this energy poverty, if you look at the costs of electricity collection, then I think that it is in the optics that this is to happen in 2018, 2019, once again the increase in energy, ČEZ Distribuce plays a big role in this, which concludes contracts that are not transparent, where there is a huge amount of money flowing, so citizens have the right to have a chance to see where the money goes. What has increased the cost of looking at a massive increase in electricity consumption for households. So for this reason right now, we're supposed to talk about canceling these exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A colleague of Adamec also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u24	Thank you. I'm just very brief and brief. So I am not one of ČEZ's attorneys and no big energy giant, but I have one thing to say. We need to figure out what we're talking about here. The price of electricity today is not the price of the market. That's the political price. So, please, let's just remember that! We have a chance to influence it! It is a political price, determined by political decisions!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u25	Thank you. Now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Mr. Marek Benda will be ready. I don't know if the MP can hear me that it was her turn to apply...? Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for bringing down the factual points that have distracted me. I would like to say an opinion on this proposal for a social democratic club. We want to support its passage to second reading, but I would like to say that the right to information is, of course, not the only guarantee of legality. And I would like us to remember that, and also not to resign that other control mechanisms must work for us, and we should strive to do so as legislators. And the second thing I want to mention. We will certainly, as Social Democrats, endeavour to read the amendment in committee to deal with the fact that, after all, strategic state-owned enterprises have a different meaning, different content of activity, and we will want this not only to be discussed but also resolved within the various committees. So we support this proposal, we are in favour of transparency. But beware, the right to information is just one of the tools to monitor state policy and the exercise of state property rights. And we will want an amendment and we believe that such an amendment will be approved within the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u27	Thank you, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. I will read an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Dominik Feri apologizes from 11.45 to 13:00. Now, Mr Marek Benda, who is duly enrolled in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u28	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, I will use the fact that the Act on Free Access to Information is open, which to some extent I consider to be much more fundamental than the Act on the Register of Contracts. On this point, many have been said and are still talking about those public, semi-public enterprises, and I think that we should also focus on the law on free access to information. I was his enemy from the beginning, even though it was being promoted here by people who looked like a right-wing focus at the time. I thought it was a complete mistake from the start and an attempt to break the state, not a way to help this state. And I think that even its real functioning only leads to the support of notorious complainants, assholes, or - what do you call it? - people who are basically trying to harass those public institutions, especially municipalities and many others. But that's not why I would perform. This is some kind of opinion that maybe someone else has, and I think it's absolutely right for someone to think that all state power is to be exercised completely publicly, and someone thought that some things in state power can also be private, or at least in some private moments. What I consider to be absolutely fundamental was the finding that we came to last year in an investigative committee which, among other things, dealt with leaks from the files and where we found that the practice of the Supreme Administrative Court in particular, and then the Constitutional Court, which began to force the courts to publish partial judgments and to start publishing partial decisions in criminal matters, came into such absurdistán - and even those of the courts - that they were issued under the so-called 100th, the Free Access to Information Act, and the detention and other criminal proceedings. I don't know if we realize how dangerous it is, how it breaks the right to privacy. There's something else if the final verdict is published. If binding decisions, including justifications, are published, then protection, any protection of the rights of persons to be considered innocent from the point of view of the state at the time, are merely suspects, on whom the court may be bound, but the whole justification, which is also borne there by the prosecutor, which the court takes over to a certain extent, is subsequently published under the Free Access to Information Act - I consider this to be absolutely impossible, completely violating any principle of presumption of innocence, totally violating the right to a non-public criminal trial, for a major error which has become the decision of the court. And I think that when we open the law on free access to information, and it was a big consensus in the last parliamentary term on the very committee that dealt with leaks from the files, we must also open this issue and try to resolve it. I am just saying that I will want us to discuss, in addition to the publication of contracts or free access to information in public institutions, also where the decision-making of the court has taken place, a significant shift against the original law on free access to information and where it is due to the publication of information that is not supposed to be public and have the character of non-public information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u29	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Now, Mr Michálek, the representatives of the appellants, are reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the liberty of responding to some of the comments that have been made here. Thank you very much for getting off with them. And I'll take it one step at a time. Firstly, the opposition of Vice-President Vojtěch Filip that the bill does not respect the equality of ownership. On this point, I wanted to say that the provision of information in itself in the case of entities controlled by the State has already been made before the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court has stated that if there is a public interest, it is, of course, possible for such an institution to provide information, but it must be laid down by law. That was the Constitutional Court's objection. So I believe there is no breach of the Constitution. And if we look at it materially, it's the right of the owner to decide how his organization will behave, which he owns. If you look at our pirate side, it's our own members when I say so, and they decide they want all the documents published by the pirate side. That's just how they get published. Because the owner, within his right of ownership, decides what's going to happen. And so the State can decide as owner or controlling legal person how the organisation is supposed to function if it makes up for a proven shortening of any minority members etc. Indeed, the YES movement in the last parliamentary term came up with a draft document - I do not want to comment on its content right now, but in principle it was very important that the ownership policy of the State was proposed. This is a matter which is lacking in this state in the long term, that the State does not know how to manage its ownership interests, it does not essentially exercise its right of ownership as a proper economic operator would have exercised it. And I think, if it were in that ownership policy too, that the interest of the state, which is owned by all citizens, is that the state's property and the assets controlled by the State should be managed transparently, transparently, so it is a matter that clearly belongs to that ownership policy. Now, about what the rapporteur said. I agree with that. Of course, it is necessary to consider that this applies to the so-called ones. net non-profits, those organisations which do not have an element of, say, a public body, its control of the participation of the proceedings, and receive subsidies from the State. Secondly, the strategic nature of some information. That's also something we recognise, of course. ČEZ doesn't have to provide information today. Today, ČEZ has an exception. And if we decide to start providing and publishing information, then, of course, it is necessary to ensure that very sensitive information is not leaked, e.g. details and safety risks of nuclear reactors. It is, of course, nonsense for us to publish such information. So let's think about whether it's possible to cover it in full, for example. classified information under the applicable law, or if it is necessary to protect these relevant interests in any other way. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] [[12.00 hours]] This is also related to the question of stability, which was mentioned here by Mr Farský, the petitioner of the original draft law on the register of contracts, which has been approved. I believe that this should not be a matter that will hinder the negotiation of this bill, because ČEZ has not yet been subject to any law, so it is basically not there -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u31	I will interrupt you, Mr Member, and ask the House for peace so that you can make your speech in a Chamber that respects your right that you have been given the floor. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u32	Thank you, Mr President. So I think that the question of stability is not appropriate either, and if there is an extension of the already proven principle of publication of contracts to other entities in which the state has a stake, I think that is no threat to the stability of the market environment. Now, on the comment that has been made here, which relates to Law No. 106/1999 Coll., on Free Access to Information, by Mr. Adamec. It said here that 99 percent of the applications are corporate or some kind of radar. Based on my experience in the capital city of Prague, and my colleagues will surely complement me from other municipalities, it is not such a high percentage. On the contrary, citizens' questions about some decisions, conceptual documents, why it was done or what it was supported by, etc., what documents, citizens want documents that politicians in the media are talking about, but which are not published, and there are other similar questions. They are the most common according to the data that I have followed, because every institution that provides information under Law 106 must also, according to § 5 para. 3 of the same law to publish on its website, so we can very simply read the annual report and the specific information provided, because it is available to all citizens, and it is far from just information that some companies require. And now for the last time to Mr. Benda. I am very sorry that my colleague Benda has some opposition to the law on free access to information as such, because the law on free access to information foretells our constitutional order. It is in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Citizens of the Czech Republic have the right to information, and the vast majority of civilised states in Europe have a law on free access to information, and I do not know why citizens should tolerate, citizens who own this state, why they should tolerate the fact that officials or politicians hide all information from them. This seems completely unacceptable to me, and I would like to see to this discourse that the law on free access to information should not actually be here, that fundamental human rights and freedoms guaranteed by constitutional order should be abolished. But that's just a comment, let's say, on principles, on starting points. And now specific remarks on what my colleague Benda said. I believe that according to the law in force, and now, of course, different courts can and apply it differently, so under the law in force, the court should not provide information from ongoing criminal proceedings except for decisions, and if it already provides them, it should provide them anonymously. There's one thing that I have to say that this publication violates the right to a non-public trial. All I can say is that our Charter of Rights and Freedoms only anticipates the right to a public trial, not to a non-public trial, and, if there is a non-publicity, the exclusion of citizens from the application of the judiciary, it must be in particularly narrowly defined cases. Of course, some meetings are not public, including the detention session, but this does not mean that the outcome of the application of the judicial authority is not disclosed, because then it would be precisely the judicial power that goes beyond any citizen's control. And I think it's an important element. I would therefore like to summarise this by adopting a neutral position on the proposal, the proposal has the public support of the Prime Minister, who supported it in the media, and I think that the Chamber of Deputies should move the proposal to another reading today so that we can deal in detail with the other issues raised by the previous speakers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u33	I thank Mr Michálek. Now I have two factual points. The first is Mr Petr Beitl and Mr Marek Benda will be prepared, both on a factual note. My colleague, Zahradník Three. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u34	Thank you. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we have already had a number of debates about standards that are linked to the fact that they discourage real quality people from taking up, for example. to political positions, whether they're deputies or mayor and mayor yesterday. And it is not just politics, it is also professional functions, because the often repeated mantra is that it is in the board of directors and bodies of society that experts should join. And it must also be said that in these bodies, especially in the board of directors of public limited companies, there are people who are legally responsible for their decisions and their personal property. However, if you put these people ahead of acting as experts and guaranteeing their property while publishing trade agreements that are accustomed to entering into a regime, it is a challenge that is contradictory to them, and I think that this is the very way to get the real experts out of those institutions, thereby damaging decision making in the finals and, in fact, the economy of those companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u35	I thank Mr Petr Beitl. Now let me read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and this is from Mrs Ivana Nevludová, who apologizes from 12.00 to 14.30, and Mrs Aulická Jírovcová from 14.30 to the end of the working day, both of them. Now, then, Mr Marek Benda, Mr Jan Zahradník will be prepared with a factual remark, and then Mr Adamec will also be prepared with a factual remark. My colleague Farský reporting with priority rights? Normally, okay. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u36	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, just a brief response to Mr Michálek. Now I'm not sure if I didn't misunderstand, I'm convinced that I didn't talk about the non-publicity of the legal proceedings, but if that were the case, of course I meant the non-publicity of the preparatory proceedings. And I insist on that, and I consider it absolutely essential. It is precisely through publication of decisions on ties that this non-publicity of the preparatory procedure is breaking. I consider this to be a huge problem, because there is information that is of a preliminary nature, not yet leading to judgment or condemnation, leading only to a preliminary decision, also the time that the court has for it is relatively short, and it is not possible to admit - and even so clearly the law on free access to information originally assumed, where it is said: Nothing is being published from the preparatory procedure. And then it was interpreted by the Constitutional Court, quite mistakenly, that this is the final decision in the matter. Yes, it's a final decision about the detention, but it's a final decision on the partial aspect of the procedure, and then I think it's a big mistake that it's being published, and I think we need to figure it out. Second remark, a purely technical character. If Mr Michálek says that they have the support of the Prime Minister, then I think it is necessary to say with Cimrman, the assistant teacher, that is precisely: the Prime Minister in resignation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jan Zahradník, with a factual remark, will prepare for a factual remark by Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u38	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I would like to say, first of all, that my long-term view, which I have made clear here during the discussion of the Treaty Register, is that it is not possible, in my view, for such important enterprises as CEZ or the national company Budvar, which employ many people who create a significant part of the national product, to be exposed to an unequal position in competition with other undertakings, which, of course, are in the same field undertaking and are not burdened with this obligation. First of all. [[12.10 hours]] Secondly, the law on free access to information. I do not know to what extent the petitioners realized that when all legal entities are classified among the mandatory entities, where the autonomous units are majority partners, that they will fall there too - and I repeat it again - hospitals, which are established in some regions as public limited companies wholly owned by the regions. And these hospitals have a lot of information, which is at least very sensitive and which, in my opinion, should not be in the market for free communication of information. That is why I reject this law, and I believe it will be rejected. If it goes to second reading, I will try to amend and amend any amendments to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec, with a point of fact. Another factual point is that of Mr Marek the Výborný. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, colleague Michálek provoked me. Let me put it this way. Like every good mayor, I watch annual reports every year -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u41	I will take your time again, Mr. Ambassador, but I will ask the House once again for peace. Colleagues who are discussing something other than free access to information, I ask that they move their discussions into the foyer so that there is sufficient peace here. I'll take your measurements again. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u42	I will put my foot down, Mr President. Thank you. You're a favor yourself. I repeat, I have been provoked to this point of fact by my colleague Michálek. I, like every good mayor, follow the annual report on how the requests are actually made under Law No. 106, and I have to say I have a completely different experience, but I'm sorry, I made a mistake in my gross statistics. There is still part of the percentage, and that depends on how and where it is needed, it is created by activists who do not do this at all out of public interest, but mostly for their self-enforcement. So the mix is: competitive fight, it's the most there, then it's sometimes some citizen, maybe sometimes it's more, but it shows that the town hall maybe doesn't just give the documents to the public normally. Where it's common, where they need to be found on the Internet or on an official record, there's no problem. And the rest are activists. So that's the result. But I have nothing against the hundredth, I can say in my own way that such serious problems as those in justice do not bring us this law. And now for the companies. Do you know why the state has some companies that it should defend now? Because - they've already fallen - they're doing business, they have different know-how, they just don't want to be disadvantaged on the market. Well, one way is that the state shouldn't have such businesses. Let's ask ourselves if Budvar Budvar is properly owned by the state. But this is a discussion on a completely different subject at the moment. And speaking of Čez, let's face it! So he owns the state of CEZ? I'll answer you. He does! Because otherwise the price of electricity would be market and would be somewhere else entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Marek Výborný with a point of fact. Mr Jan Bauer and Mrs Richterová are further signing up for the debate with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, we see and hear that this thing really is not easy here. The definition of public interest at the moment is subject to the decision of the Constitutional Court, and if the House rejected the procedural motion to interrupt this point, which we considered logical precisely so that we could decide with the knowledge of the published Constitutional Court finding, then it would probably be reasonable to support the proposal to reject the entire proposal. Since we are going to have to accept something here that we will have to change on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, it seems to me not entirely happy. So we join this proposal as a KDU-ČSL MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u45	I thank Mr Marek the Výborný. Now, Mr Jan Bauer, Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u46	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, the members of the opposition parties are having a professional and very serious discussion here, and I am asking what the government has to say about this. I was here about an hour ago humbly and very politely asking, as it is my own, whether any competent member of the government could speak and say his position and answer the questions I have raised here. An hour has passed and there are basically only three possibilities: either this government has no competent minister, which I think is bad news, and the government has decided to cut its entire election period, or no competent minister is present at the moment, which is also bad information in the rush of saying that it is to go to work, as we have heard in the last few days. And the third option is the worst - they don't give a damn, which I think is bad news for citizens of the Czech Republic. I would really like to ask again and humbly if any competent member of the government could answer my questions or comment on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u47	I thank Mr Jan Bauer for his speech in the debate. Now, Mrs Richterová, too, with a factual point. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. There was a significant discussion about how it is with citizens and activists. I think the line is variable. Often, a person may feel like a citizen who tries to find out something and is labeled differently by others. But most importantly, it may be that CEZ, if it were to publish those contracts and, of course, for the possibility of not publishing strategic data, etc., as it is today, would then lead to cheaper current for everyone in the finals. This needs to be stressed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. That was the last application for a debate at the moment. I'm asking if anyone's checking in. [[Member of Farsky.]] I'm sorry, it wasn't electronically, but it's written down. Mr. Jan Farský. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought for a moment that I wouldn't mind if you forgot, because there was a lot of information here, but I think they were going over the surface and left the base. I think transparency is really meaningful, it makes sense where information works. Both the publication of contracts, the so-called register of contracts, which plays a fundamental preventive role, and the law on free access to information, are laws that can be difficult in functions, but which have really helped the quality of public administration in the Czech Republic quite significantly. I think that they are also extremely important in that, even if we may be uncomfortable in the short term, that we need to publish information that we would rather not put out, so they work in that they have long-term potential to restore confidence in politics, because where it is dark, where it is dark, it always raises questions, it always raises conjecture and gives great room for disinformation, for different distortions of reality. The moment, for example, when you publish the maximum of contracts, of course, you can see the financial flows. And it still works that finances and public funds are linked to the exercise of some power, and it's good when the flow of public finances is documented and it's traceable. By making contracts public after they have been concluded, they do not endanger business, they do not threaten to distort the market in any way. But they work in such a way that when someone who makes a contract knows that the treaty will be public and will be able to check it not only by the opposition, not only by the activists, but also by the competition, so, of course, access to the treaty is much more responsible. That's what I think is the positive that the contract register brings. Many complain that the register itself is incredibly inconspicuous. I think they're partly right. Yes, the app or the page administered by the Ministry of the Interior is inconspicuous, but it was not her job to be clear in the sense that you search it comfortably for all information and you can somehow compare it. That was just... it is only a page on which all the data appears in open form. [[It's still noisy in the hall.]] [[12.20 hours]] If you want - and now here I will make recommendations and some promos - if you want to search in the register of contracts, whether according to companies, according to the links, according to the entities publishing, get overviews, get connections and actually see financial flows, then for this is an application, or a site that works very reliably, contract guardian cz. Access there isn't charged, so I think I can afford to name it that way. The register of contracts is therefore a matter that explains the information that is, until then, complicatedly available. I am convinced that this is the right way for the Czech Republic, as well as for the Act on Free Access to Information. Therefore, this opening and this press number 50 from the Pirates workshop will be supported by the Mayors movement and independent until second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u51	Thank you, Mr Jan Farský. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Assistant plaintiffs, yes. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u52	I will only react very briefly. Some of the outputs surprised me a little bit, because, if I remember correctly, maybe the People's Party had in the last term in the electoral program that they would publish, that they would ensure the publication of contracts by state-owned organizations. As a result, it was found that they didn't even know they had it in their program. One thing that has been said here, which is untrue, is that this proposal concerns public limited liability companies, which are hospitals and which may be owned by regions. No, such institutions already have to publish in the contract register and provide information on request on the basis of applicable laws, if they are 100% owned. And the last, but by far the best argument that came to me against the approval of the bill is that if we order ČEZ to publish contracts, no one will sign up for us on the Supervisory Board. That's really the best one. Thank you for your attention and please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u53	Thank you and now the final word of the rapporteur. He's interested. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've only had a short time. I recommend releasing this proposal to second reading, with the fact that of course there will be room for the application of everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u55	Thank you to the rapporteur. You made it a little easier on yourself, so I'll do it for you. Of course, several proposals were made in the debate. One of us voted in a procedural vote, which means that we did not agree to interrupt the Constitutional Court's decision. And we have a motion for a re-evaluation, and we have a motion for a rejection, which has been made here, repeated by Mr. Výborný. But Mr. Výborný said to be rejected in the debate, in the factual remark. Then there was a proposal to extend the 20-day period if neither of these proposals had passed. So we will vote first on the proposal to return the bill to the plaintiffs for completion. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I'm gonna go for it because I asked the debaters to discuss in the lobby, so I'm gonna give them a chance to come back... [[It is waiting for the arrival of other Members in the hall.]] I assume that those who are interested in voting on this proposal are present. We will decide on the proposal to return the proposed draft law to the 67 vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 67. Out of 159 present for 39, versus 99. The motion was not accepted. Now we have a motion to dismiss. That is what we will decide in the 68 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of rejecting the motion. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 68. Of the 159 present for 30, against 77. This proposal was not accepted either. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else suggest a committee as a guarantee? Mr. Michálek proposes another guarantee committee?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u56	I think this is a matter of a register of contracts and providing information is part of the Ministry of the Interior's agenda. The Guarantee Committee should be the Public Administration Committee, because that is the case under the competence law. So I suggest that the Guarantee Committee be the Public Administration Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u57	Okay, we'll decide on the counterproposal. The Public Administration Committee as a guarantee committee. We are voting 69. Who is in favour of the Guarantee Committee being the Public Administration Committee? Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 69. Of the present 160 for 83, versus 34. The motion was accepted. We will therefore vote on the commandment to other committees. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order this proposal further to the Committee on Petitions as a committee for the next. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I assume that Mr Marek Benda will propose a committee of constitutional law which has failed, although it has been proposed as a guarantee. And Mrs Černochová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u58	Mr Vice-President, you're assuming correctly. The Organizing Committee has proposed a constitutional legal committee as a guarantee committee, this House has voted for something else. I understand that, but I recommend that we order the bill to the constitutionally-legal committee as the next committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u59	Okay. Mrs Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think it was said here and in this debate that some issues here may have an impact on the security of the Czech Republic or the objects that are known as "dodesy" in the security hangar. That is why I think it would be appropriate for the Security Committee to address this issue as well. I therefore propose that this bill be referred to the Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u61	Okay, thank you. So we've got... Yes, Mr. Jan Bartošek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u62	Thank you for the floor. I think it would be right to order this proposal to the Economic Committee, because it will have an impact on the management of many companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-004-017.u63	Okay. Who else? No one else. We therefore have four proposals before us, which we will be voting on gradually. First, the Constitutional Committee, and that is what we will decide in the 70 vote that I started. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 70. Of the 161 Members present for 156, against no one. The motion was accepted. Now we will decide on the committee of the petitioner, in the vote number 71, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the commandment to the petition committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 71. Of the 162 Members present for 94, against 21. The motion was accepted. [[12.30 hours]] We will now vote on the Commandment of the Security Committee. I have begun voting number 72 and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 72. Of the present 162 for 115, against 15. The Security Committee will also address this committee according to the House's commandments. The final proposal is an economic committee. We will decide in the vote number 73... please set up. I don't have a 73 vote yet. I'm begging you to... thank you. I have begun voting number 73 and I am asking who is in favour of the Economic Committee. Who opposes the commandment of the Economic Committee? Thank you. In the vote, order number 73 of the 162 Members present: for 143, against 5. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the extension of the 20-day time limit in the vote number 74, which I have launched and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 74. Of the present 162 for 142, versus 6. The motion was accepted. In addition to the guarantee committee, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, I can also say that we have ordered this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee, the Committee on Petitions, the Committee on Security and the Economic Committee, and the time limit for discussion is extended by 20 days above the prescribed 60-day limit. Thank you to the representatives of the appellants, thank you to the rapporteur and finish with point 17. Since we have decided, during the discussion of the agenda, that we will be discussing electoral points today after 12.30, we will deal with the electoral points. It'll be points 52 and 53. The President of the Election Commission is present. Opening point number
