ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-008-033.u1	33. Proposal by Members of Vojtěch Filip, Pavel Kováčik, Stanislav Grospič, Alexander Černý and others for the issue of the Constitutional Act on the referendum /German press 117/ - first reading I'm gonna ask my colleague Okamura to relieve me for a moment, because I'm gonna introduce the press to a group of plaintiffs myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-008-033.u2	I will therefore ask that the proposal put forward by the representatives of the plaintiffs, Vice-President of the House, and Chairman of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-008-033.u3	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be very economical. The bill on the referendum is tabled, it is a constitutional law which assumes that the referendum will be declared essentially as a law, with the President of the Republic declaring it. The conditions of these basic parameters are essentially the negotiating minimum for the KSČM, with the fact that it is evident that if we are to reach 120 votes of Members and gain the affection of three fifths of senators, the question is very fundamental and we will have to have some consensus. Although we have also mentioned 100,000 signatures, because it is evolving from a certain logic, a little different from the logic that is presented in the proposal for social democracy, there should be 10 percent of all voters as a large social demand, we see the social demand differently, and that is the demand of those political parties that run and address voters, and there were five in these elections in 2017 that joined the Chamber of Deputies. I'm not counting the ones that failed, I'm counting the ones that succeeded. It therefore means that the voters of these political parties are interested in the referendum, they have a different idea of it, and it is up to us, therefore, how we incarnate that notion into the law. Our proposal assumes that the referendum will take place on all the matters on which the group of citizens would agree to call for it. A group of citizens, and this has already been said, can be replaced by Members and Senators. We were talking here about the number needed to elect one Member and, of course, the number of senators we would probably count on a smaller, much smaller number that is needed to elect one Senator, because in the second round the participation is never that big, but we are still putting it there. We also have the government of the Czech Republic as the initiate of the referendum, for one simple reason. It may happen during the parliamentary term, which is a very serious matter that none of the political parties that form the government or any of the political parties that have ever entered the House will have to deal with the problem that happens within that parliamentary term. The mandate that comes from the elections comes from the electoral programmes as well. And if no political party that is in the Government or the Chamber of Deputies has had the problem solved in its electoral agenda and is to decide, then, of course, it acts in its decision-making beyond the legitimacy of those electoral programmes. I remind you that the question of legality and legitimacy would be for a long seminar, but if the government or political parties in the Chamber of Deputies do not want to risk being outside the legitimacy, they can, of course, address citizens with a referendum. This is the right of those who have a representative democracy - and I think that we should also deal with the question of legitimacy, because there are issues that may actually occur over time, and none of the political parties had them in their agenda. That is why it is an extension that most other political parties do not have. It is, of course, a form known to other constitutional systems, even counted with it some proposals for the referendum law, which were presented in the past to this Chamber of Deputies, even the successful proposal that came to the Senate that I think passed, was a consensus on it, all 120 votes were obtained, but then collapsed in the Senate, when there was a consensus of the KSČM, social democracy, KDU-ČSL, and it was enough to push it in the Chamber of Deputies at that time, because some Members who were outside the three political parties gave their vote for it. And that's probably the big difference between the other designs. However, as far as the form is concerned, we are prepared for the compromise that would be sent to the Senate so that it can be dealt with in order to become part of the Czech rule of law, because we consider it in representative democracy - I point out in representative democracy - as one of the components to be part of our rule of law, and the Constitution assumes that, of course, we are prepared for the fact that some of the questions in that law, which is declared in this way as a law, cannot be declared in this general referendum because they will have to be declared constitutional law. Not according to this Act on the referendum, however, but directly by a special Constitutional Act on referendums, as a referendum on accession to the European Union has been announced by a special Constitutional Act. In my opinion, it is pointless to discuss that this issue cannot be put forward at all in a referendum. Firstly, we have once declared a constitutional law on accession to the European Union by constitutional law, and if we wanted the same question, albeit in another guard, that means staying or leaving the Union, to declare it, it would not be possible to do this under the law simply announced by the Presidential Declaration. This would need to be done on the same level, that is, in the same amount of commitment, and it would have to be a special constitutional law. That is what I say to all those who are hoarding and afraid of journalists that, in fact, there would be a law here that would simply come out of the European Union. It's not like that. On the other hand, the Czech Republic is in more than 200 international organizations and we have not entered any of them except the European Union on the basis of a referendum and it would be pointless for us to tie up our stay in international organizations, for example. for the bottom of the sea - and I apologise to all those who consider this organisation to be very important - to vote on remaining in this organisation, to remain or to remain or to perform or to do anything else in this organisation, by constitutional law. I don't see it there. Thus, I consider the general possibility of declaring solutions or not addressing an international legal issue to be necessary by a general referendum. Note that some here have also argued this week that international legal commitment is very important to whether or not we want to abolish or adopt a law. And I will set a typical example here, which has been discussed in this House in various parliamentary periods. There was a discussion, for example. on the proposal of the capital city of Prague that we will basically have legalized prostitution. Well, then we'd have to terminate the international treaty to fight prostitution. I think it's 1953, but don't take my word for it, I'd have to go back to the documents, it might be another year of the '50s, too, but I don't think I'm entirely wrong. And when it was presented here, whether it was the capital of Prague, or it was a group of Members, or it was another promoter, we always came across whether we were able to terminate this international treaty and how the other UN states would look at us. Thus, in order to resolve some international legal commitments or not, it must be part of our Act on the General referendum, and we will judge whether it is a general referendum announced by the presidential system, namely as a law, or whether it is a real constitutional law that solves it. And these are the differences that I perceive against the SPD proposal, I see the proposal for social democracy. I believe that all three prints are to reach a stage after the negotiations, either being further interrupted or being released by the first reading, so that we can work on a comprehensive amendment in that working group, and either being presented as a government bill, that is one option where the government takes it as its own and says "we will push it through in the House, we have more than 120 votes for it" and, of course, the government will have to deal with all the political parties, at least the five who had it in their electoral programmes, and then it will decide to reject this or that proposal. Because by then, any of the three could be the carrier of the proposal, because it's a complex change. [[12.30 hours]] So it's not that if we let go of the motion under paragraphs 23, 31 or 33, we accepted something here. The only point is that we are discussing this matter in substance, professionally and, of course, on the political level of the minimum agreement required by 120 votes and we want to reach a conclusion. So much for my opening word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-008-033.u4	Thank you and I now request a speech from the rapporteur for the first reading of Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-008-033.u5	Thank you for the floor. When we compare the three proposals that I mentioned at the previous point, let's say that the SPD proposal is the most radical, but the ČSSD proposal is the most cautious, so the KSČM proposal is somewhere between them. There is a wider range of questions that come out of the vote. On the other hand, like the SPD proposal, it has a wide range of bodies that can declare a referendum. There, I would recommend your attention that the government could write referendums on its own without the approval of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. This seems particularly problematic to me in a situation where the government is without confidence and could actually be circumventing the House through referendums. That's where I see the risk, which is also in the SPD proposal. My colleague Filip has already spoken about the mandatory referendums. According to the Communist proposal, there are questions about which referendum must be, so that is probably specific on this proposal. For me personally, I'd rather use the press from the ČSSD as a carrier, because I think it has the least risk, but this House will judge it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-008-033.u6	I thank the rapporteur and interrupt paragraph 33 on the merged debate.
