ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u1	48. Government bill amending Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on waters and amending certain laws (water law), as amended, and Act No. 388/1991 Coll., on the State Environmental Fund of the Czech Republic, as amended /German press 45/ - third reading I will ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on the Environment, Member Karel Tureček, take a seat at the rapporteur's table. He is also the rapporteur of the Agricultural Committee. The amendments are set out in the Parliament's 45/4 press, which was delivered on 1 March 2018. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 45/5. And now I'm asking the plaintiff if he's interested... the Minister is interested, so I'll ask the Minister to speak. Please. Mr Gazdík votes with replacement card No. 11. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u2	Thank you. I tried not to take the microphone off myself, but even with the microphone on, it's equally obvious that you won't be easy in the morning. [[It's busy in the hall.]] I've got plenty of time, but apparently you have too. [[with laughter]] So, ladies and gentlemen, let me make this brief, because it is, of course, a third reading, and I have more extensively introduced this law or amendment of water law at first and second reading, so let me just really briefly recapitulate... rather, the reason why the Ministry of the Environment disagrees with a few amendments agreed by the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u3	I'm sorry, Minister. I'll ask all my colleagues to actually take their seats. If they have something urgent, let them sort it out in the foyer, don't disturb the minister and create a dignified set here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u4	Thank you. I understand that water law isn't exactly what would warm you up so well in the morning, maybe it'll cool you down, but just hang with it for a little while. There. So let me really just briefly comment on two amendments, where the Ministry of the Environment has a different opinion than the Committee on the Environment, because in other cases we are in line with the opinion of the Committee on the Environment. The first amendment, where we have a different opinion, is Mr Kott's amendment, which calls for the amendment No. 4 which aims to unify cases where surface or groundwater is collected for the purpose of using its lower or higher temperature level in order to make the cooling or heating process more efficient. All we're saying here is that we had to deal with differences between the Ministry of Agriculture and some other subjects in the framework of the inter-ministerial and also the government. We then leaned on the side where there is support for the use of natural renewable energy sources. So here's our position different from that of the Environment Committee. The second amendment or amendments, where we are in some conflict with the Committee on the Environment, are Mr Běhounek's amendments. It concerns Amendments B5, B6. Sorry, I didn't say - it's an A1 amendment with Mr Kott. So that's the first contradiction. And the other two conflicting ones, B5, B6, when colleague Běhounek proposes a two-year delay for the obligation to ensure the disposal of waste water in a sewer-free pit by transport to the sewage treatment plant and for other related obligations. Here, because this is quite an essential matter, which, of course, concerns a number of citizens, but on the other hand, it is a matter that has been mentioned for several years, actually since 2015, when this law has been discussed, and Mr Běhounek asks that this obligation be postponed for another two years. On the other hand, we say that this obligation is not new, it has existed in the law of water for a long time and our amendment actually only specifies the wording of this obligation so that it is really enforceable, because it is not at present. And we're just saying that if this obligation is postponed for two years, I'm afraid that in the last two years, it won't change much, and we'll face the same problem. It is a matter that clearly has a negative effect on the state of groundwater, because unfortunately we know how it is in many municipalities with the disposal of waste water from the sewer-free pits, when in many municipalities it seems that physical laws do not work and the contents of the sewer-free pits are lost underground somewhere, it has been lost for many years and unfortunately the office does not have a legal title to prevent something like this. [[9.10 hours]] So the obligation is in the law, but the state is toothless in this. We are trying to put in really certain control mechanisms to ensure this. There is the opinion of colleague Běhounek, I do not take him, it is of course something I know that the Vysočina Region was already commemorating in 2016. Just please don't blame me, as Minister of the Environment, that I am of course interested in improving the quality of surface and groundwater, and that, in my opinion, is also this proposal. Otherwise, we are in line with the opinions of the Committee on the Environment, and we will also support them in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u5	Thank you, Minister. The amendments are set out in the Parliament's 45/4 press, which was delivered on 1 March 2018. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 45/5. I ask whether the rapporteur is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. It's not like that. I am opening up a debate to which I am currently registering as Mr Jan zahradník, to whom I hereby give the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u6	Mr President, colleagues, it is flowing as fast as water, the introductory words are suddenly gone, the rapporteur took it very quickly, the minister even began his speech by saying that, given the noise in the hall, the law is irrelevant, he concluded that the noise in the hall indicates the irrelevantness of the law. It's not like that. This law is extremely important, extremely important, especially because its course, its design and discussion seems to be characteristic for the last few years, perhaps several years of the work of the Ministry of the Environment. This water law is such a typical example of a proposal that has already been tabled in the previous parliamentary term. We were already discussing him. Even in this period came as such a technical amendment to meet the requirements mentioned by the Minister here in his speech. But then it happened that amendments were tabled, which significantly interfere with the most important provisions of the law. The amendments are, of course, tabled by Members. There's no other way during our trial. For example, Mr Schiller's proposals. However, we know that these are proposals prepared by the Ministry, which are actually circumventing the right legislative process. For example, Mr Schiller proposes in his proposal, which is hidden under the proposals approved by the Committee on the Environment, that in the population of the granite or the pits at the family houses, which under this law will have to be treated so that they will be taken by an authorized person to the sewage treatment plant and cleaned there - I criticised this proposal in the past period. I called for the Ministry to present an analysis of the impact of this proposal of the obligation to export drains to the cleaners to analyse whether sewage treatment plants in the municipalities had sufficient capacity. That didn't happen. The already problematic proposal is supplemented by Mr Schiller, on the basis of the proposal of the Ministry of the Environment, by the fact that these waters must not contain particularly dangerous and harmful substances. This looks very catchy, very tempting, because none of us would want to see a particularly dangerous and harmful substance flow into nature, into watercourses, tanks. Yet this important proposal, which can affect the functioning of the dry cleaners system, was thus, one can say not quite standard, I do not want to use the word bulwarkly, presented. After all, such a proposal should have been discussed in the ordinary legislative process, it should have been issued by the opposition, it should have been discussed with those to whom it will touch, that is, with the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, with the Confederation of Industry and Trade and Transport, so that it actually corresponds to the current state of affairs, and not in this way without prior due consideration. This procedure is not entirely unique. We can record - in the last parliamentary term, about two years ago, an amendment by the Ministry of the Environment, which then, I think, lectured Mr Okleštěk, was introduced in the present Waste Act, which actually caused us to be banned from landfilling waste in landfills from 2024. No accompanying laws have been approved to define the method of the gradual adjustment of landfill prices, etc., and today, when the date of 2024 approaches, there is some chaos and confusion. Ending the landfill simply doesn't have an alternative. We're not able to push through a single facility for energy waste recovery. Someone always comes to prevent it - environmentalists, citizens of neighboring communities. Waste recycling is collapsing. So this is a similar example that we now have here before us. In addition, the problem of imported waste water from the pits to the cleaners is that such waste water must not contain particularly dangerous and harmful substances. What can that bring to the cleaners? Well, waste water treatment plants will, of course, be led by concerns that if a control authority finds that they actually clean the particularly dangerous and harmful substances there, they can be fined with a fine of up to CZK 500,000, which is quite a draconian fine, which can significantly damage the cleaning plant economically. And how's that cleaner gonna do? Well, he will, of course, try to avoid this danger. This means that he may refuse to receive imported sewage from septic tanks and pits. He'll say, "Don't bring us that, there might be some dangerous harmful substances in that." He's gonna say, "Okay, if you want to bring it in here, give us an analysis of what dangerous and harmful substances these sewage waters contain, and we'll act accordingly. Either we accept it or we don't accept it. What then will the authorized driver have to do, who has issued a certificate that the citizen has exhausted his cesspool, and now suddenly they don't want to accept it on the cleaners? The Minister will certainly argue that there is an alternative that these waste waters can be purified on industrial waste water treatment plants. Firstly, they have insufficient capacity as a summary for us. Perhaps only ten industrial sewage treatment plants have free capacity at the moment. So what are we gonna do about it? And it concerns not only the citizens, the owners of the family houses, to which the sewerage is not brought, because about 14 percent of our houses do not have a sewerage system, and therefore they have to collect waste water in the waste pits. [[9.20 hours]] So these are certain industrial activities. Not the big industrial plants, they'll manage somehow, but those small business activities that also produce waste, waste water and collect them in the pits, and they should also take them to the sewage treatment plants. Of course, the municipal cleaners are better adapted to clean up commonly polluted waste water and they could easily solve this problem. Now, therefore, there is quite a major obstacle to this. This is the problem of imported waste water into the treatment plants, particularly the problem very complicated by the Ministry's amendment to Mr Schiller, that these waters must not contain particularly dangerous and harmful substances. The second problem we have here is the problem of the relief chambers in front of the sewage treatment plants, especially those of the relief chambers into which the precipitation sewers are brought. So far, it has been said that the precipitation water remains collision water, so it can be treated. It can be discharged into flows or into tanks and thus also perform the function of relief chambers; actually relieve in extraordinary collision events. Now, according to our law, rainwater becomes waste water through the flow into the mixed sewerage. This means, when such water flows into the cooling chamber in front of the cleaner, which has the purpose of course, that if suddenly the water rises in that chamber so that the cleaner is not overwhelmed, then it is possible to drain these very heavily diluted waters, where the waste water in that tank is mixed with the precipitation water, and so far it has been possible to drain the water from the cleaning plant, and thus the chamber has fulfilled its purpose. That's just not gonna be possible right now. So, of course, it will be necessary to look for the means to pay for this charged discharge of waste water, because if those waters are to be discharged in any way, it will all be charged. Also how to measure whether the water drained from the waste relief chambers, to what extent they are polluted, to what extent they are defective by the water, which, of course, will bring significant costs to the operators of the treatment plants, or will have to very quickly increase the capacity of the relief tanks, so that even during extraordinary collisions, the water will fit there. Or, that is the third option, sewer system operators will be forced to build separate systems, systems that separate the precipitation water and separate the waste water from households. Of course, this will also bring significant costs for sewer and water system operators, which, of course, are companies hired or contracted with cities and municipalities, or, in some cases, the municipalities themselves that do so, and there will be nothing left but to project these costs into the price for the water and sewer, which they prescribe to their customers. You will surely argue that whoever decides on the amount of water and sewerage is the council of the municipality, which has the exclusive power to determine the amount of water and sewerage. But, on the other hand, when an operator will have increased costs due to these unthinkable amendments, of course, well, the council will approve its citizens, perhaps keeping the water and sewerage in its original amount, it will not raise it, but that will make less money to restore the water infrastructure. So, in my opinion, these are the two most important things that we now have here before us, which we have to decide. I must say that awareness of this has gradually spread. The Committee on the Environment has yet to express itself, without having been fully well-known, and with the authorities concerned, the institutions concerned, the municipalities concerned, and the industrial sector, discussed, and thus, in fact, expressed his views on this in agreement. At the same time, in the procedure of the vote which the rapporteur will probably put forward gradually, and I would like to mention the first moment here, these proposals are voted by one vote in the block of proposals tabled by the Committee on the Environment A1 to A10. This is how the rapporteur will propose according to what the committee has given him. And then I will turn myself in and get off, or maybe I will say it here now that I would ask that we be given the opportunity, as the Chamber of Deputies, to vote separately on these matters, to vote on Mr Schiller's proposals A4, A9 and A10 separately, so that the vote on the points And in addition to these points, there has been an en bloc, but points which - I will now look again, yes, A4, A9, A10, if I am not mistaken, Mr Schiller has been voted separately. [[consults written materials]] If you consent to this vote of yours, it will be possible to try to remedy this situation. If not, there are two other ways to make things right. There is Mr Staněk's proposal, which he will be talking about, is in the debate, and the proposal could to some extent help to address the problem of cleaners and mixed chambers. Then, of course, his points, which I think are like points D, if I'm not mistaken, then we'll agree, it would be worth supporting. And then there's one other option that could be consistent with these two. At the initiative of Mr. Governor Běhounek, the Agricultural Committee proposes to postpone the paragraph, which refers to imported waste water from the pits to the cleaners with specially hazardous substances for two years. And then I propose that the same two years be extended by the same paragraph, which defines the precipitation waters flowing into mixed sewage as waste water, i.e. that this be suspended by 2021. So these are the proposals that I will then specify during the procedure and which I would of course like to support by voting. I know that the law is already dragging, and that some of the provisions in that law are good, they are provisions that we have also discussed here, the possibility of setting up children's camps in flood areas, of using water for kindergarten crops, for kindergarten activities for irrigation, etc. These are all useful things, including the fact that the law is trying to ensure the purity of our groundwater and surface waters. There's talk of charging, charging underground waters. And I have put forward a proposal that seems logical to me. If the limit is 6,000 cc's free of charge, I suggest that 6100 be paid not for the entire 6100, but only for the 100. The Ministry argues with a number of kind of factual arguments that the collection of those charges would then cease to be economically effective. Okay, I'll leave that up to you. I'm not gonna fight for it here. But these are proposals which, of course, you will certainly also notice and consider in the vote whether or not to support them. [[9.30 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude very briefly, in order to take some sense into account, to try to divide the vote on points A, to consider the support of Mr Schiller's changeling, or to consider, if that were not the case, Mr Staněk's proposal, and possibly then Běhounkův's proposal and my proposal to postpone the validity by two years as such the last rescue for those, I would say, quite complex things. Thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And next, Mrs Dana Balcarová has signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u8	Thank you for giving me the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present, on an example of the amendment to the Water Act, the practice of the Ministry of Environment, which I see as quite negative and which can be called bending the legislative process. Unfortunately, it turns out that the Ministry of the Environment is a common practice in promoting its interests through ANO Members. Out of a total of 31 amendments, 17 of them are members' workshops YES, and some are from the Ministry of Environment, as Deputy Minister Mrs Peštová said herself on the Committee on the Environment. Some of these amendments are not problematic, but, for example, Mr Schiller's amendment, as Mr Zahradník spoke of earlier, is very strange and I think it will cause many problems in practice only by its ambiguous interpretation. The committee was attended by representatives of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, who were very upset by the Ministry of the Environment's procedure, because they properly commented on the amendment, said that they had devoted a lot of time to it, and finally negotiated some solution that was acceptable to them, and finally, it was through Mr Schiller's amendment that something appeared in the amendment to the law that was unacceptable to them and that they were not able to comment on it and even to find out about it in time. A representative of industry was also on the committee and he was actually expressing himself in the same spirit. So they see this as actually circumventing the possibility of their active participation in the creation of legislation or in its comments. So that's what I wanted to mention about the practice that I find quite distinctive, and I don't think it's quite normal. I have seen how many amendments the YES movement makes in other committees, and it is not as massive as it is in the Committee on the Environment. So that's why I need to point it out here. Then I would like to present my amendment, I have already done it here once. The point is that I would like to return my amendment to the citizens' right to participate in the construction procedures for water works. I know that civil society and the public have a bad reputation for extending administrative proceedings. I would just like to put a few figures here that should prove that this is not the case, although the reputation that some politicians and political parties systematically create for them is so strong that it will be difficult to overcome. But I think it would be worth it, because associations know local conditions and history by being personally involved in the locality where they live, so they can really contribute their participation in administrative proceedings to protecting the environment rather than defending something or throwing a pitchfork into something on purpose. I think that is certainly not the case, and I would like to mention a few figures: 95 per cent of all construction proceedings will take place without the appeal of any of the participants. Only in 5 percent of all cases will the parties appeal, which can be both associations and neighbors, or even an investor, who will also often appeal. And out of these 5%, when the parties were involved in administrative proceedings, in 63 percent of the time the appeal took place, the authorities gave the parties who appealed the truth. This means that their intervention under the administrative procedure was justified and therefore had a positive impact on what was decided in the administrative procedure. So I would ask you to consider supporting my amendment, which seeks to return public participation in the administrative proceedings for the approval of water structures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u9	Thank you, Madame. Next, Mr Jan Schiller is enrolled in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been told a lot about me here. First of all, I should probably turn against the fact that I am some kind of environmental means, the Ministry of the Environment, that there are some amendments in spite of me. First of all, I have been doing waste water from professional practice for several years. And the amendment is not an amendment by the Ministry, but I admit that I cooperated with the Ministry on this amendment. It's very important to say some things here that are a little neglected, and all those who are upset actually give arguments that are completely misguided, and I would try to get it back to the level where it should belong. So, first of all, it needs to be explained that municipal sewage treatment plants are municipal waste treatment plants, urban waste water, equipped with sewage disposal technology. Drains that are transported through the sewerage to the municipal treatment plant have the same composition as the sewage that are used in the sewage tank for recreation or housing buildings. Rather, they contain a larger proportion of organic matter. This means that this amendment does not at all concern waste pits, septic tanks and cesspools used for recreation or housing buildings. From the very principle of the formation of these waste waters, the waste water is taken as sewage from the waste pits and cesspools. So that's the first thing that should actually be said here, so that we don't take people hostage, that suddenly they're gonna pay and they're gonna have to do some analysis. But I'll get to that. There are other things that need to be said. This amendment does not change the fact that waste water does not comply with the sewerage rules, i.e. those which cannot be directly discharged into the sewerage, because their pre-treatment to the level of the sewerage system is required for discharges to the sewage treatment plant, cannot be disposed of directly by import to the sewage treatment plant. And this is in force now. So I don't understand the disillusionment that they won't be able to take water to the municipal sewage treatment plant. Furthermore, nothing changes to the existing possibility of draining waste water containing hazardous substances into the sewerage if it is in accordance with the sewerage rules. Nothing changes to the disposal of waste water on designated industrial waste water treatment plants or waste disposal plants. Nor does it change the possibility of disposal of waste water as waste on municipal sewage treatment plants under the conditions laid down by the Waste Act, i.e. in the waste disposal scheme. To simplify this: If the municipal sewage treatment plant has a waste disposal permit, it is technologically equipped to do so and it can continue to dispose of these waters in the same mode, but in particular it will monitor the quantity in which it will record the disposal under the Waste Act. That's what's important for us to talk about. [[9.40 hours]] Second of all, there he is. This amendment merely highlights the groups of hazardous defective substances that should not be received at the waste water treatment plant for their seriousness in terms of potential water risks and now an uncontrollable export regime at all. The amendment also supplemented the sanctioning provisions, on the grounds that the amendment would only be explanatory, declaring and fulfilling it would be unenforceable. If we go back or explain what's really going on here. Through the municipal treatment plant, in no way does the waste that is recovered there, as it has been declared, I think yesterday that these municipal treatment plants today do not normally and reliably dispose of this waste without any problems, so I would like to disprove it - or reliably, nor do these wastes normally dispose of it. It's simple. Because these municipal cleaners are not even technologically prepared and adapted to avoid disposal of these waters containing substances such as mercury, cadmium, zinc, copper, arsenic, uranium, lead, chromium, cyanides and others. And they don't normally occur in urban waste waters. This means that from households - if anyone says there is some savo, biocidal products, that there are some disinfectants, these are common things that are also found in urban waste waters, which are led by sewers. So it's not true that if someone pours the savo into the pit, that the pit suddenly contains dangerous substances. Dangerous substances will be included if there is mercury, of course. But like I said, it doesn't normally appear in the pits. The worst part is that if these waste waters come to the municipal sewage treatment plant, they are being disposed of, or so-called disposed of, only by diluting themselves and taking small doses to the treatment plant. The dry cleaners can't handle it. It just flows through the dry cleaner, flows into the streams, rivers, waters, bottom waters, and we don't even know what we're releasing. And here is the fundamental problem, because municipal sewage treatment plants are obliged to monitor only six emission standards. It's COD, BSK, it's ammoniacal nitrogen, total nitrogen, phosphorus and undissolved substances. We see that nowhere is it given that they should control mercury, chromium, cyanide and that kind of thing. That means we put it back in the river in small doses without checking anything. And it's not true that the dry cleaners are gonna pick it up and clean it up. He can't do it. Such substances are only treated by chemical cleansing using certain floculants and other processes that simply do not have a municipal sewage treatment plant. And she doesn't have to, she's not cut out for it. But the worst part of it is that there's still a waste that's, you might say, a timed environmental bomb, because a small part of the dangerous stuff that's caught in activated sludge stays there. The sludge is drained, taken to the waste dump, and the waste dump will accept it with the impression that it receives sludge drained from the municipal sewage treatment plant, and does not expect to have any dangerous substances that I've named here. So we're actually dumping something that we don't know anything about, and it can come back ugly in the future. Then here's a suggestion that if there's zinc in the list of hazardous substances, so if you have a zinc roof, it'll flow into your sewage. I was quite amused by this because I've never seen anyone pull rainwater into a septic tank or a pit. Probably just a fool would do it, because he would fill the pit himself and export it every month because it would be filled with rainwater. So this argument doesn't really apply. But what's going on here? The reason I'm submitting this amendment is very simple. It is necessary to avoid an increasing trend in the disposal of industrial waste declared as waste water under the Water Act externally imported into municipal sewage treatment plants. It is not true that citizens will pay for all this. It's exactly the opposite. Citizens are paying for this now. Charges that partly finance the sewage treatment plant, but pay for produced urban, if you want sewage, waste water that the municipal treatment plant can reliably dispose of in costs that are calculated among the very inhabitants. But unfortunately, it is precisely the fact that waste water is brought to this treatment plant, which contains dangerous substances and is disposed of at the same price as the citizens pay. But the price should be much higher. Citizens are therefore involved in the costs necessary for the disposal of these imported waters, even if they do not produce them themselves. The waste producer got rid of it relatively cheaply, the waste company got thousands for the waste, got rid of it for a hundred crowns. As you can see, it's probably lobbying, but I don't think it's on the side of some waste water builders, but it's definitely on the side of the water exterminators, or if you want waste companies. [[Cleaners?]] The worst part is that these waste waters containing dangerous substances are really just flowing through the cleaners, and the aquatic ecosystem will mess us up, even in small doses. But it's coming together, and the doses are going to be bigger and bigger, and then we won't know what to do about it. The Committee of the Environment said, I think it was from representatives of cities and municipalities, aggressive and perhaps unnecessary reproach, that we want entrepreneurs, businessmen and businesses to discharge these waters behind the premises into the fields. If you don't mind, I'd like to conclude. Isn't that the system of dilution and flow of the municipal treatment plant just legalized discharges into those fields? I think it is. Therefore, I assume that the amendment I propose has a head and a heel. As has been said here, use common sense. I beg you, use common sense. And I would ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan zahradník wants to respond to your contribution with a factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a factual comment on what has been said here by the previous speaker, the proposer of the amendment by Mr Schiller. He refutes my arguments or arguments of those who disagree with his suggestions. I'm not gonna do the opposite, throw up or anything like that. I'm just gonna remind you of three things. First thing. In addition, in its A4 proposal, it introduces the problem of particularly harmful substances to waste water imported into the treatment plant. You explained why it was here. Mr President, tell Mr Schiller that he was trying to explain why he is proposing this as his objective. This can be understood as well. But then in design A9 places the operator of the treatment plant among the fined entities, which will allow the treatment of waste water with these very dangerous substances. The cleaners will, of course, be prevented from receiving such water so that they don't clean it, and then they won't be subject to the fine, and they'll be asking people to import it there, confirming that it's not the waters containing the particularly dangerous substances. That's a great danger. We can't stop it just by threatening this fine. The zinc is more of a problem with the relief chambers, where the precipitation water and the zinc flow, and which can cause pollution by particularly dangerous substances. And finally, my last point. So where else are these people supposed to be exporting their septics when you told them not to?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will not please President Chvojka with priority rights. There is still a factual remark from Mr Jan Bauer. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u14	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I have been working in municipal politics for the 20th year this year and I feel it is not good to listen to everything. It's not good to listen to crying things to heaven. And I just wanted to say to the margo of what Mr Schiller has said here through Mr President, it is incredible for me how the laws are formed here. This is more like through the President to the Minister. Because it is obvious that, through the framed Members, the proposed amendments, your government here, without trust, decides such important matters. If I hadn't seen the material from the amendment, where there are still clear indications that it was the officials, the head of the Department of the Ministry of the Environment, I wouldn't really have said it here, but I feel that's how it was, if I had seen it correctly. [[9.50 hours]] I think, Minister through Mr President, you just have to say here that what will be approved - I hope not, and I am talking about Mr Schiller's amendments - if it will have a major impact on tens, hundreds of people who have cesspools and have no sewers. Please say that here. Because I'm afraid that if it's approved, it will have a fatal effect. And it's your duty to say it here on the microphone that it doesn't touch tens, hundreds, maybe thousands of people who are threatened by this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My previous speaker here said he wonders in what way laws sometimes come into existence. That's what happens sometimes. But I wonder also how undignified the atmosphere sometimes produces laws, especially in third reading. Because water law is definitely a law that is very important, virtually. his novel. We have a petitioner here, but if I look behind me, there's no one here behind the government. I don't think it's entirely dignified to send in just one person who makes the law and otherwise the government shouldn't be here. I know there may be a government meeting, but I don't think it's quite right. I remember as an MP when Nečasův was a government, so the governments did on Wednesday at 4:00 p.m. when the House ended. When Sobotkův was the government, they did the government when it was the House on Monday. And I don't think that the practice that the government is just when the House is really good. So I'd like to suspend the House's negotiations until there's more than one Minister Richard Brabec here as the bringer of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u17	I have registered a procedural proposal that we will decide without debate. I'm already summoning colleagues from the O.R. I'm registering the application for check-out, of course, logically, and I'm going to ask everyone to come forward with their I.D. cards again before we proceed to the vote. For the arrivals: a proposal has been made to interrupt this point until at least two ministers are present in the hall, one of which is the petitioner, Mr. Environment Minister. I believe the number of votes has stabilized. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? This is vote number 10, registered 149, for 71, against 63. This proposal has not been adopted. Therefore, if there is no question of voting, I do not see any such initiative, we will continue to discuss this point. Another party to the debate on this point is Mr Antonín Staněk, to whom I hereby give the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u18	Thank you, Mr President. [[And I'll ask for peace in the hall! Thank you.]] Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to follow up on my second reading speech and to comment once again on an amendment which I consider to be very problematic and bad and which will have a very fundamental impact on the business sector, small and medium-sized enterprises, businessmen, but also on ordinary citizens who are not lucky enough to be connected to the sewer system. Perhaps just to begin with, I do not know whether he has added emphasis to his words or, on the contrary, to make you think about what Mr Schiller said here through the President. I would like to believe that I do not have good information when I look at the e-mail which tells me that Mr Schiller's amendment is a proposal written at the Ministry of the Environment. And I am of the opinion that Mr Schiller's amendment to this file is the author of Mr Zavadil, the head of the Department of Water Protection of the Ministry of the Environment. So I don't know who the author is, I don't know who's right, but this kind of questions what the MP here said at first. Its amendments adopted by the Committee on the Environment are marked under the letters A4, A9 and A10. This proposal prohibits the introduction of water with hazardous waste into municipal sewage treatment plants. However, this is not only the most dangerous toxic substances, but the amendment is too broad and this is the problem why we do not want to support this amendment. We had a school law here a while ago, and we also realized that such unthinkable amendments could have far-reaching consequences. And it's clear here. The amendment is so broad that it also affects completely normal waste water, which can be cleaned seamlessly on municipal sewage treatment plants. And who was lucky enough to discuss this law in the Environment Committee and heard the Deputy Minister of the Environment defending the amendment there, I would really like to hear what was said here, that the controls will be really strict and the sewage treatment plant, the municipal sewage treatment plant, really have something to worry about. As part of the committee discussions, the Ministry of the Environment claimed that the most dangerous substances were imported into municipal sewage treatment plants that could not be cleaned. The income of these waters is regulated on municipal waste water treatment plants within the operational order, which must be in full compliance with the decisions issued by the water legislation. If the Ministry thus has knowledge that these operating rules are being violated, then it should primarily carry out Czech environmental inspections. If these waters are not able to be exported to municipal sewage treatment plants, they will have to be imported to industrial sewage treatment plants which have lower limits on permitted pollution. Thus, they can quite with impunity discharge more pollution than municipal cleaners. This will make the watercourses worse and not better. Industrial treatment plants with free capacity are not enough and waste water will not be exported anywhere, we have heard that here. This may result in what I warned about at second reading, the collapse of waste water disposal. If there's no chance of simply cleaning the drain water, there's a chance it's going to end up somewhere it's not supposed to. And we don't want it to end up in the sewer system in violation of the sewer system or, worse, it's being spilled into a field somewhere. The list of hazardous substances is given in Annex No. 1 Water Act. And here are the biocides. Biocides are contained in most cleaning products, so I don't know what we were talking about a while ago. WC cleaners, savo, floor saponates, etc. This means that dangerous substances also contain common household pits and cesspools. If the municipal sewage treatment plant cleans these imported waste water, it will be fined. The proposal will therefore also affect ordinary citizens who are not connected to the sewerage and whose real estate is only waste disposals. There is a risk that municipal sewage treatment plants will not be willing to take away their waste water from people, or they will be in danger of requiring analysis from these people. [[10.00 hours]] The cost of processing one analysis of water is at least CZK 1000, so the balance of the pit costs people a lot, and if dangerous substances are found there, which is very likely, the dry cleaners will not take it anyway, so as not to put up the risk of a fine of up to half a million crowns. In any case, the disposal of waste water, the balance of the pits will cost people, which can be seen as a message to the public and voters before this year's municipal elections. What are these people and companies gonna do with the water? In Olomouc, 30 thousand cubic metres of imported waste water are seamlessly cleaned at the sewage treatment plant. Now a significant part of these waters will have to go to Otrokovice, which is a distance of 55 km, and on the way back it is an additional 110. You can probably imagine that water disposal is going to cost a lot, and we're going to be hauling waste water and sewage across the country, and we're going to pay for it, but we're not going to get the water quality anyway. What I find very fundamental is that, when discussing this amendment to the Committee on Agriculture, Deputy Minister Peštová blamed Mr Holomčík, who tabled an amendment to the protected territories of natural water accumulation, that this proposal does not have an impact analysis, so-called. RIA, where it would appear what his proposal would bring, but Mr Schiller's proposal does not have an analysis of the impact of RIA either. It is a bit strange that something on the Committee on Agriculture is being criticized by Mr Holomčík, which the Ministry will then do on its own in the Committee on the Environment. Perhaps the Ministry did this precisely to avoid preparing an impact analysis, because the analysis would show that this proposal is unsustainable. We must also realise that waste water, which contains dangerous substances and must be imported separately on the WWTP, produces a large number of companies. For example, this is the case. about almost all subcontractors of the automotive industry, the chemical and textile industry, glassmaking or also the food industry. Mr Schiller's amendment also rejected the Confederation of Industry and Transport of the Czech Republic and warned against its impact on the business sector. The proposal was also rejected by the Association of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, because municipalities are often also operators of municipal sewage treatment plants and are aware of possible impacts. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, through the President, to support the proposal that has already been made here, to set out points A4, A9 and A10 from the block of voting on the proposals under point A, as proposed by the procedure, and to vote these points separately. I would also like to ask you, through the President, to reject these proposals. If you decide to support Mr Schiller's original amendment, then at least I ask you to support my amendment under letter D2, which will allow the import and treatment of these waste waters in the municipal waste water treatment plant, provided that permission is given from the Water Authority pursuant to Section 16. This proposal of mine is a compromise that would at least help to mitigate the effects of Mr Schiller's amendment. If the proposal was rejected under points A4, A9 and A10, then my amendment D2 is completely irrelevant and then it would have to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan Čižinský is now in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to ask for a separate vote on those A1 to A10 points, because there are also points that concern e.g. Scout camps, and I can imagine that organizing camps in watercourse zones, and I can imagine that a Member wants to support one and not support the other. Then I'll ask for a separate A1 to A10 vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u21	Well, that was a very brief contribution, thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Jan Schiller. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u22	Thank you. I would only like to respond to not my previous speaker, but Mr Staněk. I said here, and maybe it didn't sound strong enough, the waste water that's in the dumps is basically the very origin of the sewage water, which means you're still confusing something here that people will have to do their analysis and that no one will just take the water away from them at the sewage treatment plants. It's not true. Indeed, it's not true, because if you use or normally operate in a house or apartment, you live and drain waste water from your activities into a sewer system, it doesn't matter how you release it into a septic tank. The activity is still the same. And you want the analysis from people who drain the sewage from normal routine to sewerage? You don't want to. So I don't know why we keep saying that people, if they take out a septic tank, they're gonna have to get their labs done, they're gonna get more expensive, and no one wants to accept it. No. Waste water from households in no way contains the dangerous substances that are listed and which I have named here, such as really substances such as cyanides, mercury and these things. Yeah, there's biocides. Biocides are contained in everything. Yes, it's a savoy. Savo is also contained in almost everything. But also realize that sava is disinfected drinking water, biocidals are used in the disinfection of swimming pools, and no one cares. The municipal sewage treatment plant will simply cope with the biocides and sava. It's not a problem enough to just kill it. But there's only one principle here. The point is that industrial waste water, the composition of which no one knows, the one who brings it, buys it from the person who produced it, for the heavy thousands, or the heavy thousands are billing it, and at the sewage treatment plant without anyone knowing what they contain at all, they're going to blow them away for a few hundred bucks. And that difference just stays with this company. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Here's the thing. And we have no control over what we're releasing. [[Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u23	I'll have everyone on the phone talking if they can keep it down. I had trouble understanding my colleague for a while when he was explaining his proposal. Mr Antonín Staněk wants to respond to his point of order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u24	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I thought that Mr Schiller would clarify his relationship with the amendment and the Ministry of the Environment, but in that case what he said, I think that his amendment is redundant because existing legislation is already addressing the issue. In Article 2 of Government Decree No 401/2015 Sb. it is said that urban sewage, etc., so I don't know what it is. [[unintelligible]] I think this is really about the adoption of the law as proposed, and the impact that we are talking about here -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u25	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, I'm gonna set the time for you, but I'm gonna ask everyone to stay calm. You can't hear the man with the word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u26	Thank you. So I'm just going to repeat the conclusion that may have died. If you are saying what you are saying, then there is no need for your amendment, because it is already addressed in the government regulation that I quoted, and I rather think that the intention is different, and as I said at the press conference, it is such a small cuckoo egg.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u27	Thank you. With Mr Josef Kott's factual remark, Mr Schiller will then respond. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I would like to respond to the comment of my colleague Čižinský. At the meeting of both the Agricultural Committee and the Committee on the Environment, no fundamental comments were made on my amendments, which are in A1, A3, A6 and A8. For this reason, I would like to think that we could vote en bloc on them because they are points that have been consensually approved on one and the other committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u29	I thank you and now, with a factual remark, Mr Schiller. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u30	Thank you. Then I'll explain the relationship. I have come up with a proposal that industrial waters should be dealt with, because from a practice where I have been engaged for over ten years, or I have dealt with the disposal of waters and sewage treatment plants, both biological and industrial, so I have come up with this proposal because it troubles all the operators of the treatment plant. If you release dangerous substances there, it kills the dry cleaners, and you just have to start it again in two months. My relationship to the amendment that I came to the Ministry, consulted with them, and, yes, we wrote it there, we didn't write it in my office. [[10.10 hours]] And on the second point, I'm sorry about what Mr Staněk, Mr Staněk, said. It is not true that this amendment is not needed. This is precisely what is needed because those who produce these wastes must be responsible for them and must also bear the financial costs for their disposal. For example, when a construction company produces waste, it disposes of waste under the Waste Act and also has to pay for it. They have to pay for normal waste, they have to pay for hazardous waste. Why should these industrialists, who release these dangerous substances into the water, be acquitted and we suffer from water poisoning? How surface, lower, so water and everything? We can't do that. So let them participate in the fact that the dry cleaners will actually be prepared technologically and otherwise, that their water will normally be disposed of as it is, and we will record them, and we will actually have an overview of where and how substances are produced and what substances we are putting back into that nature at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u31	Thank you, too. A point of fact, Mr. Jiří Běhounek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u32	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members, I have been quoted here several times with my amendment. I want to warn you that, of course, I understand the Minister completely, but in those two years, nothing has been done to clean the water. I warn you, we already have a critical situation today, as if we were in July. I don't know what kind of water we're gonna have, what we're gonna drink and how we're gonna deal with it. And for the Highlands, that's a very important thing. And if the money for the dry cleaners and other things isn't found, that was the point of the amendment to give that space. I've heard many promises, unfortunately reality is wrong. Think of me some time after there's nothing to drink.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u33	Thank you. This has exhausted the applications for the debate and the factual remarks. The rapporteur, please, you have the floor in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u34	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to draw attention to a few other issues. In the first place, I would like to read a legislative technical remark when an error occurred, namely that in point No. 32 is listed in Act No. 72/2002 Coll., on Integrated Prevention. Right to be Law No. 76/2002. So then I would suggest voting as a legislative technical amendment. I have yet to comment on the vote on the amendments that have been discussed in the Committee on the Environment, because there have been several proposals, some of which are, of course, linked. I am registering Mr Kott's proposal when he calls for a vote in one vote on his amendments A1, A3, A6, A8. Then there are comments on Mr Schiller's amendments. There I want to stress that these are three topics. And I'm mostly here registering comments on the water issues imported into the sewage treatment plant. So I just want to clarify that Mr Schiller A2, A7's amendment is factually linked, and I would suggest that we do not make any mistake to vote together. Then A4, A9, A10 is related, it is the issue of imported waters that is being criticized. And then there is Amendment A5, emission limits, i.e. Article 1, point 33. So these three circuits. And in order to make no mistake that we would not approve A2, A7 would not approve, so I would then like to propose a modified voting procedure, de facto that the resolution of the Committee on the Environment, in order to make sense, can be divided into four votes. I would still perhaps like to comment on the G3 amendment to my colleague Zahradník, where he proposes to postpone the effectiveness of § 30 para. 3, collision water, from 1. 1. 2009. [[2021?]] Here I would really like to appeal to my colleagues, because she did not discuss the issue in the Committee on the Environment, but the issue of at all the relief chambers § 38, I would say, rather the Committee on Agriculture. And we have come to such a compromise that we have adopted the accompanying resolution of the agricultural committee on this issue, where we have asked the Minister of Agriculture to adjust this issue by means of the decree on the Water and Sewer Act and to amend the necessary technical standard. We think that this will be a more viable solution, and even in the professional public, consent has been given to this solution. So I wanted to draw attention to these three issues. Otherwise, other amendments were not mostly discussed here, so there will be a vote within the meaning of the proposal of the Guarantee Committee on the Environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u35	Thank you, rapporteur. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. If that is not the case, I am ending the debate and I am asking for any final words. The Minister is interested in the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I think that, above all, colleague Schiller has made it clear that he's not some kind of environmental agent deployed, because we certainly wouldn't have taught him that well. He's really been doing this for a long time. And if you found a colleague Zavadil there, for a simple reason - because of course Mr Schiller came up with the idea and Mr Zavadil, like our legislation, simply put it in paragrafo. I think it is quite normal, and it is of course an offer that any of you have, because it is clear that the amendments are good to discuss with the Ministry of the Environment. Again, I think that colleague Schiller in the argument and in the answers has made it clear that he knows the matter for a long time. I believe you can hardly blame the Ministry of the Environment for having a surprising interest in making our groundwater and surface water as good as possible. I don't blame my colleagues at ODS. I'm used to it - and I say this without irony, because I think it's a good thing we meet somewhere like this - that they defend the interests of entrepreneurs. And it's the transport of industrial waste water to sewage treatment plants, to municipal treatment plants, which, of course, saves these entrepreneurs a lot of money. And the fact that all of a sudden, according to the novel, it's easier to control, I'm sure that's what's bothering somebody. No wonder they don't mind. But, ladies and gentlemen, I'm very upset that we have heavy metals flowing in quite large quantities, into streams and rivers through municipal cleaners, which simply cannot be cleaned. And unfortunately, it's quite legal today. That's what bothers me. And it really bothers me more than some people that, let's just say, the Union of Industry objects to that. And the Union of Towns and Villages, well, we've been discussing this for a very long time. And it has to do with one other thing in the past, and that's that there were originally to be significantly increased charges for this ride, but the charges fell out, and of course we're logically interested in making this control better. [[10.20 hours]] So, on a clear question from my colleague, I suspect, I say to Bauer -- my colleague, by your means, Mr President, for example, in the possibility given by methodical instruction and others, it will not affect exports from classic cesspools and others, because really, like those people who are letting the cesspool be exported to the sewage treatment plant today, it does not, in fact, prove any safety, just as you do not show safety when you discharge it into the sewer system. That's exactly the same thing. There is a difference among a number of entrepreneurs, who today deliberately disconnect their industrial sewage treatment plants and for much less money they are actually releasing it through municipal sewage treatment plants, which are not adapted to it at all. So what Mr. Schiller says fully applies is that then we all actually pay for it, and nature still suffers. I think that's quite understandable. And what was said here. It's not a problem today to get those municipal sewage treatment plants, and some of them have it today, they just did or expanded their integrated permit to dispose of these waste water, but under the regime not the water law, but the Waste Act. And that's when they can do it, of course. The only change is that then Czech environmental inspection can come and do the inspection. Because today, when you talk about the operating order, the operating order, folks, the cleaners, it's the operators that do it themselves. And because they make it themselves, of course, they'll just make it so that when the Czech inspection comes, it doesn't find anything, because they fill the five parameters, but no one can look for the heavy metals and more, because it doesn't have puvoir. I understand that this has provoked this debate. I was expecting her, and thank you for her. But please don't blame me for defending the tearing of the body as Minister of the Environment, and I will do so, of course, the quality of our waters. And I'm a little surprised by the pirát, by Madam President, that paradoxically, it's come to the level of one who defends industry, because now it's a clash, let's say it's really a level of environmental quality, water quality versus the current state, where, as the classic says, we've developed such a disorder that, in hundreds of cases, those industrialists are really destroying our waters at municipal treatment plants where they're not supposed to be doing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u37	Thank you, Minister. For colleagues who would be interested in speaking with a factual remark, I cannot give them a word that we are not in the debate. The rapporteur is interested in the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u38	Thank you. I would still like, colleagues and colleagues, to follow up on the Minister's words. I would really like to mention the issue of lightening chambers here. And there I would really advocate for the solution proposed by the agricultural committee that adopted the resolution. And I'll try to explain it briefly. The Czech Republic significantly improved the quality of surface waters after 1989, their cleaning. The Czech Republic has invested considerable funds in this issue. For about 15 years, you have always had the opportunity to read in the report on the state of the environment the issue of improving surface water quality year after year. Unfortunately, the last five years have been possible to talk about a certain stagnation, especially in the issue of the phosphorous parameter. And it is the issue of the relief chambers that solves the removal of phosphorus from surface waters. So I would really argue that we should accept and leave a solution at the Ministry of Agriculture and at the Ministry of the Environment, that the Agricultural Committee has committed both of these departments to address the issue and to report on the solution to this issue. We have even called on both departments to address any financial needs, claims to our mayors and mayors through an already tested line, through programming funding with credit from the European Investment Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u39	Thank you, rapporteur. I will ask you to remain with the counter as rapporteur for the guarantee committee and to introduce us to the voting procedure and then to present the various amendments and to always give the committee's opinion before the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u40	At this point, I am bound by the resolution of the Environment Committee. However, if you will allow and agree to this, I would like to propose an adjustment to the voting procedure for points A1, A10 to make sense of this. However, I will ask Mr President if I can do it this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u41	We will, of course, deal with the procedure by voting. I would ask you to make a resolution, and then you would make a proposal for a change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u42	Okay. So I will introduce you to the resolution when the Committee on the Environment adopted a resolution at its meeting on 28 March 2018, in which it recommends that the Chamber of Deputies vote in the third reading on the proposals submitted to the draft law on waters in the following order. Firstly, it would be the legislative technical regulation that I mentioned here. It is a modification of the number of the Act on 76/2002 Coll., on Integrated Prevention. Secondly, it would be the A1 to A10 vote together with one vote. At that moment, the proposals B1, B1 in the case of the approval of these proposals B1, B2, B3, B4, which is an unvoting resolution by the agricultural committee. Third, therefore, the vote on the remaining proposals from the Agricultural Committee, which are referred to in B5, B6. For the sake of clarity, these are the amendments made here by Mr Běhounek. Furthermore, the fourth vote is proposal C, Amendment C is Mrs Balcarov's proposal concerning Section 115, the issue of the authorisation of water works and water structures so that citizens' initiatives are invited to these individual authorisations. Furthermore, these are the amendments referred to in point D, which are two. Under D1, we have the said amendment by Mr Staněk, who proposes to exempt from the levy for the collection of surface waters for irrigation of forest nurseries. That is Amendment D1. In the event that this amendment would be adopted, the unvoteable amendments by Mr Kott and Mr zahradník are identical and listed under points F and G2. Sixthly, it's a D2 proposal, which is an amendment to this Section 16. Here I will also draw attention to some consistency if we divide procedure A1 through A10. Furthermore, under the seventh vote, we would deal with Amendment E1, which is Mrs Vrecionová's proposal. It's a proposal to redistribute the underground water charge. At this point, 50 per cent is valid for the budget of the regions, 50 per cent for the State Environmental Fund. My colleague proposes an adjustment of 10 % for the benefit of the municipalities, and the remainder is distributed evenly between the Region and the State Environmental Fund. I would like to point out here that, in the case of the adoption of this amendment, an unvoteable amendment under point H, an amendment by Mr Koníček, which proposes the same redistribution but at a different level. [[10.30 hours]] Then there is Amendment E2, once again Mrs Vrecionová's proposal. It is for the modification of § 36 para. 1 and 2, taking into account the minimum residual flow rate in recreational watercourses. Then it is Amendment F, which is identical to paragraph D1 of my colleague Stanek, which is irrigation of forest nurseries. Then we have a set of amendments referred to in G. One vote G1, Member of the Zahradník, § 88 letter. (b) - exemption of underground water pumping in quantities of 6,000 cubic meters, as well as for collections of over 6,000. Amendment G2 is unvoting because it is identical to D1 and F. And then there is Amendment G3 - a transitional provision. This is precisely the postponement of the effectiveness of § 38 para. 3, the issue of precipitation water and lightening chambers. Then the amendment referred to in the letter H - Member of the koníček. I already talked about him. In case the E1 is approved, it is unvoting. Then I propose amendments I1, I2 with one vote. It is Mr Holomčík's parliamentary proposal - § 28, a protected area of natural accumulation of groundwater, a proposal to tighten the protection regime. Then there is another amendment, under the letter J, colleague Bartošek - § 30 para. 7, allow entry into tier 1 protection zones for authorised persons. Then the amendments listed under K1 to K3 are. Here, I propose one vote because they're tied up. These are amendments by Mrs Krutáková, which regulate the obligations of the Water Protection Authority for the issue of the exemption. And the last amendments are my amendments referred to in points L1 and L2 - once again by one vote. It is an adaptation of § 89, which specifies the definition, respectively. exemption from the fee of up to 100,000 cubic metres for the fee period in order not to be perceived during the period of validity of the water permit, as well as extension of the authorisation for the decree on the content of the requirements of the application. So much for the procedure he discussed and recommended to the Environment Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u43	Thank you and please the proposal for a change?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u44	And a proposal for a change. On the basis of the debate and the debate that has taken place here, the allocation of votes from A1 to A10 would be four votes. In the first vote, we would vote on the amendments made by Mr Kott, who were unblemished, namely A1, A3, A6 and A8, namely the issue of management in the sanitary protection zones, the issue of tent camps in flood areas and the issue of exemption from the fee for so-called. cooling water. So that would be one vote. The second vote would be Amendment A2 and A7 by Mr Schiller, which is the issue of the easing chambers. Furthermore, the third vote would be A4, A9 and A10. This is precisely the issue of importing waste water to wastewater treatment plants and hazardous substances. And the last vote would be the amendment under point A5, once again, to Mr Schiller, and that was the issue of emission limits. So that would make sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u45	Thank you. I'll ask who wants to go to the procedure. If there are no applications, we would vote on voting as proposed by the rapporteur, which means changing the procedure proposed by the Guarantee Committee. If there are no objections, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 11, registered 176, for 173, against 1. The motion was accepted. That way, we will vote according to the change in the procedure, as proposed by the rapporteur, and please, rapporteur, on individual proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u46	Okay. First of all, the first vote would be to deal with the proposal for legislative technical regulation, which was made in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u47	Yes, please take a stand. [[Rapporteur: Agreed.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 12, registered 177, for 177, against no one. The motion was accepted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u48	The second vote will be Amendments A1, A3, A6 and A8 - Member Kott - by one vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u49	Opinion? [[Rapporteur: When I take note of the recommendation, the Committee on the Environment recommends it.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 13, registered 177, for 177, against no one. The motion was accepted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u50	The next vote would be Amendments A2 and A7 - the issue of relief chambers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u51	Opinion? [[Rapporteur: I am based on the resolution of the Committee on the Environment as a whole - it recommends.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 14, registered 177, for 93, against 24. This proposal was adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u52	The other votes are the amendments referred to in A4, A9 and A10. It is the issue of importing waste water to wastewater treatment plants and addressing the issue of hazardous substances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u53	Opinion? [[Rapporteur: The Committee recommends.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 15, registered 177, for 79, against 70. This proposal was not adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u54	And the last vote under the amendment of the Committee on the Environment is A5 - issue of emission limits. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u55	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 16, registered 177, for 159, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u56	Then these are the amendments set out in the resolution of the Agricultural Committee. The adoption of Mrs Kott's amendments makes the B1, B4 unvoted because they are identical. So by one vote B5, B6, the amendments by my colleague Běhounek. It is a problem of drainless pits and the effectiveness of the provisions to the pits to move from 1. 1. 2021.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u57	Thank you. Opinion, please. [[Rapporteur: The Committee recommends.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote 17, logged in 177, for 171, against 3. This proposal was adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u58	Then it is Mrs Balcarová's amendment -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u59	I ask the House for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u60	Amendment of § 115 - renewal of public participation in proceedings under construction proceedings conducted pursuant to § 15 - authorisation of water structures. Opinion of the Committee - not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u61	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral position.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 18, logged in 177, for 42, versus 104. This proposal was not adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u62	Amendment by fellow Member Stanek D1. It is an exemption from the charge for surface water, for the collection of surface water for irrigation of forest nurseries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u63	Opinion? [[Rapporteur: The Committee recommends.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 19, registered 177, for 176, against no one. The motion was accepted. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u64	Then it is my colleague Stanek's amendment referred to in point D2. It's an amendment to Section 16. I must point out here that this is a response to the amendments by Mr Schiller which have not been adopted. So, in my opinion, this paragraph is redundant. However, we must probably deal with the vote. I have the resolution of the Committee on the Environment as neutral, but I cannot recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u65	We can say it's unvoting. And I'm going to ask if there's an objection to this procedure. It's not. So we can move on. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u66	So we are in favour of the amendment by my colleague Vrecionová E1. It's a distribution of charges for groundwater collection. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u67	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 20, registered 177, for 62 against 103. This proposal was not adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u68	Another amendment to E2 by Mrs Vrecionová. Amendment to Article 36 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 1 and 2. Taking into account the minimum flow rate for the recreational payment. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u69	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's a 21 vote, 177 votes, 78 votes, 94 votes. This proposal was not adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u70	Then the unvoted amendment by Mr Kott was adopted by Amendment D1 - these are irrigation of forest nurseries. We are with the amendment of my fellow Gardener referred to in point G1. It is an exemption from the fee in the amount of 6,000 from the pumping of groundwater. ccs for collections above 6,000. Cabs. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u71	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 22, registered 177, for 25, against 130. This proposal was not adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u72	Then the G3 amendment is a fellow Zahradník. It is a transitional provision. It is precisely delaying the effectiveness of § 38 para. 3 - the issue of collision waters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u73	Opinion? [[Rapporteur: Unadvisable.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 23, logged in 177, for 41, versus 119. The motion was not accepted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u74	Then these are Mr Holomčík's amendments by one vote. It is a modification of § 28 - protected area of natural water accumulation, design tightening regime. Opinion of the Committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u75	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 24, registered 177, for 49, against 99. This proposal was not adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u76	Okay. My colleague here just warned me that I skipped my colleague Koníček, so I'm sorry. So now we would vote on the amendment by my colleague Koníček. It's the distribution of the underground water charge again. However, by failing my colleague Vrecionová, this proposal is a voteable one. It provides for the redistribution of this fee between the regions, the fund and the municipalities. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u77	And that's a draft number or a letter... [[Rapporteur: H.]] H. Yes. The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 25, registered 177, for 69, against 99. The motion was not accepted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u78	Amendment under point (a) J, colleague Bartošek - adaptation § 30 para. 7 - allowing entry into the zones, into the strictest 1st level zone for authorised persons. Opinion of the Committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u79	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 26, registered 177, for 45, against 110. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u80	Then the amendments referred to in paragraph K1, K2, K3, are one vote, Mr Krutáková, an adjustment to the obligation of the Water Authority to issue the exemption. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u81	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 27, logged in 177, for 39, versus 98. This proposal has not been adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u82	The last amendment is given under the letters L1 and L2. These are my amendments. First of all, it is the specification of the fee period and the extension of the authorisation for the decree, the content of the application. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-001-048.u83	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 28, logged in 177, for 170, against no one. The motion was accepted. This has exhausted all the proposals and leaves us with a vote on the bill as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on waters and amending certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 388/1991 Coll., on the State Environmental Fund of the Czech Republic, as amended, according to House press 45, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Water law]] I'm asking for an opinion. [[The opinion of both the Minister and the rapporteur is in agreement.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 29 logged in 177, for 144, against no one. The motion was accepted. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister, and I conclude this point. Let's continue with the point.
