ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-003-107.u1	107. Government bill amending Act No. 190/2004 Coll., on Bonds, as amended, and other related laws / House printing 93/ - third reading I ask that Mr Jiří Dolejš, Member of the Guarantee Budget Committee, take his place as Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and rapporteur of the Guarantee Budget Committee. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 93/2, which was delivered on 23 May 2018. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 93/3. I ask the appellant, Madam Secretary of Finance, if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Madam Secretary, are you interested in speaking? Yes, it is. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-003-107.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. The submitted amendment is already in the third reading and has been widely commented and explained in the previous negotiations. For starters, I would like to remind myself only in a nutshell of its basic objectives. The proposed amendment to the Act on the abolition of the National Property Fund is intended to eliminate all special government expenses of special privatisation accounts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-003-107.u3	Madam Secretary, we have the Bond Act, paragraph 107.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-003-107.u4	I'm sorry, I read the cancellation of the National Property Fund. I take it back, so I'm sorry. I'm submitting a government proposal for an amendment to the Bonds Act. As I explained in the first and second reading, the reason for submitting a proposal for this law is to address the shortcomings in the existing legislation on mortgage bonds and to adjust some other shortcomings in bond law, which have been highlighted by practice. The mortgage bonds are securities that only banks are allowed to issue. These are bonds that are covered by mortgage credit claims, so sometimes more generally, covered bonds are also mentioned. From an investor's point of view, these are above average safe securities, from their issuer's point of view, i.e. banks, they are an easy way to raise funds for providing mortgage loans on favourable terms. Thus, our main goal is to make the issue of mortgage mortgage bonds more attractive for investors. In the current legislative form of mortgage mortgage bonds, major institutions are missing, which are usual in other legal systems of developed Western Europe, which causes a negative assessment of the legal framework for mortgage bonds by credit rating agencies and consequently leads to lower attractiveness and lower competitiveness of the Czech Republic in this area. Two major shortcomings have been identified in the existing legislation, which this amendment removes. This is first of all the unclear scope and mortgage regime under the insolvency law, i.e. the extent of assets that will belong to the mortgage nature, especially in relation to mortgage loans payments after bankruptcy. Furthermore, it is a matter of automatic repayment of mortgage mortgage bonds liabilities in the event of a declaration of bankruptcy on the issuer's assets, or so-called acceleration. In order to remedy the above shortcomings of the current legislation, the amendment builds the insolvency law regime in relation to covered bonds and explicitly excludes the automatic maturity of covered bonds in the event of insolvency proceedings and excludes covered bonds from the substance of property. The amendment also adds to the law the regulation of the so-called collateral agent, a person representing the interests of bondholders in relation to collateral, and introduces into the law the so-called negative yield or mandatory convertible bonds. The proposed bill is not a transposition, it is a national legislative regulation, but it respects and fully complies with European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-003-107.u5	I thank the Minister of Finance and open a debate in which I have no application at this time. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. If they are not, we will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments, and before the vote he expressed the opinion of the budget committee. I'll ask the Treasury Secretary for the same thing. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-003-107.u6	Thank you for the floor. Although the material presented is quite extensive, it is thus evidence of thorough preparation and consultation between the Ministry and the banking association and other actors in this area that it has not been rejuvenated, rather supplemented, because the amendments concerned some minor inspirations, which came mainly from the area of European law. As regards the voting procedure, the Committee decided at its June meeting that it recommended that the Chamber of Deputies vote in that order. I reproduce as the resolution sounds, which means: 1. To vote on legislative technical adjustments if they are read - I will clarify the conditional when I finish it. 2. A - therefore, to vote on the amendments that the Committee on Budgets has discussed. 3. B - these are the amendments that Mrs Vostrá has read concerning the Consumer Credit Act. 4. C - that is, the amendment of my colleague Rais concerning the Act on Administrative Charges. 5. In the case of the approval of these three points, consent shall be given to identifying the relevant parts of those articles and points in such a way as to give logic. The point is that the text logic has been hacked while loading. It's really just an exact marking. So that's step five. 6. The last, sixth step would be voting on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-003-107.u7	Thank you. There will only be five of these steps, because there were no legislative technical ones, or four times about amendments and then about the whole. Anyone want to vote on the procedure? Yeah, just in case. We will decide in the vote number 42. Who's in favour of the proposed procedure? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, serial number 42 shall be 182 for 161 Members present. The procedure has been approved. We will therefore consider the amendment under letter A of the Committee on Budgets. rapporteur, an opinion. [[The Committee on Budgets recommends.]] Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] We will decide in the vote number 43, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the amendment. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 43 of the 182 present for 165, against no one. The amendment has been approved. Now, the amendment under letter B, Mrs Vostrá. Opinion? [[The Committee recommends.]] Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 44 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 44 of the 182 present for 166, against no one. The amendment has been approved. Now, under letter C, Mr Rais's amendment. Opinion? [[Also recommended.]] Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Yes. I've started voting number 45. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 45 from 182 for 161 Members present. This proposal has also been adopted. In that case, it is necessary for the Chamber of Deputies to give its consent to the necessary legislative regulation on marking individual parts. I'm not gonna ask for an opinion here, considering it's a technical adjustment. Voting 46. I ask who is in favour of expressing consent to the modification consisting of marking individual parts. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 46 of the 182 present for 168, against no one. It's been approved. We can proceed to the vote of the law as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 190/2004 Coll., on Bonds, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to the House press 93, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I've started voting number 47 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 47 from 182 for 132, against 1 Member. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the Minister of Finance, thank you to the rapporteur and end with point 107. Madam Secretary is in position because we continue with item 108. That's what it is.
