ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-004-010.u1	10. Proposal by Members of Vladimír Koníček, Stanislav Grospič and others for the Act amending Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies and on the amendment of certain laws (Act on property settlement with churches and religious societies) and Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended /German press 38/ - Second reading The point was interrupted on Tuesday 3. 10. and we interrupted him when the KDU MP took a break, so I don't know if the KDU MP will introduce us to the results of their negotiations at the outset. If this is not the case, we will continue the general debate. It doesn't look like I have anyone registered for the general debate at the moment. Mr. Výborný is reporting from the post. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-004-010.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me begin by saying that the inclusion of this item before the points that have already been firmly included in the agenda for this Chamber of Deputies is an obstructive act on the part of the petitioner, because I think, at the moment, when we are dealing with a bill that clearly has a character that is unconstitutional, instead of focusing on what our citizens are interested in, instead of dealing with the salaries of teachers, instead of dealing with the surcharges for class teachers, that seems absolutely outrageous to me. People are really waiting for us to do something concrete for them and not to deal with the KSČM pseudocauses here, not to deal with cases that seem to be moving on the edge or beyond the edge of constitutionality. So what society really expects of us is what more than 65,000 class teachers expect of us, what teachers expect of us en bloc, because the following point, that means discussing the resolution of the House of Deputies number 66, clearly speaks of a resolution being adopted here towards the government, and the government did not act according to it. Teachers were to have increased salaries from 1 September this year and salaries were not increased. So much for the introduction, or the inclusion of this point is obviously obstructive. And now for the amendment to the property settlement law under discussion. This proposed amendment, as has already been said many times, affects a situation which, according to constitutional lawyers, also moves, as I have already said, on the edge of the law and on the edge of constitutionality. When I asked the Prime Minister of this country if he could prove his remarks that the financial compensation was overpriced by 54 billion, he replied that it was based on the words of Mr Hašek, who spoke here at this counter on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Well, that argument really seems completely misguided to me, especially in a situation where, according to § 15 para. 2 refunds are calculated at the rate of 59 billion. I did not receive any specific reply from the Prime Minister, in addition to that reference to Mr Hašek's statement. In discussing the amendment to the Act on property compensation on the ground of the Constitutional Legal Committee, we agreed that it is necessary to seek the opinions of constitutional lawyers on this bill, so we did, and I consider it important at this point that these opinions should not be made known only to the Constitutional Legal Committee. It is not the House's press, or it is not normally available, and so allow me to introduce all of you to the position of these constitutional lawyers. I will begin with the opinion of the Department of Constitutional Law and Political Science of Masaryk University in Brno. This opinion was therefore requested by the Constitutional Committee and the answer is as follows: Assessment of the constitutionality of a Member's bill amending the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies (hereinafter the Act on Compensation/ and the Income Tax Act). Background of the opinion - first, therefore, the Brno constitutional lawyers dealt with the nature of the church property. It is based on the fact that the property settlement law recognised the removal of the original property to the churches as property injustice and that the property was originally owned by the churches. The compensation law did not accept the interpretation that church property was of a particular nature and that the State had certain rights to that property, particularly in relation to the Catholic Church as the original State Church, when the State had rights to that property based mainly on the original patronage rights. [[18.20 hours]] The compensation law is a valid part of the rule of law and must be respected. His constitutionality was confirmed by the Constitutional Court. I'll allow myself to comment on that position more continuously. Here is clearly what has been repeatedly communicated during the debate at the Chamber of Deputies, namely that the constitutionality of the law has been confirmed by the Constitutional Court and that the law on compensation is a valid part of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-004-010.u3	I must interrupt you, Mr. Ambassador. I would like to ask colleagues who are conducting negotiations that do not concern this bill to move their actions to the galleys or to the foyer. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-004-010.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Point 2.2. Restitution. The State does not have a constitutional obligation to restitution of property seized during the Communist regime. However, if the restitution laws are adopted, property rights will arise which the State cannot unilaterally disturb or reduce, as there will be a legitimate expectation of beneficiaries with constitutional protection. - Once again, there is talk of constitutional protection of legitimate expectations of entitled persons and it is clear that this legitimate expectation also arose with the adoption of the compensation law. Next item - settlement agreements. The compensation agreements between the State and the churches are, by their nature, private contracts comparable to those for the settlement of mutual rights and obligations. The state proceeded to natural and financial restitution and the churches gave up their property claims. The compensation law itself makes contracts with churches subject to the regime of the Civil Code, unless it provides otherwise. Now material, i.e. political circumstances, as mentioned in the opinion of the Faculty of Law of Masaryk University. Church restitution is an important political issue. They were part of the political debate after the adoption of the Equalisation Act, when some political parties sought to abolish it through the Constitutional Court or to change it. The Constitutional Court found no grounds for this. I continue with the opinion of Masaryk University, Faculty of Law in Brno. - Political debates have also come to life with the fact that the churches have sued to determine the state's ownership of property held by the regions and municipalities so that such property falls into a natural restitution. In the case of regions, these proposals were withdrawn. In the case of municipalities, they shall continue to do so. However, this is not in itself a breach of the contract, because the determination of state ownership is decided by the court as a State and not by the church body and is bound by the applicable legal order in its procedure. Here I would like to remind you that, as far as these matters are concerned at regional level, this was a helpful step on the one side as far as municipalities are concerned, it is a legitimate right for everyone to have ownership relations assessed by an independent court. There's nothing wrong with that. I continue to quote the opinion of the Faculty of Law. If the court states that the property belongs to the State and therefore is subject to physical restitution, it was in the possession of the municipality unjustly, which cannot be imposed on the Church. Not logically, because the property was stolen from the Communists by the Church after 1948. Doubt is also raised by some of the church's actions in connection with restitutions, e.g. when the Abbey in Old Brno lost its own administration and was seized by the Prague province of Augustinians, which initially did not show interest in the Abbey until it was entitled to restitution of property. These circumstances are a source of political debate, but not a source of legal solution to the already established claims of the churches under the Equalisation Act. - It is clear, therefore, that the opinion of the Faculty of Law seeks to be as objective, balanced as possible and recalls some of the questionable circumstances on both sides. Third, self-assessment. And now that's important, because that's an opinion. Possibility of a change in taxation. That is what this is about in the proposal that is now being put forward here. It is a fundamental function of the State to collect taxes on its expenditure. He has sovereignty in tax matters and can change the composition and amount of taxes over time. The nature of such a procedure has been demonstrated in the event of a change in the taxation of solar energy. This was a case where the State was not directly a solar energy producer. Thus, by tax, the State did not enter - and I underline this - into private contracts concluded by it and taxation was justified by substantial changes in the electricity market and a substantial change in the cost of setting up solar power plants. These reasons were recognised as legitimate for tax changes. Once again, I remind you that the State did not enter into tax on solar barons into private contracts which would be concluded by the State, whereas there is a treaty between the State, the Church and the Federation of Jewish Communities, and if there were to be an adjustment to this treaty, any and all of the logic of the matter must be agreed between the two parties. I have already said here during the debate at first reading that nothing prevents the government of the Czech Republic, Prime Minister Andrea Babiš, from reaching out to the other party and discussing the modification of the treaty with them, but to do so unilaterally by proposing the amendment of the law is truly unconstitutional. I continue to quote the opinion of the Faculty of Law. However, taxes cannot be used and cannot, for example, be used. lead to de facto expropriation. The State may prefer certain things in the field of taxation, e.g. tax exemptions or certain items electronically (?) in the form of taxes to disadvantage. It concerns excise duty. However, taxation cannot be used in an unconstitutional manner to prohibit certain activities or liquidation of property, e.g. in the form of a 100% or even higher tax rate. Therefore, the Constitutional Court did not recognise the introduction of a 50 per cent tax on State aid for construction savings in 2010, which it assessed by using the State tax legislation to effectively reduce State aid when the general income tax rate was 15 per cent at the time. - So there is also a reference to the connection with the attempt to tax building savings of 50 percent at the time, similar to the intervention in financial compensation to churches and religious societies and the Federation of Jewish Communities, where there would be an additional reduction in the amount of compensation. The Constitutional Court stated, and I quote from the Constitutional Court's ruling of 19 April 2011: The legal conclusion that the tax in question must be considered not as a tax but as a change of legal claim is reflected in the constitutional criteria for its assessment. If certain constitutional principles and fundamental rights serve to protect an individual from public intervention, the degree of protection cannot be lower in one of the two comparable cases only because the legislature used different markings for the same regulation. End of quote from the Constitutional Court. I'm going to continue with the opinion of the Faculty of Law. The legitimisation for extraordinary tax changes is an emergency, e.g. The imminent collapse of the state can lead to substantial tax changes. If these changes are general and affect all taxpayers, e.g. the abolition of all tax exemptions will be legitimate and taxation of a particular narrow group, in this case the churches. However, if a significant tax change is accepted in order to oppose a new political representation with the original decision of the previous democratic representation and aims at a de facto reduction of the state's contractual obligations, this is an illegitimate procedure. - That's very important to realize. The government is questioning the legitimacy of the decision of the previous democratic political representation. [[18.30 hours]] Now, a statement on the status of the state. The state is in a double position. For one thing, it acts as a senior body that imposes and collects taxes and is usually also the beneficiary of them...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-004-010.u5	I would like to ask again those who are conducting some negotiations to move into the lobby or somewhere, like the cafe or the state acts. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-004-010.u6	Thank you. In doing so, it is right that the State should not abuse its supreme position in private relations. This dual status of the state is also reflected in the settlement of relations with churches, where the state in the supreme position as legislator has adopted a law offering churches a kind of settlement and subsequently the state as legal entity has concluded contracts with churches where contracting entities are equal if the church wanted to conclude such a contract. If she didn't want to, representatives of churches, religious societies, and the Federation of Jewish Communities wouldn't have signed it. Its position as creator of tax laws is therefore not independent from the impact of these laws on its obligation to comply with the agreements on equalisation with churches. And now the question of the possibility of amending the decision of the state authority. I consider this perhaps the most crucial key passage of the entire opinion of the Faculty of Law of Masaryk University in Brno. The taxation of the financial compensation is due to the fact that the new representation of the State is not satisfied with the original decision of the Government and Parliament in dealing with the churches in 2012. The amount paid to her seems disproportionately high, which results from the general part of the explanatory memorandum of the draft law. This also follows from the Government's and the Ministry of Finance's consent to the draft law under consideration. Both the designers and the government admit that the motivation for the adoption of the law is a substantive disagreement with the original amount of financial compensation. - I have already mentioned, in my introduction, a rather misguided argument by the Prime Minister, which referred to a statement by a former Member of Hašek. I continue to quote the opinion: This replacement is considered a flat-rate one. There may be differing views in terms of materiality on its size. The flat-rate compensation in itself of the nature of the case involves a certain degree of uncertainty in determining when the church property for which the financial compensation is paid is a significant quantity. These are often land that was previously agricultural land, but now they are in a pawnable territory and have the character of building land. - It is clear here that even the amount of the financial compensation defined in the law does not correspond to the estimated value of the unissued land and property. I continue to quote: From a legal point of view, it is crucial that the state has agreed to the flat-rate amount by law as well as in the settlement agreements with the churches. The Church is entitled, even though it is not yet fully valid, and has legitimate expectations that, at the time of maturity, the amounts will gradually be paid to them at the agreed amount. The change in the political composition of Parliament and government is not a legitimate constitutionally acceptable reason for changing the property claims of persons, including the churches, towards the state. - Well, logically, if that were the case, there would be considerable legal uncertainty here, and I remind you, it would be contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which talks about legal certainty. The plaintiffs themselves and the government acknowledge that the real reason for taxation is not changes in the tax policy of the State, but a substantive political disagreement with the amount of flat-rate financial compensation. Since the government cannot achieve a change in the contract without the consent of the churches, the high-ranking tax regime is used as a way to achieve a factual change in the amount of the cash compensation. Such motivation of the State for tax treatment, namely as an instrument for implementing a private advantage by means of tax policy, is constitutionally illegitimate. By the conclusion of the compensation agreements with the State, a legal claim for a financial compensation of a certain amount was created and, if the State had paid it immediately, it would not have been taxed. The churches were therefore in legitimate expectation that the same tax conditions would apply throughout the repayment period of the financial compensation. Both the government and Parliament can change their will over time. However, if, on the basis of the government's original decision, private contracts were established, the new government cannot unilaterally abolish or amend them. It is therefore unacceptable to achieve this objective by means of the supreme influence of the State within its jurisdiction of the law-maker, including tax law. Now the content of the settlement of the relationship with the churches. The content of the settlement with the churches consists of physical restitution, financial compensation, further interest on the financial compensation and a decreasing contribution from the State. The draft law concerns the taxation of the financial compensation, including its remuneration. Financial compensation issues. Restitution of property is not an income but a restoration of the original property. In the case of natural restitution, it is a refund, in the case of financial restitution it is a replacement in money. If the case was taken unlawfully by the State, which the State recognised by the compensation law, it is contrary to the principle of the rule of law to tax the return of such property. Not even in the case of other restitutions, e.g. judicial rehabilitation, out-of-court rehabilitation, agricultural and other restitution, or any other return of illegally removed property, the return of the stolen property, shall not be taxed. - Well, that's what was repeatedly argued here. If someone steals your bike or any property, the police will track it down, they will return the matter to you, so you would probably not consider it objective and fair to be charged with the return tax you did not care for. This is a simple principle on the basis of which the question of taxation of financial compensation is assessed and, therefore, the question of restitution. I continue to quote: The financial compensation is paid to the church for the removed property, which is no longer owned by the state, but in 1991 the Czechoslovak State wanted to preserve the possibility of its extradition to the churches, and therefore the blocking paragraph of the Land Act prevented it from being transferred to other entities. If this transfer took place, it was done in breach of the mandatory legal provisions. It must be said that in the process of restitution of natural persons or sports organisations, the State, as well as other obliged persons, municipalities, state enterprises, cooperatives, etc. issued matters in kind restitution. The fact that the State, instead of a natural restitution from non-state persons to whom it transferred the original property of the churches, paid a monetary compensation is a benefit to the State for the benefit of those other persons. Now the question of interest on the financial compensation. The financial compensation shall be paid in instalments, increasing, i.e. the interest rate, the rate of inflation. Interest is income and is generally subject to income tax. The interest is not the restitution of property, but the addition of property for the fact that a certain amount of money will not be paid at the same time. It is a matter of the state that taxes revenue and which tax exempts. This also applies to interest. It is therefore possible to accept the abolition of the exclusion from the subject matter of the tax pursuant to § 15 para. 5 The compensation law in relation to the remuneration of the financial compensation, i.e. the increase in inflation, and thus the introduction of the taxation of such interest. [[18.40 hours]] The problem is that the amount of interest is not the result of bilateral legal negotiations with the State, but a unilateral decision by the State in the form of a law. If the interest is only at the level of inflation, in fact, its tax is depreciating the principal at the level of the tax paid. Although the interest on inflation is a nominal income, it is not a real income. But even elsewhere, the State taxes interest that is lower than inflation. Finally, the question of effectiveness. The effectiveness of the law is proposed from 1. 1. 2019. It is clear here that this will no longer be real, but I will finish: It is therefore obvious that the question of constitutionality of such a law as a whole is questionable and the matter will be dealt with by the Constitutional Court as part of the control of the constitutionality of the law. - Here, by the way, I would also remind one of the amendments that came out of the proceedings of the Constitutional Legal Committee, which shifted efficiency to 1 January 2020, so that there would actually be room for a possible statement by the Constitutional Court, so that it would not take effect before this decision, so that legal relations in the Czech Republic would not become uncertain. It usually takes about a year to process the constitutionality of the law. There is therefore a question as to whether the effectiveness has not yet been shifted, given that the law has not been discussed, for example, until 1 January 2020, 2021. It is wrong if the State adopts laws which it will apply and subsequently decides that the Constitutional Court is unconstitutional and repeals them. Not only would legal certainty be violated here, but there would even be financial actions by one, the other party, which may subsequently be challenged and abolished by the Constitutional Court. Then the questions of possible compensation for the application of the non-constitutional law come up. It is therefore right to limit these consequences if it is already clear in the legislative process that a legal proposal is constitutionally questionable and will be judged by the Constitutional Court. - The fact that the proposal is constitutionally controversial results from the debate here at the House of Deputies and on the floor of the Constitutional Legal Committee. It was also said repeatedly that if this law was adopted both by the Chamber of Deputies and, I recall, by the upper chamber, the Senate, it is highly likely that its constitutionality would be judged by the Constitutional Court. The solution is to prolong the legisvacation period so that the Constitutional Court has time to discuss the constitutionality of the law and so on. I have already mentioned this. It is a question, given how this law is being discussed, whether to continue to move it further. Here too in the opinion The Law Faculty of Masaryk University concludes that it should be effective only from 1. 1. 2021. Finally, three essential points from the expression of constitutional lawyers in Brno. Firstly, the taxation of financial restitution, i.e. its own financial compensation, is unconstitutional. Secondly, the taxation of the interest-rate increase in financial compensation is generally permissible, but the issue is whether the State can effectively change the level of its performance in the settlement agreements with the churches by the high-ranking tax change. Thirdly, the regulation of legisvacance is appropriate so that during the legisvacation period the Constitutional Court can assess the constitutionality of the law. So much, which was sent upon request by the constitutional committee by the lecturer Dr. Jan Svatoně, Head of the Department of Constitutional Law and Political Science of the Masaryk University in Brno. [[There's noise in the hall!]] Other institutions have also been asked for an opinion. So I would like to introduce you here to the position of Professor Marek Antoš, who sent us seven points on the admissibility of the taxation of church restitution. One. Churches and religious societies, hereinafter referred to as churches, have created legitimate expectations of payment of financial compensation at a specific level, including indexing. First, this legitimate expectation is based on Law No. 428/2012 Sb., second of all concerning the concluded contracts with the State and third of all about the decision of the Constitutional Court 10/13. Two. Any reduction in the compensation paid by the State would be contrary to this legitimate expectation and would have to be justified by particularly serious reasons, such as the failure of the State to meet its obligations due to an exceptional fiscal situation, the identification of specific and serious errors in the calculation of the financial compensation, etc. Given that this is part of the process of separation between the state and the churches, an assessment should also include an aspect of the extent to which this is a permissible intervention in religious freedom. - I believe that the state, and in the end today we have also heard it in the opinions of Prime Minister Babiš, is in excellent condition when he is allegedly being attacked from all sides, or it is evident from the Prime Minister's statements today that the situation that the state could not meet its obligations under the contracts is not really up to date here. Nor is it shown anywhere that there were any serious errors in the calculation of the financial compensation. The financial compensation was already assessed at the time of the adoption of the law by an independent arbiter. The valuation, which was indeed the result of the agreement, because not everything could be quantified into the last crown, is in real numbers, even at a level that is probably lower than if we were to assess and number the compensation for all the unissued assets. [[The noise in the room won't stop!]] Three. Proceeding from the opinion of Professor Antoš. The first issue is whether the application of income tax to the financial compensation paid should be regarded as a retroactive reduction. In that case, the previous two points and a strict review before the Constitutional Court, in which it would appear not to stand or as the application of general tax laws, in which case only a slight review would be applied, a test of extreme disproportionality. For the first variant, the justification for the proposed adjustment by the petitioners, as well as in the Government's position, but also from the media statements, is in particular the reason for the proposed modification. They can lead to efforts to "modernize" the amount of compensation that seems disproportionate to both the petitioners and the government. In such a case, the situation would resemble the case of building savings, when the Constitutional Court assessed the retroactive reduction of State aid in the form of withholding tax as unconstitutional, the opinion of the Constitutional Court 53/10. On the other hand, for the second option, it could be said that this is not a special tax, but a mere extension of the general income tax to financial compensation, even an argument could be made, but with strong reservations, which will be addressed below, that it is to remove the exemption from the normal tax regime. Four. If the Constitutional Court were to conclude that it was a tax, it would have to assess the second issue, namely whether it did not act retrospectively. Although only the following annual instalments should be taxed, not the compensation already paid, it can be imagined that all "receiving" had already occurred at the time the churches were entitled to the compensation paid, or at the time when the contract in question was signed between the State and representatives of the churches, religious societies and the Federation of Jewish Communities, when the churches were entitled to the compensation and at that time that income was not subject to income tax. Individual instalments are therefore no longer a new income and cannot be taxed. [[18.50 hours]] From the logic of the matter, this reasoning of Professor Antoš is based on the fact that the income occurred when the contract was signed. It cannot be excluded that this argument succeeds. In that case, it would in principle be an unacceptable genuine retroactivity. However, after my trial, there are other cases where an obligation to pay a certain amount takes place, for example, by concluding a contract. For tax law, it seems more typical that individual partial transactions are taxed. This would, of course, require a more thorough analysis in the area of financial law, yet Professor Antoš is preliminarily inclined to conclude that this is not a case of genuine retroactivity. Five. The essence of the extreme disproportionality test is whether the tax applied does not have a wrinkle effect, i.e. whether it is directed towards the liquidation of the very substance of the taxed performance. The general 19% income tax should be without any difficulty in this assessment. Six. The last unconsidered component of the constitutionality test is, in these cases, whether the tax violates the principle of equality arising from Articles 1 and 3 (1) of the Treaty. 1 Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. As regards the prohibition of discrimination, Article 3 (2) (a) shall apply. 1, it does not appear problematic because it does not contain any distinction that would be directly or indirectly supported by a suspicious criterion. Compliance with the general principle of equality referred to in Article 1 is more questionable with regard to the access of tax laws to other types of compensation. The question is whether a replacement can be a income at all. This is not about expanding assets, but about replacing it with a previous reduction. When we compare it, it can typically be cases of compensation for insurance payments to mitigate damages, travel refunds, and so on. Tax legislation treats this issue in a disunified manner; in some cases it explicitly states that specific refunds are to be exempted, which in fact indirectly refers to them as income, but in the light of the impact on the level of tax obligations it is identical in the result. The fact that the financial compensation paid to the churches, unlike other compensations, should be taxed could thus be found to be contrary to the principle of equality. - This is a rather complex issue affecting the tax policy of the State and the question of what can and cannot be taxed. I've already mentioned this example here in case someone's been taken away, it's been returned to him and it should pay him a tax. It really seems like a completely pointless and illogical argument to me. Seven. However, it is important to consider this issue whether it is really about compensation or whether it is about its content. whether any part of the funds paid goes beyond the value of the confiscated property and the loss of profit. This makes it a question of action which, as the Constitutional Court also stated in the Constitutional Court ruling 10/13 in paragraph 215, is difficult to answer accurately. Even if it could be shown that some part of the financial compensation is not in fact a substitute and could therefore be taxed as income, the proposed adjustment would still be highly problematic, since it applies flat-rate to the compensation as a whole, without any internal distinction. So many remarks on the admissibility of taxation of church restitutions, respectively. taxation of compensation for unissued property from the constitutional lawyer of Professor Marek Antoš. It would also be good to recall one more fundamental argument that was also raised here, namely to what, or what, is the accompanying consequence of the adoption of a law on the settlement of the state with churches and religious societies, both at that level of restitution, when what was stolen is to be returned in principle, but also at the level of those refunds. Part of these agreements and treaties is the gradual separation of churches and religious societies from the state. So, in fact, every year there is already a reduction in the amount that is paid to churches and religious societies each year. In this sense, churches in quotation marks separate themselves from their dependence on the state. I believe that this is correct, especially in a situation where many citizens of the Czech Republic do not report to churches and religious societies, so it is right that they will also not finance the operation and operation of the churches from their taxes. But what needs to be said is that these financial compensations of the church ensure not only their daily operation and operation, but also their activities. And in many ways, the activities of churches are charitable, charitable. Churches often subpoena the duty of the state in many ways, and these tasks, which they perform for the benefit of not their members or those who claim to these churches, but for the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic, must, of course, be financed from something. And they are financed, on the one hand, from the income of churches and religious societies, and then, of course, from these financial compensations, which are paid to the churches at this point in time, so that the churches are able to become fully independent within that time frame, as stipulated by the law. I believe that this also needs to be clearly recalled that it is not just about the fact that the churches will somehow become greedyly enriched. It will not be enriched greedyly, the property is valued so that churches can carry out the mission they have in civil society. For example, one of them is also a charity activity not only in the Czech Republic, but also abroad to all the necessary ones, whether it concerns the Charity of the Czech Republic, whether it concerns the activities of diacony, Adry and other similar organizations. So attempts to tax financial compensation for any reason seem very dangerous to me, on the one hand, for constitutional reasons, when it is clearly proposed to enter here, virtually. to enter into legal certainty, which would be denied, and at the same time by this proposal, there is an intervention in contractual relations that have once been concluded, and it is not possible to deal with these contractual relations by being changed only by one party. There'd have to be a deal between the two sides. And it is not known to me that in this case the Government of the Czech Republic, headed by Andrej Babiš, would act in any way. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't have time and space to introduce you to all those positions that the Constitutional Legal Committee requested. I believe that if you turn to the Secretariat of the Constitutional Legal Committee, you will receive two more opinions. To be fair, I must say that one of the four, and that was Dr. Jan Kudrna's position, was rather that Dr. Kudrna - and here I would also like to quote, in some way, not just the two opinions that are negative. Dr Kudrna states: "I must stress that the outcome of any legal proceedings cannot be foreseen', which applies, of course, to proceedings before the Constitutional Court, "but I now believe that the proposal by Members of the KSČM mentioned in the press of the Chamber of Deputies No. 38 in the current parliamentary term is not the kind for which it would be obvious that it cannot stand in any proceedings before the Constitutional Court. On the contrary, I consider that, in view of the above case law of the Constitutional Court, it can stand." It is a kind of misleading position of Dr. Kudrna, but I note that he is completely alone in this sense from the position of both the Faculty of Law of Charles University in Prague and the Faculty of Law of Masaryk University in Brno, and from the opinion of Professor Antoš. However, I considered it fair to the plaintiffs to mention, at least this briefly, Dr Kudrna's position, which, after all, is partly different from those dissenting opinions, the opposite ones. [[19.00 hours]] So many acquaintances. If you would like to know the detailed opinion of Dr Kudrna, please contact the Secretariat of the Constitutional Legal Committee. Your opinions will certainly be sent to you for assessment, so that we can actually objectively decide on this proposal whether or not it is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic from the point of view of constitutional lawyers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-004-010.u7	I'll read the apologies because I didn't have 30 minutes of space to read them. So I'll restock it. Mrs Lenka Kozlová apologizes because of illness today, Mr Dominik Feri apologized until the end of the day, for personal reasons from 18.30 to the end of the meeting Mr Mikuláš Peksa apologized to the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch from 18.30 to the end of the day. And this concludes today's meeting day, because we agreed that it will be within 19 o'clock, and tomorrow we will start again from 9 o'clock. Have a lovely evening.
