ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-006-006.u1	6. Government Bill on the Distribution of Insurance and Security /House print 48/ - second reading Under the authority of the government, I ask Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová to give us this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-006-006.u2	Thank you, Mr President, hello, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, following the first reading of the House Press and its subsequent discussion on the Committee on Budgets, to introduce you to the Government's proposal for a law on insurance and reinsurance distribution. This proposal is a transposition standard implemented into our legal system by the European Insurance Distribution Directive. However, the draft law also contains elements of national regulation that respond to certain specific problems of the domestic insurance market, and their common objective is consumer protection. These problems are mainly damage to clients in the negotiation of life insurance, the problem of low professional qualifications of insurance distributors and significantly limited supervisory instruments of the Czech National Bank as a competent supervisory authority. The core increase in consumer protection in the negotiation of insurance products is mainly to strengthen the liability of insurance undertakings and insurance intermediaries for the quality of their distribution network and, further, to ensure that the client is informed in a clear and transparent manner about the essential aspects of insurance offered to him. This applies mainly to the sale of capital and investment insurance, which are products with which the so-called problem is most associated. Reconfidence. That is why we are introducing a standardised form that should enable clients to find out more easily in insurance offers and to evaluate the benefits of the insurance product. In line with the adjustment applicable to consumer loans and the capital market, a new uniform standard of expertise, including its verification methods, is also applied. While the existing system of requirement for the expertise of insurance distributors is based on formal verification of theoretical knowledge from all insurance sectors, the new law, on the other hand, stresses the need for depth rather than the breadth of the necessary knowledge and the related practical skills that are necessary for qualified negotiations with the customer. On the amendments that have been proposed and discussed in the Committee on Budgets, I gave a favourable opinion in the vast majority, as I consider them to be a compromise between the interest in strengthening consumer protection, effective supervision and as little as possible the intervention in existing business models of insurance companies and insurance intermediaries. I did not support only two amendments when one concerned a change in the regulation of the remuneration of insurance intermediaries in life insurance and the other, a legislative regulation which, from my point of view, does not have anything to do with the envisaged materiality. On the issue of regulating the remuneration of life insurance intermediaries, I would just like to add that the legislation in force was adopted following complex expert and political discussions that took place during the review of the amendment to the Act on insurance intermediaries and amendments to the Act on Insurance in 2015 and 2016. This is therefore a complex compromise that we do not consider desirable at the moment, rather because it only works in practice for about 15 months. Further amendment in such a short period of time would only further deepen the uncertainty that the addressees have been exposed to by regulation on this matter for several years since the professional and political debate on the new regulation of distribution in insurance has been going on and on. Therefore, the Czech National Bank also did not agree to this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-006-006.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We ordered this proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as press 48/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Juříček, take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-006-006.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I have to say that this material turned out to be quite more complicated than we thought. The insurance company revolves around CZK 330 billion, so we had to hold a meeting with the Minister and with her authorized people, both the Association of Insurance Companies, distributors of the Czech National Bank, Chambers, etc., which resulted in seven of my amendments, which were discussed in the Committee on Budgets, where they received overwhelming support. I must thank all Members for the TOP 09, ODS, Pirates and SPD for the comments that we have gradually implemented in these seven amendments, so the result is the document you have. However, I must point out that in a detailed debate, we have still used some of the words in order to make it compatible with the Act on Insurance, so in a detailed debate, I will read two other amendments, which you have under numbers 553 and 552. Otherwise, of course, I would recommend that the entire material be released for the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-006-006.u5	I also thank you and open a general debate in which I have no application, so I am ending it. I don't think the final words are necessary. I am opening up a detailed debate and please the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-006-006.u6	Thank you again. Just to mention the two amendments that I have tabled today. It's just an adjustment, as I said, to the Insurance Act, which replaces point 6, which was the proposal specifically for the distribution of insurance and reinsurance, in place of GDPR, so that it fits. So that paragraph 7 is regulated, including distributed insurance, including their birth numbers. As far as point 8 is concerned, only a few words are being translated to see if they are processing in connection with the distribution of insurance. That's Amendment 553. And Amendment 552 is essentially an amendment that complements only legislative technical adjustments and tries to simplify the text of the law and releases several paragraphs so that they are not unnecessarily redundant. So that's all for the press 48 on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-006-006.u7	Thank you. Furthermore, I have no application for a detailed debate, so I am ending it. Let me ask you about the final words. No need. Nothing voteable came up, so we can end this point. Opening point number
