ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u1	11. Draft of the representative of the Moravian-Silesian Region for the Act amending Act No. 128/2000 Coll., on Municipalities (General Establishment), as amended /house print 36/ - first reading The Government's position on this proposal by the Moravian-Silesian Region has been delivered to you as House Press 36/1. Under the authority of the council, the bill will be presented by the Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region. I'm asking if Mr. Governor Vondrák is present? [[Information off the microphone.]] Yes. At the same time, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Jakub Janda, to take up the position at the rapporteur's table and to address the proposal. I'm going to ask the Member and Governor Ivo Vondrák to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u2	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Now I don't know if I'm speaking as an MP or as a captain. In any case, I am here to ask you to support the law that we want to change the wording of the municipal law, in the sense that we want to extend it to one new statutory city, which is the city of Třinec. I would like to say that the city of Třinec is one of the cities in our region, which is really exceptional in its own way. Today it has 36,000 inhabitants. There are only two other cities of this size that are not statutory cities. And history begins in 1444. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The reason why the city of Třinec asked -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u3	My colleague, Mr. Governor, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. I know we've dealt with the previous point in a strange way, and there's quite a lot of noise. I'd like your opening words to be done in a dignified environment. I will ask colleagues on the right side of the House to transfer any discussions on other topics to the foyer. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that this city is committed to great development. And it comes from this, I'd say it has an exemplary symbiosis that industry works there - traditional industry, heavy industry, which is one of the largest employers in our region. It's developing on the sports road. We all know the hockey squad, or the hockey team of the Thirteen-Eleven Steelers. Of course, it is a city that is developing culturally, and I would also like to say that it is a city that is dedicated to the development of so-called smart technologies. It is a city that I consider to be exemplary in the way sustainable development is being implemented. I would therefore like to say that the fact that this city has asked and the regional council has de facto supported this proposal clearly shows that they want to further develop through the use of European funds, which unfortunately are often a little, say, stingy or, respectively, limited to non-statutary cities. So the aim is to provide some better access to the resources that are now hidden in various instruments such as ITI, which means integrated territorial investment, like operational programmes used to be. So I believe that this is something that should help this city, and I would like to say that last but not least, it is also about prestige and motivation for this city to develop further. I would like to say that our country hasn't had it easy, it hasn't had it easy and it can't have it for a while. But I think that Třinec is an example of how these disadvantages and burdens from the past can be dealt with well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u5	I thank the Governor and our colleague, Ivo Vondrák, and I will ask the rapporteur, Jakub Janda, to present his report for first reading. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u6	Good evening, Mr President, honourable Members. The amendment to the Law on Municipalities, which we are discussing here today, and the petitioner of which is the Moravian-Silesian Region, which, according to Article 41 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, is entitled to submit draft laws to the Chamber of Deputies, is, in essence, more or less formal. This is not a wider organic change of paragrafo text or a change in the factual nature of the law, but a supplement to the list of statutory cities, namely the town of Třinec, i.e. the inclusion of the city of Třinec among the statutory cities. [[18.30 hours]] The current state of the law on municipalities explicitly lists the taxative list of statutory cities in the Czech Republic, i.e. cities, which are generally bound by the decree, can break down their territory into urban parts or districts. This means that, if necessary, interest, necessity or any other objective reason on the part of any city, a generally binding decree on the breakdown of its territory needs to be supplemented by this taxative list and therefore amend the relevant law on municipalities. This initiative was inspired by the city of Třinec itself for reasons already mentioned by the promoter. Needed to add, after thorough consideration and analysis. This initiative dates back to 12 September last year, when the city council of Třinec approved with its resolution a request addressed to the council of the Moravian-Silesian Region, under which it belongs, on the proposal for amendment of Section 4 of the Municipalities Act, i.e. supplementing the list of statutory cities about the city of Třinec. The representative of the Moravian-Silesian Region granted this request at its meeting on 14 December and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies on 18 December. As I said before, the municipal law provides a taxative list of statutory cities, which are 25 and the capital of Prague on this date, which has a unique position, since it is not considered a classical statutory city from the point of view of the municipal law. Of these 25 statutory cities, only seven of them use the privilege of breaking up their territory into urban areas or districts. The status of the statutory city is more of a matter of prestige, dignity and, above all, the importance of the city as a given regional centre and also of importance within the territorial breakdown of the Czech Republic. At present, Třinec has the status of an extended municipality, on whose territory the financial office, the employment office and other institutions are located. It is also a fact that due to its geographical location it forms one of the natural and important centres of the Moravian-Silesian region. The administrative district of the city includes 12 municipalities, which have an office in Třinec. This character thus belongs to one of the largest cities without the title of statutory city, and there is therefore no objective reason, at least from the point of view of public administration, why the city of Třinec could not claim this title. It cannot be forgotten that the Třinec effort to become a district city in the past gives this step weight. As far as the specific experience of past years is concerned, this change is not unusual. By the change of law in 1990 there were 13 statutory cities in the Czech Republic and de facto the capital city of Prague and by successive changes from 2000, 2003 and 2006 the status of the city was allocated gradually to another 10 cities. The last such change was 2012, when Jablonec nad Nisou and Prostějov became the statutory city. From a legislative point of view, this amendment does not result in any significant accompanying legal or other activity for both the city and the State. There is also no increase in responsibilities or increase in significant expenditure on both sides. The step and will of the city of Třinec to be included among the statutory cities seems logical for the reasons mentioned above. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. With priority rights, President Stanjura is entered into the general debate. After that, Mrs. Golasowská will speak. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u8	Thank you for the floor. So far only Members from the Moravian-Silesian Region speak. It's quite logical. But I would like to say that we have no problem with the bill proposal, but I would like to add a little bit to Jakub Janda's intelligence report. I'm from Opava, the statutory city, we'll be part of it, the statutory town originally meant that there was a statute that was broken down by it. Unfortunately, over the course of time, the condition basically disappeared and statutory cities were created only by the fact that a majority was found in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. It's not even systemic, it has no logic, but there's no reason for Třinec to join the statutory cities. The question is whether it's a good thing and whether these cities should happen to be 80 or 205, because we have 205 triple municipalities and we would find a spacious area and the other municipalities that fall between them. In principle, there is no difference except in terms of nomenclature. It will no longer be the mayor and vice mayor, but the mayor or mayor, in our case, we are talking about the future mayor if this could happen in this term, and the deputy mayor. I understand that in some European subsidy programmes it is beneficial to be a statutory city. I remember it as Mayor Opava, as we lobbied, we found the right Eurospeek, and we started doing IPRM, integrated city development plans. To do that, we found soul mates in Brussels, let's say it was open, but it meant a very simple thing - the money was earmarked for a particular city and the city competed with itself, which means the council decided how to use the money. It is a pragmatic and correct approach, and I understand that someone else wants to do it exactly the same way. Therefore, I am not calling to complicate the bill, but I think, for example, that in the Public Administration Committee, there could be a debate outside this bill, whether it is reasonable to have municipalities, cities, statutory cities and the capital of Prague. Surely there are well municipalities, surely there is well the capital city of Prague, the question is whether the other two categories do not combine into one. We still have cities to remember this term. I don't know what else to call it. We do not defend ourselves from the debate, but logically I expect Members from other regions, not just from Moravian-Silesian, to be able to propose other major cities in the region. And I understand that. I don't want to make it ironic. I just want to say that we should be similarly helpful. That history, when the statutory cities were created, my city had the privilege of being there from the beginning, just like Ostrava, so the reason just went away. I don't know why it stopped insisting on status and city breakdown. I wasn't here when the House's decision was made by another and another statutory city. It had logic when the regions were created, we had 14 regional cities, some of which were statutory, some of which weren't, that's where the logic was. But then there was another one. However, if you support Třinec, as the governor of our region suggests, also the MP, and as the rapporteur from the Moravian-Silesian Region suggests, and I recommend it, the most statutory cities will be in the Czech Republic where? Further to the Moravian-Silesian Region. It already has the most statutory cities there today. And I think our country deserves it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u9	Mrs Golasowská, who is duly enrolled in the general debate, will also speak. Mr. Adamec will be ready. At the same time, I am asking the House to maintain some peace so that we can all hear what individual speakers are saying to us. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u10	Thank you for the floor. Have a lovely evening, co-workers, colleagues. I am very pleased that it has yet to come to this point. I am pleased as a native of Třinecka and also as a representative of the town of Třinec and as a citizen who lives in Třinec. So I also very much intercede for you to support the bill, and I beg you to raise your hand for it. As Mr. Governor has already said here - I will try to shorten it so that we can still vote until 19 o'clock, so only briefly - Třinec is the centre of industry, also sport, culture, there is also a great development of social services, but what I would like to say is the city of Třinec also provides administration for the territory of almost 60,000 people, which is 12 municipalities around the town of Třinec. There was also the question of clean mobility, the question of smart cities, when the city of Třinec was actually the first to introduce clean mobility and smart feelings. At present, we have, for example, ten electric buses in the city that have made the environment in the city more efficient. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] [[18.40 hours]] The city of Třinec is also characterized by the courage to engage in courageous things. Several important investments have taken place in the city in recent years. These are, for example, important infrastructure projects beyond the city's borders, such as the reconstruction of the underpass under the railway, the construction of the Balina industrial zone or the huge project of the revitalization of the Olš basin, the railway stop Třinec, the integrated exit centre and others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u11	I'm sorry, madam. I'm going to interrupt you for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not create a level playing field here for each speaker. The noise in the room really goes beyond bearable peace. I beg you to stop discussing who is behind the speaker's desk and who is the only one here to speak. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u12	Thank you. As has already been said here, the inclusion of the city of Třinec among statutory cities should also bring financial effects. In the European Union's 2007-2013 programming period, the Regional Operational Programme of the Cohesion Region of Moravia-Silesia enabled the statutory cities of our region to implement so-called integrated urban development plans, where five Moravian-Silesian statutory cities could decide on their own to target a small part of the European funds in the city, based on an integrated plan developed by the cities themselves. It thus gained an advantage in the form of a reserved allocation of European funds, which it no longer had to compete with other applicants for European support. In the current period 2014-2020, the city regained its role, this time thanks to the new instrument, the so-called integrated territorial investment. The five statutory cities headed by the statutory city of Ostrava form the core of the Ostrava agglomeration. After an intensive effort, the city of Třinec eventually managed to include in this agglomeration. However, if the city of Třinec had the status of a statutory city, its inclusion in the Ostrava agglomeration would probably be significantly easier. Today, cities are colluding on the selection of projects that receive European support and can make it easier to make use of multi-fund funding. Experience from past years shows that the Union of Cities and Municipalities and its Chamber of Statutory Cities plays an important role in negotiating the form of European funds in the Czech Republic. Active participation in this grouping may give the city of Třinci an opportunity to influence the role the city will play in drawing support during the period 2021-2027. So much from my side, and once again, I would like to ask you to support this proposal and, of course, I also invite you to the city of Třinec, because I think Třinec is, as we say in Silesia, a "good money into life." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u13	Another party to the general debate is Mr Adamec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u14	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I am pleased to learn everything that is going on in Třinec, what a fine place to live. I thought there were Třinec ironworks and that they wanted the statutory city. But seriously. I have no objection, of course, to this, I say in advance, if the honourable House decides to grant the title of the statutory city to the city of Třinci, I will certainly not perceive it in any negative way, but I have something to say about it. You know, I've been in Parliament since 2002 with a break, and there were already various requests to promote cities to statutory cities. As long as it was a big city that was divided into urban areas, I saw it as a practical, pragmatic thing, because from the point of view of managing those big cities, it was definitely an advantage. On the other hand, I am from the Hradec Králové Region, where Hradec Králové is a statutory city, but it has only one district, one part of the city, which means there is a classic one council for a hundred thousand city and works as a council in every other city. You know, I don't know if it's just a question of prestige, because I don't think any of this is going to happen right now except that instead of being mayor, and it's going to be a statutory city, but I have to ask myself, where we're going here in the appointment of statutory cities, because in Slovakia, it's gonna be easy, all the cities have mayor, the villages have mayors. We just divide it here, we get to a town with 36,000 inhabitants, and there are already considerably more such cities in the Czech Republic, and they are certainly not insignificant cities. In many cases, these are the cities that are the second in size in those regions, and certainly if we go this way, then we have to ask ourselves whether these cities, which have their meaning in the region, I would say that some of them are similar to Třinec, some of them may boast about something extra, but it's a question of course of some personal approach, a personal assessment, if then, when these requests come, because I'm afraid the avalanche can tear it down, if the House starts looking at it the same way as the Trinec today, or if it chooses another strategy and says it's enough. Really, I wanted to say in the beginning: I also want the town of Trutnov, 33 000 inhabitants, the second largest city in the Hradec Králové Region, the 11th largest city in the Czech Republic, an important centre in the Hradec Králové Region. But I'm not gonna do it, I'm not gonna do it here, I'm gonna support the Trinity because I'm collegial with other cities. But we definitely need to ask ourselves this question and think about what we will do about it in the future. That's what we have to say here. And I think now is a good time to say whether we want big cities or larger cities, regional centers, to be statutory cities in general, and I think that this is a legitimate question, or whether we want to decide here by subjective impressions or by who, which Member or Member from which region comes or from which city. I've heard a lovely speech here, a patriotic expression by the inhabitants of Trinca, or the ladies who were born there, lived there, that's right. I'm glad people are proud of their cities. It's okay. But let's ask what to do next. It's really something that should deserve some more analysis, or we should say that the statutory city has lost its meaning by not sharing the administration, the circuits, and that at this point, it doesn't really matter whether it's a statutory city or it's a city itself. You need to ask yourself that question. And I'm definitely not gonna put up a counterproposal here, I said that at the beginning of my speech. I think that whether the statutory city of Třinec is, eventually I was in it, I know the city, I know the Třinec Ironworks, I think it's a town where we can vote on it with a calm conscience, but let's ask ourselves whether this will cause some sort of avalanche or whether this should not be solved by some more systemic solution, where the cities en bloc would be determined at the same time, depending on the places in the region they occupy, or whether to do it as in Slovakia, that the city simply has a mayor and the village has a mayor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u15	With a factual remark, Mr Birke is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u16	No, don't worry, not really. Thank you for the floor. I'm not really going to ask for Mayor Náchod, no way. But I agree with my previous speaker, and perhaps all the more I would like to appeal to this - you know, what my colleague said by you, mayor Adamec, as mayor of Trutnov, so we are neighbors, and I must say that we are both actually in a town where we have a large agglomeration, where we have 36 municipalities under us, he has 100,000 people with a fallout, I have an 80,000 fallout area, and then I need to compare another threesome, which is very small, which, of course, is disproportionate, especially with the performance of money for state administration. This means that I would really appeal here, maybe start a debate, that this should be taken into account in some way. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u17	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by the Member, actually in this case Mr. Governor Vondrák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u18	Thank you. It's just a short one. I totally understand the argument. I think it's justified. I think we can talk about this. However, I have such an unpleasant feeling that in recent years, and maybe even more than ten years, we've always been trying to set everything on some criteria in some Excelian tables, how many residents it's going to have, this city, how many circuits it's going to have, if it has circuits, it won't have circuits, and I feel like there's some sort of control mechanism for not having an avalanche to tear down. And that control mechanism is precisely the regional council, which, in some way, has to recommend and prepare the proposal to supplement statutory cities by a specific city. One more time, though. I'm not resisting it. I'm just defending ourselves from simply creating some complex mechanisms in the evaluation in the Excel tables, where it will multiply coefficients, divide etc. I'm really scared of this. We experienced it on academic grounds, where we had various coffeejacks to evaluate science and research, various coffeejacks to see if anyone could be a lecturer or professor. I just feel like there's some kind of human dimension to whether or not this town deserves it, and I think at the moment it's in the hands of the council to make that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u19	Thank you. Mr Luzar's point of fact. It's not. That's how he withdraws his application. You report properly to the general debate. Yes. Please, you have the floor. The general debate shall be open.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I may be here, albeit a citizen of the Moravian-Silesian Region and a frequent visitor of Třinec, I may speak a little differently, albeit in the spirit of what has been said here by colleagues, experienced mayors of smaller towns in the Czech Republic. Thirty-three thousand inhabitants. Maybe less, because it's a 2015 figure. Perhaps even more, as has been said here, because it is one of the few cities that has a heavy industry in Ostrava and recruits people. But the 35 grand is pretty important. I therefore looked for why a city of this type would like to become a statutory city. I would like to emphasise - the statutory city of the territory not divided. This is still an important figure because the statutory cities are territorially divided. Třinec was a territorially divided town historically but ceased to be a territorially divided city. So I was wondering what led to the Třinečák. Probably that they would like the surrounding communities to come back under Třinec and become territorially divided, I am talking about Vendryni, Ropici, Bystřice, Nýdek and Hrádek, which are in the area of Třinec, which would raise the population of Třinec to a level that could be significant in terms of the budgetary determination of taxes. So within the limits, when the city crosses a certain boundary and reaches more money from this RUD, it could somehow prosper more. I don't think that's quite the case, because they can't reach that line. And most importantly, I miss this request and the expression of the other surrounding municipalities that it is precisely the reason to become a statutory city. In other words, how the city can get new citizens, you will simply be preserved by the mayor, you will have your own council, yet you will get the advantages of a statutory city, you will have the power of a statutory city, the possibility of developing a statutory city, as indicated here in the example that it is actually the development of this area and the development of this city. So I am missing this, and I will be very happy to hear the argument from these surrounding towns of Třinec at second reading, whether it is the engine that we would like to become part of the statutory city. The second thing that occurred to me is when I say slightly local representative, it's called. The remuneration decree. It is set at some percentage by population and there is a limit for cities between 20,000 and 50,000 inhabitants. It is clear that Třinec, if he has 36 thousand inhabitants, is somewhere in the middle, and even if he had gained weight in those communities, he is unable to exceed the limit of 50,000 inhabitants. That's quite unrealistic. But what's interesting here is that there is a category of municipalities over 100,000 inhabitants and unstructured statutory cities. In other words, here, with this vote, Třinec gets to the level in this table of cities, which suddenly have either 100,000 inhabitants or are statutory cities. So it will quite greatly help itself within its, say, internal operation, if I do not want to call it the functioning of councillors and municipalities. Because the differences in the tables are obvious here in this breakdown from the decree. So I ask what was the engine and motive of Třinec, the 35,000th city, to ask for a breakdown as a statutory city. Either it is a breakdown that the statutory city really wants to be structurally divided with that style, in other words it will offer the surrounding municipalities "come to us" and then I will raise my hand and vote in favour because I see it as the meaning of statutory cities, in other words, the statute divided so that the government goes closer to people and works for people. Or maybe it's just the way my colleagues said, too, to have the mayor's chain and call yourself Madam Mayor, Mr. Mayor. And this also has to do with the shift that suddenly in this table set up by the decree I get to the level of the hundred thousandth city by this only operational measure, and in that table I will continue from the mayor, the deputy to the rank representative in some spreadsheets. That is the question that is bothering me on this issue, which is why I will be very happy to have the opportunity to ask it in the course of the discussion, and I will be deeply pleased to apologize to all the Třinečák if the engine of the change and the request is really for the inclusion of the surrounding municipalities, because I see in this the very chance of developing the region, simply the development of Trincek as such. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u21	With a point of fact, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u22	I'll react really. I'm sure Trinka's motivation isn't that the mayor will have three thousand more prizes a month. One. Two. Rewards of representatives are paid by every city or community from their budget, it is none of our business how they construct the budget in Třinec and what they use it for. It is not true that if a statutory city or a city exceeds the population, it receives more money. It's only true about that one person. You have 30,000 RUD boundaries, so you have a sum by 30,000, and if you have 30,000 out of one citizen, you get more for one, not all of them. That used to be. You'd be right about that in 2011 and not in 2018. Třinec does not want to accept other municipalities in its territory. You didn't get it at all. This is the development of territory and a joint project. It's not about these communities becoming part of Třinec. I don't know how you figured that out. That's unrealistic. If Třinec accidentally wanted it as if he didn't want it, then the municipalities, not the neighboring community, would decide it. She can't come and say, "We're going to join this community today." And I know what I'm talking about. There are eight municipalities in Opava, these are urban parts that are part of Opava, but that was a completely different story. So the reasons are clear. He said them both to the governor and to the rapporteur. And I would ask that we not bring this into the debate that the mayor of the community will get four or five thousand more. This is undignified, and I think it offends the leadership of the city of Třinec, in which the ODS does not sit to be aware. But with all due respect for self-government, it's their money, but the motive is definitely different. And ask those who understand European funds, and I talked a little bit about it with the IPRM. When you use the right Eurospeek, you're finally able to get more money into that territory. And this is the motive led by colleagues from Třinec, that they filed this request and the Regional Council, if memory does not deceive me, unanimously supported this, including the opposition, including the Communists in the regional council. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u23	We are now in this situation. We have two factual points ahead of us, Mr Vondrák, Mr Luzar, and Mr Martínek, who is due for the proper debate, is on the 19th hour. Mr. Governor Vondrák, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u24	I'm being brief. I'll say it again. As an educator, I'm used to repeating, repeating the mother of wisdom, the father unknown. The reasoning is clear. It is a kind of easier approach to European funds and the development of the city itself. Two. Who knows the Třinečák, knows they're proud citizens, and they're basically interested in the prestige I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u25	Thank you. Mr Luzar, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u26	I will have to respond very briefly to my colleague Stanjura through you. I've read the explanatory note that's written on it. It says it won't cost the local budget an extra penny. There'll be a few, but that's not what I was aiming for. I've been trying to analyze what's leading the Thirties and how far. This is where we talk about access to European finance. Yes, there was also a primary, there were five statutory cities that shared some kind of contribution. The sixth city can't be put into this because it was the ideal project approved for those five cities, and with huge problems. And to say that there's going to be six of them in the next budget period, and that the money is going to split, it's not exactly that. It has been negotiated purely for this budgetary period and others are not at all known how it will be. I mean, it's falling, too. The last option really is, and here I welcome if the other municipalities around are interested in joining Třinec. So I want to get to the point of why the 35th city wants to become a statutory city compared to other cities that have comparable or more inhabitants, so that we don't rip up a bag here with requests that we don't sign up for more and more cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-005-011.u27	Thank you. It's 19 o'clock, so we're interrupting this point. We are in a general debate which we have not completed and to which Mr Martínek is signed up. I'm of the opinion that today's meeting is over. I'll meet you tomorrow Wednesday 28th. 2:00 in the morning. The first item we are going to discuss is a fixed Senate draft income tax. Have a good evening.
