ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u1	29. Government bill amending Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on Recording of Sales, as amended, and Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended / House print 205/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please take the floor again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the bill amending the Sales Recording Act and the Value Added Tax Act. The main reasons for the amendment to the Act on Recording of Sales are that it responds to the decision of the Constitutional Court Pl. The ÚS 26/16 of 12 December 2017 and projectes the findings which, pending the approval of this Act, brought its practical applications. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] The main proposed changes in the Sales Recording Act are that determining the date of the start, the so-called third and fourth stages will be already together, meaning the seventh month after the amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u3	I'll cut you off and ask for some peace in the room. I feel that the noise level is rising unpleasantly and irresistibly, so I'd like to ask everyone to calm down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u4	Furthermore, we propose extending exemptions from sales log to cases where registration would prevent the smooth and economical performance of business or where the tax administrator has the possibility to obtain relevant data in another way. This concerns telecommunications services, gambling sales, commercial air transport, and we also introduce them for the blind, which has already been modified and taken over from the abolished government regulation. At the same time, there is a special registration regime, a so-called offline regime, or it is expanding, because it is already known by the Sales Recording Act, in such a way that so-called paper receipts are used that the taxpayers receive free of charge from the tax administrator. Respectively, a system is being used, which today, on request, has to be made by an entrepreneur who does not have to register according to electronic sales records today. That means, if a lady goes to a hairdresser who doesn't have to register today because she falls into the so-called third wave that was postponed by the Constitutional Court's find, then on request, the hairdresser must issue you a receipt. So we're taking advantage of what has to be done today, and the receipt for the next time, these entrepreneurs in the third and fourth wave, if they fall under that special off-line regime, and I'm going to say what the terms are, they're going to issue mandatory. The taxpayers will therefore not need either a cash register or an electronic connection, and there are mainly lower demands on persons less technically able to complain about small entrepreneurs. [[16.40 hours]] In addition, a little more information that these receipts will be issued free of charge at any local office of the Financial Administration or any financial office. I would like to emphasise, before I go to those conditions for obtaining this new off-line regime, that it is only an option. The entrepreneur, even if he meets the conditions, does not have to ask and can therefore record according to the sales log. And now those conditions that entrepreneurs can, natural persons, ask for this off-line mode. A natural person or a health service provider must be VAT unpaid, must have a maximum of two employees and the amount of income from registered sales, please - that means so-called cash payments or in other ways under the law deemed cash payments - does not exceed 200 thousand in 12 calendar months. I repeat, that's not annual income. These are cash payments, which is what actually cashes in cash when I say it to the public. The amendment to the Sales Registration Act is accompanied by an amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, which introduces in the case of services and extends in the case of goods the second reduced value added rate of 10 per cent for selected goods and services, at the same time as the start of the sales registration phase. The reason for this is clear: mitigating the higher claims placed on taxpayers in connection with the introduction of sales records for the third and fourth stages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u5	I, too, thank you, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Pavel Juříček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not gonna repeat what the secretary said. I'm just gonna go back to the short genesis. You know that we have rejected one subject in the past, a part that has not passed through the Chamber of Deputies here, but now this press 205 is responding to the Constitutional Court's finding and let's say to the practice that has proved to be. Genesis was such that it was provisionally negotiated across the different clubs that the Minister would submit a government proposal by the end of June, which we now have to discuss at first reading. I must thank the Minister that it was not by the end of June, but it was presented to the House on 13 June, so it is clear that the Ministry of Finance operates on the basis of agreements and works perfectly in this direction. I'm not gonna complicate this whole thing. I'm just saying, the announced material was provisionally rejected in the past period. In that debate, the Minister informed us about the concept of the proposal. The concept of the proposal is respected. According to the reactions of the debaters, I hope he has a chance of acceptance. I personally believe that the main objective of responding to the Constitutional Court's finding and how to solve problems in practice is clearly addressed by this amendment. However, I must say that we can discuss what has been said here, which means, for example, paper records, whether the sum of CZK 200,000 is the relevant limit for the special scheme, whether it is right for the cash payment. I hereby suggest that I am prepared to discuss with the Minister and with other clubs what the amount will be, say, a compromise, so that the administrative burden on smaller entrepreneurs, who have cash payments, is relatively as low as possible. I consider that the online regime is indeed good for achieving the desired effect for Financial Administration and ultimately for taxpayers. In any case, it is a step in the right direction and a step that we have discussed here across the Chamber of Deputies. I would definitely ask all of you to approve this at first reading and, if necessary, at second reading, to look for a compromise between us, which I indicated, in what way we could continue to do so. That's all on my side. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u7	Thank you for your attention, too. I am opening a general debate in which I do not register any applications. This is Mr. Ferjenčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u8	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, as we have announced in our electoral programme, we do not support the expansion of the EET by the third and fourth waves, because while the wave of the first and second at least is mainly about businesses with a high attendance rate, this is typically a transaction between craftsmen. The only effect of this law will be that the honest ones will be overwhelmed by an additional bureaucratic duty, virtually. It'll complicate their cash payments. Part of them will solve it by switching purely to online invoices, and part of them will get some equipment that costs them, something will cost them operationally, but in no way will help them in their business. The dishonest ones will not be affected at all because they simply agree with the customer that they will do so in quotes without paper, they will not report the sales and thus avoid the obligation. So the enforcement of the third and fourth wave is absolutely minimal. We see no reason to introduce her. That is why I propose rejecting this law at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u9	I'm registering your proposal. I have now heard from President Kalousek in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u10	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík said what I wanted to start with, namely that both the Minister and the rapporteur put forward this proposal, as if his main motive was to give some of the tradesmen, the smallest, a little relief to the online regime. We know that this is not the case that the main motive of this government proposal is to cope with the Constitutional Court's finding and thus to launch a third and fourth wave of the EET regime, which, given the finding, would not be otherwise executable. I think that if any discussion really has a major meaning, it is a discussion about whether the EET project in the first and second waves has fulfilled the prerequisites, achieved the goals it set itself, and whether it makes sense to continue or to cancel it. If I take the genesis from the beginning, I will take the famous conference of the then Minister of Finance Babiš with the Minister of Finance of Croatia - and now forgive me for not being able to remember his name, yes, of course, he was a friend of Ivica Todorič, such a Czech Babiš, who is now sitting, the Todorič, but what's the name of the former Minister of Finance, I don't know. So the main motto of the conference was that it may not even be a better choice of VAT, but a levelling-up of the business environment. Let us answer the question of whether the EET project has really levelled the business environment. I dare say he's wronged him. I listened with interest to one of the main mothers of this project, former Deputy Minister of Finance Ing. Hornochová, with whom we discussed this project passionately during the last parliamentary term, who clearly said that either absolutely without exceptions for everyone equally or cancel. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense, especially for the objective of settling the business environment. [[16.50 hours]] We know this absolutely without exceptions that in practice it is almost unapplicable. Cancel is the second option we're applying to. Coincidentally, we submitted a bill to the Chamber of Deputies yesterday, which is completely abolishing this project. It is therefore disturbing - I will probably have to repeat this once we defend this proposal in the Chamber of Deputies - it is disturbing it because I dare say that it did not straighten the business environment, that it had seriously distorted it. That, of course, not only did he seriously distort him in different conditions, but that this costly repressive instrument, of course, is otherwise tolerated by the great and otherwise small businessmen in the countryside. In a number of cases, the last straw was why in all the regions of our country, those people who wanted to feed themselves until the last moment, said they didn't need this anymore, and closed down their establishments. We lost much of our business activity in the countryside, and we also lost the availability of some rural services, because those establishments were simply closed thanks to electronic sales records. The scissors between the conditions that the big guys bear and the small guys bear, and the quantification of the benefits that the Treasury feeds us, how much extra VAT was collected thanks to the electronic sales log -- well, please, nicely, who doesn't believe to run there. The money doesn't have bows, and with the precision that the Treasury is propagandising, it just can't be defined. Certainly not in the summary of all other measures that were made for better VAT collection, which were still being done by the governments of Petr Nečas. Since the first wave of measures against VAT evasion was launched in 2014, it certainly brought some benefits, something probably also brought control reports. And what this brings to the electronic record of sales is seriously incalculable, however much the Minister will not agree with me and will say the exact figures of how much it has brought us. I don't trust them. While the number of restaurants and shops they had to close for electronic sales records, they're hard to prove and credible. And what this measure will do in small rural crafts will, in my opinion, be even more dramatic and harmful than it has caused inns and shops. I join Mr Ferjenčík's motion for rejection, not because I would not like to discuss how to make it easier for those who have to operate today, but because I do not wish for a third and fourth wave, and I am calling on the proposal that we tabled yesterday in the Chamber of Deputies, a proposal to abolish the entire project of electronic sales records. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u11	Thank you, too. Now, I have some written applications here, so please, Mr. Skopeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u12	Good afternoon. We also join the motion to reject this law at first reading. I think the law is exactly in style, or it was submitted to the wolf to eat and the goat remained whole. It is merely an attempt to respond to the criticisms of the Constitutional Court, which prevented the emergence of a third and fourth wave of electronic sales records, but of course there remain reservations about this system. I also think that the EET doesn't level the business environment in any way, but it's crooked. It needs to be realized that for a small businessman, for a small businessman it is much more expensive to get a treasury than for a large businessman. It's stalking businessmen. I think it's a presumption of guilt where every businessman has to prove to the state that he's not a thief. For these and many other reasons, we also join in this and propose to reject it at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u13	Thank you, and I will now ask Mrs Kovářová to prepare Vice-President Okamura. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u14	Thank you for the floor. Let me, too, at the Mayors and Independents Club, give some insight into the bill's proposal. You may recall that we submitted a rather simple amendment to the EET Act, which said that the obligation to have EET would not involve those who are not VAT payers, that is, with a turnover of more than 1 million. Crowns. It seems that the government has acknowledged that the EET, in the form in which it presented it at the outset, is strict for small businessmen who often operate on the border of earning. These are people who, out of a good community plan, not a vision of high income, help maintain social life in small communities. It could be said that for them, this law is a sort of mockery that does not exempt them from EET's obligation, and does not even make their activities easier for them. In short, it is a good bureaucratic burden when we read about the off-line regime, how paper receipts will be issued. And the question is: won't this scheme be more difficult for the tax administrator? How much will this off-line mode cost? In the explanatory memorandum, we have also read that the tax discounts proposed by the amendment will have an impact on the state budget of 3.2 billion. Crowns. [[She's turning to the Minister.]] Isn't that right? Tax reductions. Yes. I'm answering the Minister's question, I mean the VAT reduction. So I ask - if this impact is 3.2 billion. The crown, what yield do you expect? Because we wanted to cut VAT on the fare, where the impact was 1 billion. CZK, when the money would remain for municipalities and regions to improve transport service, and it seemed too much to you. So only if it's possible to figure out how the blackout would be offset by the selection. In short, and good to say - this whole amendment, as it is conceived, wouldn't it have been easier to accept our bill amendment, which says that they little businessmen are excluded from EET duty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u15	Thank you, too. Vice-President Okamura with priority rights, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u16	Allow me to convey the position of our SPD movement. Our SPD movement didn't vote for the EET. We are in favour of supporting small businessmen and at the same time we want taxes to be paid, and from the outset we are proposing a German model. This means that businessmen have a flat-rate tax. I'm not talking about flat-rate tax, I'm saying flat-rate tax, that's different. That means the industry has a certain tax and that's what they pay. I talked to Minister Schillerová about it this year, of course. She said yes, that's how it is in Germany. I know that's how it is, they have refreshments, etc. In short, what does that mean? It has three important effects. The state has its own, that means the state has its own taxes. Taxes have to be paid, that's what we've been saying from the start. So the state has its taxes certain. Effect number two - there is no increase in the number of officials and bureaucracy and the cost of government, because, of course, there is nothing to control when I simplify it a lot, because there is a flat-rate tax. That means there is no need to employ excessive numbers of officials. And the third effect is that the businessman doesn't have bureaucracy, he has everything easier because he pays a flat-rate tax, and so there's no need for so much bureaucracy. Of course, this brings a secondary effect that people are motivated to employ themselves. [[17,00 hours]] Today the movement YES, the ČSSD, the government, before it was with KDU-ČSL, today it is with the support of the KSČM, on the contrary it crushes tradesmen, on the contrary it does not make it any easier for them to work. And it is in direct contrast with the proposal I mentioned here yesterday, when Minister Maláčová here, under the ČSSD on behalf of the Babišův Government, proposes an increase in unaddressed social benefits. That means whoever wants to work and pay taxes and employs people is being punished and increasingly bullied. On the contrary, whoever is capable of working and not working on purpose and I would say parasites on welfare and is so-called inadaptable, this government is adding and increasing the unaddressed benefits. This is indeed a system that absolutely rejects the SPD. That is why we also propose, we propose that this proposal be rejected at first reading, and the members of the SPD will vote in favour of rejecting this bill. On the contrary, we want this, and we have it in the political agenda, so since we have already obtained 22 mandates and we do not have the strength to overrule this proposal of the ANO movement, perhaps in cooperation with other parties we will succeed, we want businessmen or entrepreneurs to have one million crowns canceled by EET. This proposal, which we were co-submitters, was already here, was rejected, but it was rejected. And we want to try again to ensure that the EET is abolished, but in addition to the proposals of some other parties that also disagree with the EET, we want the flat-rate tax to be introduced, because we insist that taxes must be paid. It is necessary to treat it so that taxes are paid, but in a different way, in a simpler way and in a way advantageous to all parties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u17	Thank you, too. And now, with the de facto remark of Mr Kalousek. I'll read some apologies first. Mr Pavel Staněk apologizes to us because of a foreign trip between 17 and 19 o'clock and Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes to us from 17 to 8 o'clock for working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u18	Just a brief remark on what Mr Okamura said about flat-rate tax. It is probably for a different discussion and I am very happy to take it, but our tax legislation knows the possibility of flat-rate taxes and it is possible to approach it on a voluntary basis. But it's on a voluntary basis, and it's not much of an interest for a number of reasons that we'd probably be divorcing longer than my limit on a factual remark. However, I would like to point out that if we went to the idea of flat-rate taxes for everyone, which, of course, is possible, it also means that we are saying that there will be a mandatory minimum tax here. Then just a certain part of the people will pay income tax even if they have no income. That's the reverse side of the coin. And I remind you, we've already had a mandatory minimum tax here for Prime Minister Špidla. She wasn't very kind to the public. [[with a smile]] Not even a tax administrator. And it's been canceled again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u19	Thank you for your time and I will invite Mr Ferjenčík to the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u20	Thank you for the floor. I have already mentioned that we do not agree with the third and fourth waves, which is why we propose to reject the law. However, we agree with the intention to at least relieve the smallest, so we have put forward a positive alternative to the government proposal. It is the 222 House press, which is included in this meeting, which we can discuss instead of this government draft, and it contains the same thing that the six parliamentary clubs wanted factually, which wanted to revise the EET before the holidays, and that canceling the EET for VAT payers we think is a better way. We think it's a better way than paper records, because paper records are bureaucratically extremely complex and extremely difficult to control. So either it's gonna mean a bunch of bureaucrats going through the paperwork, or it's not gonna be anybody doing it, and it's gonna be a useless job that's just gonna burden the entrepreneurs. So we, as a positive alternative, have corrected the proposal of six parliamentary clubs so that the government is legally technically satisfied with it. We have presented him as the 222 House Press, which is included in this meeting, so we can discuss this draft. And if the goal is, as Mr. Juříček said, to find the better solutions for the smaller entrepreneurs... But if we discuss our proposal, the 222 press, we will avoid introducing the third and fourth wave that a substantial part of the Chamber of Deputies simply does not want.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u21	Thank you and please take a factual note from Mr Skopeček. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u22	I have to respond to my previous speaker. Of course, it is not about facilitating entrepreneurs in this law. Not only is this paper form of course useless nowadays, dear, and it doesn't really help the tradesmen, but, above all, the tradesmen's border, where they can use this form, it means 200,000 revenue per year, it is such a pitiful small amount that no one can seriously think that there is a large group of entrepreneurs who can do business, have such low incomes, pay the cost of doing so and carry out their business. After all, this is an attempt to avoid the resolution of the Constitutional Court, to comply formally with those comments, so that the third and fourth stages, which, from the beginning of the ANO movement, wanted across the board, centralistically on all, whether it had to do with large or small ones, whether it had meaning, whether there really was the potential for small entrepreneurs to collect more taxes. I don't think there's potential. In that law, however, there is no way that it is about easing entrepreneurs. After all, the limit of 200,000 a year clearly shows that only the government wanted to avoid the resolution of the Constitutional Court in quotation marks, or not to avoid it, to be precise, but to comply with those comments. But on the system, on the idea, on that philosophy, just spying on the smallest ones, that doesn't change anything, because 200,000 a year, no businessman can take it, make a living. That's completely pointless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u23	Thank you. I have three factual points here. Mr. Ferjenčík is the first. Mr. Onderka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u24	Thank you for the floor. I totally agree. The limit of 200,000 cash payments is disproportionately low. There, if you have a normal margin of 30 percent, it's going to be some 6,000 a month, or the amounts in this order of profit. So it's just such a ridiculous amount that it's actually incomprehensible why the state solves it for these entrepreneurs at all. However, we have put forward the proposal to abolish the EET for VAT evasion, so that the government does not make excuses for wanting to relieve the smallest. Of course, we know that it's not the real relief.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u25	Thank you. Mr. Onderka, please. Mr Koten will be ready. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u26	Mr President, colleagues, members of the government, I understand that the EET, as unfortunately set up, I think now in time, will become part of some pre-election argument that will be used by opponents and subsequently by supporters. That's all I want to say for social democracy. We will vote for the release of this law so that it can be discussed in the Committee on Budgets subsequently at second reading. But I am saying in advance, and here I identify with some of my fellow opponents of this law that the two hundred thousandth border is really very small. And I don't believe the Ministry would just like to comply with the Constitutional Court. I know Madam Secretary is a very smart lady, and she's certainly left some space. And here I am saying that social democracy will certainly address this very boundary in the form of an amendment so that it is a really effective reduction of the burden for the smallest entrepreneurs, for the smallest entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u27	Thank you for keeping time. Please, Mr Koten, with a factual point, Mr Skopeček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the EET is concerned, the debate has already been held here in the last parliamentary term, whether to introduce or not. I think that in this plenary it should be possible to hear how many new officials have had to be admitted to this system. If I was caught in the media, such as the List or iDNES, it was speculated that around 6,500 new officials would be needed in connection with the EET. Nobody here said what the EET costs are. All of us here declare before the election that it is necessary to encourage small entrepreneurs not to shut down establishments. I'm getting a little bit of hypocrisy here because on the one hand, we can throw away, like, five or seven billion for operating an EET, and on the other hand, we're actually taking money from those who make it very hard. These are businessmen, such as barbers, who can rent one, two or three spaces between which they pilgrimage. I can't imagine well enough how this is costing these people, who are basically unable to buy a new car, their business. It's kind of a plug to make us realize how we're loading small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u29	I, too, thank you for keeping time. Please, Mr Skopeček, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u30	Thank you. I would like to respond through you, Mr President, to Mr Onderka. I think we have elections every year. It is a failure of the Czech political system that we vote for various bodies every year. Dramatically, in my opinion, it destroys the work of the House. If we were to use this argument, we can't discuss anything all year long, because we still have elections ahead of us. That's the first point. Second point. This is not our ambition to discuss this law. We'd rather the third and fourth waves didn't start at all if businessmen didn't have such a senseless obligation. The government coming forward with this right now before the municipal elections is your choice, but we would no doubt oppose this regulation, as we did in the previous parliamentary term on any occasion when this proposal was being discussed, because we wanted to protect especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And another thing that caught my eye at your show. I really appreciate it, and now I really think that you mention it yourself, you state that the two hundred thousandth border is really very low, that it is clear that it will not affect a large number of entrepreneurs. But you say that as a government MP. And I feel that there is something wrong with a law coming here that at first reading calls into question by a government MP that there is something wrong written there and that it may be negotiated during second and third reading by some compromise. You know, someone doesn't run for the budget committee, someone doesn't run for the House vote, and the law can be passed in this very bad form. I think that the government should pass laws that it believes are good for the Czech Republic, not laws that are sometimes adapted to make sense at second to third readings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u31	Thank you for keeping time. Mr. Hrnčíř, please. Mr Onderka will be ready again. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of the third and fourth wave of electronic sales records into the state budget will bring virtually nothing. It'll only increase the thrill of craftsmen, tradesmen. And it's going to turn out the same way, and we've already got experience here, like in the country, closing down businesses. Today, representatives of the government movement ANO in the regions are dealing with it by giving subsidies to mobile mobile stores to just go somewhere, to small villages, so that the grandmothers or seniors can buy something there at all. Similarly, it can happen with craftsmen. We'll be subsidizing craftsmen in no time, so they can come halfway across the country to fix someone's dripping tap. Our SPD movement will definitely support the rejection of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u33	Thank you, too. Mr. Onderka, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, just a brief response through Mr President to Mr Skopeček. I think we can also agree on what you said, especially that the government proposals that will be put forward within this coalition should at least have the agreement of coalition members and their representatives. But this proposal we are talking about was prepared before the coalition. This is why things like this happen when certain moments are still in some way fine-tuned, certain things that are in this law. Of course, you can be assured that if I perform in this way, it is not because I would not deal with the Minister or the representatives of the ANO movement as a social democrat and that we would deal with this here through a microphone or subsequently in the Committee on Budgets. The negotiations are, of course, in the course of the negotiations and I would say that today we are approaching 99 per cent of the agreement that we will then promote, both sides or, if you like, the party and the movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u35	Thank you, too. And by doing so, we have exhausted the factual remarks, so we will return to the applications for the debate. Mr Munzar is the first to sign up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, this day could indeed be called a black day for the Czech business environment. [[Jolly in the ranks of members of the YES. The President is begging for peace.]] It is you who are laughing through the President or, if you wish, we can call it the day of throwing sticks under the feet of businessmen. The introduction of an inquisitional practice under the name of EET is a symbol of the state's distrust of tradesmen. EET is a symbol of online tracking businessman, his supplier-customer relationships. As my colleague Skopeček said, it's stalking. In order to implement the EET, the dog's head of class enemy was first deployed to businessmen and entrepreneurs. There has been an artificial division of the public into employees and entrepreneurs. It turns out that society can be easily divided, but it's hard to connect. And that's the biggest scar on the face of the company I blame you for. Each activity has its advantages and disadvantages. I was here this morning saying that the value of a businessman is that, for example, he has to look for his own work and no one will pay for his time looking for this job. And today, the parties to the government coalition have shown in the morning that you don't appreciate this time of these entrepreneurs either. But a functional state in which people are supposed to feel good isn't supposed to prevent people from being crooks. And what exactly is an EET? It's a control that a businessman and a businessman have to provide for the state and that he has to pay for the state. That's what we've been blaming you for all this time. There's a difference between a big company generating profits and a small businessman who's just trying to make a simple living so he doesn't have to be dependent on the state, on our social system, on the employment office. Perhaps we can all calculate how much such a small businessman must earn to cover the costs of implementing the EET. I have already said here, when previous proposals were discussed to abolish or restrict the EET, that I know several municipalities, one in Kladensko, Knoviz, where the introduction of the EET led to the conclusion of trade, and so the services for local residents have decreased. Unfortunately, they are now inventing themselves, not in this law, but they are inventing how to promote the development of rural business through various subsidies, subsidies and so on. All you have to do is let the businessman work in peace. [[17.20 hours]] Of course, the introduction of the EET likes the big supermarkets. And that's what they're hunting for. And they say it's a business settlement. And I agree with my previous speakers that, on the contrary, it is an uncompromising, a division of a competitive environment. Because these big supermarkets, thanks to the EET, they end up competing in these small businesses. But the true value of such a small businessman is that he can take care of himself. He doesn't want anything from the state, he offers his services, he doesn't burden our social system, he provides the necessary service to his surroundings. That's the kind of people you should be leading with the government. I said it here this morning. Because today everything seems to be okay: economic growth is low unemployment. But one day, the economic growth will end. When the stagnation begins, God forbid the economic recession, we'll be happy for every petty businessman who can take care of himself. Instead, we burden him with other administrative duties. Instead, continuous distrust and control of entrepreneurs is continued. The obsession of the Ministry of Finance to suffocate small entrepreneurs with other and other responsibilities is infinite. The result is debatable. Where are the tens of billions of crowns that were supposed to bring these obligations? I would like to quote the Supreme Audit Office's report on the State Final Account 2017, which concerns the control report and the EET. And I hope the secretary will listen to me. Thank you. According to the Ministry of Finance and the General Financial Directorate - this is the quote - VAT collection was also influenced by the introduction of control reports and the gradual introduction of electronic sales records. The draft State Final Account states that the audit report in 2017 caused an increase in VAT collection of 4,2 billion. CZK, although according to the State Budget 2017 in a nutshell, the selection was expected to be higher by 8.2 billion. On the contrary, the convergence programme of the Czech Republic 2017 presents the contribution of the control report in 2017 only 2 billion. Crowns. Similar differences in the amount of the increase in the selection are also found in electronic sales records. The estimated effects of the measures introduced differed significantly in the various documents of the Ministry of Finance. The credibility of these data is questionable because different values are published in the materials for which the method of calculation is not explained and are not supported by an analysis of specific data. That is not what I say as an opposition MP, that is the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the management of our state. So this is how we decide on serious obligations based on debatable - and that, in my opinion, is a very diplomatic and mild word - debatable arguments and debatable numbers. The joy of small tradesmen from delaying the third and fourth waves after the Constitutional Court's resolution did not really last long. As a result, this proposal doesn't really change anything, no one's almost outnumbered, but it's been postponed for a few months. The benefit, as I said here, is debatable. And so that it doesn't hurt so much, with the same law, it reduces VAT on some services. These are the ones that are affected by the expansion of the EET. I see it more as a marketing move invented somewhere in some PR headquarters than a system solution. The system solution and the stability that the secretary of finance called for this morning. I am definitely in favour of low taxes, but I do not like this approach. I will also comment on the alleged reduction in bureaucracy so that the least of them are supposed to have it as simple as possible. Perhaps, here at second reading, there will be a prelude to whoever has put a higher limit on the side of the government coalition. Today the limit is 200 grand. The crown, which is based on some 16,600 and some change for the month. Business associations have asked for an increase in this border so far unsuccessfully, but in the finals it is not a reduction in bureaucracy. That's not simplifying the lives of the smallest. One bureaucracy, the electronic one, you replace it with another bureaucracy, the paper one. Instead of EET, small businessmen will be forced to pick up uniform receipts forms at the financial offices, every quarter of a year they will take boxes with these receipts back to the financial office, so it is another bullying measure for our entrepreneurs. And what will be the yield of such a measure? And how much will that cost us? How much will it cost taxpayers to record the new officials who control all of this, etc.? So it means that the small businessmen from the third and fourth waves will be the smallest with the cash sales up to 200 thousand. or to another limit, exemption from electronic office, but only in exchange for paper office. It turns out that you really don't appreciate entrepreneurs and you'll think of anything to complicate their lives. a motion to dismiss has been made. If this proposal fails, I'm filing a motion to re-establish this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u37	Thank you. I would like to make a note that first the vote is to be put back to the recast, then the rejection. And before I invite another speaker, I have a note. Mr Mikuláš Peksa apologizes to us for working reasons until the end of the day. We are sorry Mr Marek Výborný due to working duties in the region from 17.30 to the end of the day. Mr Jan Bartošek apologizes to us for working reasons from 17.30 to the end of the day. Now there are two factual points. Mr. Jiří Bláha, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u38	Serious colleagues, colleagues, I'm gonna lighten this up a little bit. I'd like you to see the paradox. A short time ago, there was a guy who's against the EET, and he's been a civil servant all his life. And I'm my whole life, I'm a businessman, and yet I defend EET. Because it balances the business environment. That's the paradox. Look, a clerk or a civil servant, so I don't touch my colleagues, is against the EET. And the businessman is for EET. A little weird, but I'll explain right away. Statistics came out last year on chefs' salaries. We all know cooks don't go under 20 grand. pure, which represents some 30 grand. That's rude. But the usual price for chefs is 25,000. pure and more, which is about 40 thousand. That's rude. Just so you know. The Statistical Office has registered 15,000. That's rude. That says it all. And it's not true that entrepreneurs demand nothing. They don't share health and transport with us? They don't share with us the education and other conveniences everyone uses? And that's how we need to deliver the money to the tax system. The moment we have a bunch of dishonest people around us, and it's still increasing because of insolvencys, executions, because the demand for people to work black, there's no other way to go this way. Of course, we can go through the flat-rate system, but we need to change the whole thing systemically. Let's sit down systemically, let's talk this over and change it. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u39	I would like to make a factual remark to Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u40	Thank you, Mr President, I will be very short. When we were discussing past points, I did not think that the populism and dogmatism of Mr Munzar could be an even greater caliber through you. But he showed that he really could. It's pure nonsense. EET isn't about wanting to impose on someone that he's dishonest and that he's doing something wrong. But I'm taking my money, so I want a receipt to prove that I'm a very expensive man, and now they're gonna take my parliamentary salary, and I want something in my hand for that. I can't imagine you coming to the municipal office to pay for the trash cans, put $3,000 in there like that, and put the paper in your drawer. I can't do this! [[17.30 hours]] And if it's just that a one-off investment is going to be made by this document, virtually. This operation, when I gave my expensive money to some businessman or businessman, gets into some central records, that's a secondary matter. And it's really about settling the business environment. You're saying that we wouldn't actually want any receipts, that we should actually give money to meet. I mean, we're all confronted every day with a hairdresser asking you when a carpenter asks you, a carpenter - you want it with paper or no paper? Please, let's not lie to each other. The first wave of EET went through. I don't think those who have stepped in through the initial callbacks have any problems with that. So let's not get dramatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u41	Thank you, too. I will now ask Mr Adamec for a debate. Mr Munzar wants to respond with a factual point first? Then I'll ask Mr. Munzar. I'm sorry, Mr. Adamč.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u42	That wasn't electronically?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u43	It was electronically, but then it was erased.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u44	I'll let you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u45	I don't have it here. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u46	Thank you. I'm using my right to use a factual remark here from the point of view. I will not respond to Mr Volný's personal inventions through Mr President. I just want to answer Mr Bláh also through Mr President. I've never been here to argue so-called. ad hominem, by the name of the lecturer. I think we should have some business. I just want to remind you that you should look more at my resume because you will find that for the last four years before I was elected to the Chamber of Deputies, I was a self-employed person and I was 2.5 years at the central government office, so I was also a self-employed person for a longer time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u47	Thank you. Now, Mr. Adamec. Please. And good evening to all of you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u48	So I, too, good evening, Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members. I really wish we didn't say who the big baker is, who the postman is and who the teacher is. I think we have the same rights here, the same responsibilities, so let's not distinguish it, because then we're going to forbid ourselves to say anything about disciplines where someone thinks he's a master, and at the same time they think he's a total dilettante. I will speak honestly at the beginning. We didn't want a wave of electronic sales records. We've been fighting this system from the beginning, we don't think of it as settling the business environment as it was. And gentlemen are a classic example of what I'll be talking about in a minute. It's just different. Of course, if you want a receipt, it's been so far, everyone gave you a receipt when you asked for it. And sometimes you need that receipt. And if I were to ask you, all of you here, a question, if a carpenter makes you a locker and asks you if you want it without paper, I wonder what you're gonna say to him. And really let everyone touch their own conscience, I'm not going to examine it here. And this is wrong of course. This state is losing a lot of money. But let's see why we reject it, why we feel negative about it, why we do not consider it to be an equalization of the business environment. I don't think anybody can even be serious about who thought about it a little bit. And I would say that the law that went through the force here, we were even interrupted at third reading when we had the debate, someone called it obstruction, but we were the opposition, we are still, and it is our right to express ourselves here. And of course I was sorry that I didn't get to talk, you cut the debate short for ten minutes, twice ten minutes, of course it was right, I'm not questioning it here, but I have to say a few things that didn't fall. When the EET was introduced, who was a populist and who was the biggest marketer, we know that in this company, who behaves populistly for every case. And I'm not gonna discuss this here anymore. But that's when I saw paid ads, how much they'd make on it, how many ambulances, how many kindergartens, children's playgrounds, etc. Well, I have to ask where they are. When I look at the planned return from the EET, did he move in two tens of billions in order? Yeah, I think that's what happened. If you look at the revenue of the state budget and other taxes, that's not the main problem with tax collection. It's not. He's somewhere else. I have to say, we live in a time of economic boom. If the situation were the same when we introduced the first wave, the second wave, we might be able to assess it in some way, although I'm afraid, as Mr Kalousek said here, the money doesn't have bows in this area, so it would be very hard to get out of it, but of course we can play with numbers as I can, of course I believe in numbers that I'm going to build, and I don't have to trust the others. And I don't really believe that it's earned much either. And I'll tell you why. And I'm saying that paying taxes is normal for us to be clear. According to studies in the grey economy, the Czech Republic is about a percentage point behind the Federal Republic of Germany, which we consider to be an advanced country, perhaps our economic model, on which we all agree. And economists dealing with macroeconomics are capacities, saying that the grey economy in these numbers, between 15 and 16 percent, cannot be reduced by repression. Electronic record of sales repression in a way is. It can only be reduced by reducing taxes and simplifying the tax system. When you talk about simplifying the tax system, which is very complicated in the Czech Republic, do you know who will first respond? Tax advisors that aren't short-lived to make money off of it. And where do those tax advisors get the money? The fact that they optimize money for big businessmen, and that's money that would otherwise end up in the Treasury. Let's face it! So what are we straightening out here? I don't see any straightening up here. By the way, this law, which was pushed through force in the Chamber of Deputies, was not meant as a law to improve the revenue of the state budget. Not from the beginning. And the clues are pretty clear. That was a law that built big against small, where I mean big businessmen - in the end there was an example of it being so right - against small. I know, big hotels, which, of course, are in a completely different Garniture, wished for an EET. He built employees against businessmen. And I don't think we should promote and enforce the laws that create a dispute in society that divides society. I don't think so. We should approve here and propose laws that will bring society closer together. And that obviously didn't work out here. I say again, I don't expect us to reject it or go back to the first, second wave, to reject it. I think the toy, as I call it, which was brought by the Minister of Finance at the time, is such an icon that we will continue to modify this law, where by the way, personally it bothers me that it is online or inline to say it exactly, connection. That's what bothers me most about him. That the data just runs in the air, wired, 24/7. And I don't think the state should treat its inhabitants that way. The distrust expressed by this law against its citizens, towards tradesmen and entrepreneurs is enormous here. Again, we've been saying this from the beginning. We were against it, there's a whole series of reasons. Of course, I'm not taking anybody's chances that today he's saying it's a good thing. Many entrepreneurs had registers before, they were also held by the innkeepers, because they had different shifts and checked not to be stolen from employees at the premises. But it was on their will, it was okay. I don't remember the innkeeper not giving me a receipt when I didn't want it, or at the store selling goods without a receipt, I don't think so. And I haven't seen a pub guy come to you - do you want it with or without a receipt? That beer's gonna cost you a receipt of 10 or 30 today, no receipt of 28. It's not like that. This is in other fields of business, it is in the field of construction. I was pointing out that construction is the biggest mess, that it was supposed to be the first wave, but it's hard to control because they're in the field, they're not in the plant. That's how it was done for the shop and the pub. [[17.40 hours]] By the way, if you don't think those pubs and groceries have gone missing from the villages, and she's a lot of factors, let's not just blame it on this law, it's just smoking and other stuff, so I can tell you from experience that the villages around our town have a big problem, so maybe they have a store to have restaurants there. And do you know who runs them today? They're not our businessmen. They're not. They are Čech today because they have Czech citizenship, but they are Čech of Vietnamese nationality. Again, we'll never support this, we'll fight to cancel it, it's a topic for the next election. And don't take it from us as populism. We've been saying it from the beginning, and we're gonna insist on it to the end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u49	Thank you for your performance. With a factual remark, Mr Bláha. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the drop recording that the previous speaker has given me. Who made it possible to cross into the gray zone? Who has taxed 21 percent of the field, which is the most complex - hospitality and services? At the firm, we only had to charge 21 percent VAT because we put dessert on a plate. So who helped it, the gray economy, and who created those conditions for us entrepreneurs when it was 21 percent of the inn service, the accommodation, everything? There are seven in Germany! So if we're talking about Germany, there's 7 percent of the hospitality in Germany. So let us learn and act accordingly and we will not have to implement the EET, although I think it is a modern tool that will help us in the future to not even have to fill out the tax form, because on the basis of the registration of those taxes, the State will do for us. And that's what we're going to do, so we don't have to do tax returns at all. Let's sit down systemically, evaluate the whole thing, redo the whole thing and take advantage of the fact that we're all going to be connected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u51	Thank you for keeping time and with Mr. Adamec in fact. Mr. Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for that, too. Of course, we can say here that there could have been other VAT on these activities, I agree with that, on the other hand, let's not run away from the facts. So I was talking about a grey economy that is almost the same as in the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Inconvenient remarks.]] It's according to the statistics! Read it! And I have to say that it has nothing to do with VAT, and it has nothing to do with the cash registers, because many EU states are far worse off, which cash registers have long been introduced and used, so those cash registers are no escape from the grey zone. And by the way, you know, it's judging the time past in another economic time, whether there was a boom, or whether there was a recession, it's also very complicated. I also would not have to agree with a number of things from the time that happened here, but unfortunately it is, the continuity of the parties is here and they have always done so in good faith that it will help the Czech state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u53	Thank you. With another de facto Mr Munzar and Mr Plzák will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u54	Surprisingly, I will now agree with Mr Bláha through Mr President with one thing. It'd be really nice if the state provided the tax return and didn't make it their own business. That would be real help. But we're seeing something completely different. We're witnessing that we're drifting away from this. On the contrary, we're adding larger and larger responsibilities to entrepreneurs here, and the old ones don't cancel. What was cancelled with the introduction of a control report? What duty? What was cancelled with the introduction of the EET? What duty? So far, we're burdening businessmen with more and more administration. And today, we had the opportunity to simplify the life of entrepreneurs in the morning so that they would not have to keep tax records and could apply spending flats, and unfortunately, this grand House refused to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u55	Thank you. Mr Plzák and his actual two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I'll respond to a little discussion. I understand that each party or movement has its own flagship and, of course, the Civil Democratic Party has it. And that flagship, it's a struggle for the abolition of the EET, and in this holy struggle, the interests of the small businessmen and businessmen are being cast aside. But are you really sure that's what all the businessmen and businessmen really want? Because I know those, and they're even members of the ODS who approve. So maybe you should have an intra-party discussion, if that's what everyone really wants, and maybe you'll be surprised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u57	Thank you. Mr Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u58	Thank you for the floor. In contrast to you, Mr Vice-President, we know what an intra-party discussion is. I'm not quite sure about that with you. But we're not as proud as you are to say that everyone is against us and everyone agrees with us. You're absolutely right that it doesn't apply to everyone, and not everyone agrees with us, but we're sure that there are most of them. I'm talking about the little ones. I'm not talking about the big ones who had the sales that we were talking to here with our colleague, the rapporteur, who had the sales of 400 or 600 million. You know what bothers me about EET? One thing. Let everyone take it. I don't care about the state connection. Let's cut it online. If the businessman wants him to check on his employees, let him have the system. Yes, it's modern. I don't know who said that. It's modern, but it's stalking. I can spy on a modern one. You'd have had provocators and whistleblowers there before, and now you've got online connections. They have to evolve every second. Let's ask the secretary how many checks they've done on the EET, with what result, how much human power it cost, the controls. I think they're having fun with the check-ups for ten crowns, 50 crowns and fines. What's the effect? When I'm properly logged in, I took a manual that the former finance minister was handing out to all of us, Myths and the reality of EET. And we're two years later and we can laugh together at what he said and compare it to reality! I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u59	Thank you. With Mr Bláha in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u60	So, spying. Dear colleagues and colleagues, spying here has introduced large business chains, or business houses, which have been asking businessmen who have been in their rentals for 15 years to record their sales accurately. For 15 years, businessmen have to hand over business houses... [[Objection.]] It's not voluntary! If you don't accept the terms, you're not in that department store. The same is true of work on Saturdays and Sundays, with work on holidays, the same is true of delivery of rolls at sub-cost prices. You don't accept the contract, you don't deliver, you're not in the house, you're out of luck. You can't say your terms because that's the way it is! And for 15 years, department stores have been spying on us. That you didn't stand up for those businessmen for 15 years! And when VAT was 21 per cent in hospitality services and 5 per cent in meat deliveries, what do you think it was under VAT? What was beneficial for entrepreneurs? They set up fictitious meats within the hotels to have a place to eat fictitious meat. So this is how it really works where the gray economy is in full bloom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u61	Thank you. Another entry into the factual notes is President Stanjura and Mr Válek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u62	We really, really don't understand each other. Mr Bláha is actually saying today: I must sign a disadvantageous contract. How are you gonna make me not have to sign it? If it's true what you're saying is that you have to sell at sub-cost prices, then tell me, how come you're showing profit? I don't understand. If I have some products that have cargo, and I sell them at sub-cost prices, and then I'm in profit. That doesn't make economic sense. It must be good for you, too. You wouldn't be doing business there, you or your colleagues. So I'm gonna do business somewhere where I'm lost? And complain about the contract? And he wanted the state to deal with it? Do not mix the obligations of private entities to the State and the contractual relations of two private entities. Or maybe you're a really central planner, Mr. Deputy Vice-President. And I don't know who or what, but the Central Committee will approve the typized leases and control everything. There's no logic to that. So if I'm selling at sub-cost prices for the long term, how's the business gonna turn out, can you tell me, economically? What income taxes do they pay when the cost is sub-costed? Then he can't be in profit. There's no income tax, but it's been there for 15 years. He's been selling for 15 years at sub-cost prices, and yet the company still exists. Seems weird to me. I'm not ruling that out. It's like there's an unconfessed income. That's impossible. What the company lives on - 15 years at sub-cost prices it sells! What's he paying his employees for, buying the stuff if he gets less than he needs to make? Don't get confused. This isn't possible. And if someone signs a disadvantageous contract, they can terminate it - thank you. [[Mr. Ambassador, time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u63	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Válek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u64	I too, through Mr President, allow myself, ladies and gentlemen, to respond to the observation of the parties. I don't really think that if I admit, let's just say, that the chain of trade is stalking someone, that the right solution is spying on the chain of trade, and finally everyone is spying on everyone. Then we would have gotten to 1984, as Orwell wrote about him, then only Big Brother would have been missing to watch over the stalking. I would like us to return to a rational debate and whether the EET and another wave of introduction are beneficial or not for our citizens, for our entrepreneurs, for all of us. I'm not prejudiced, I'm trying to study the facts for myself here. I admit that I am not an expert on this issue and I am trying to graduate honestly. I don't think snooping arguments belong here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u65	Thank you for keeping time. Mr. Mr. Bláha and his two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u66	So this is the last time I'm gonna do it. Really, I promise. I'd be happy to explain to you all how it really is. Come to my office, I'm there for you, and I'll be happy to explain how it works on the bakery, pastry and other services market. As far as sub-cost prices are concerned, it's very simple. I don't deliver to the market. I haven't delivered in 15 years. And that's because they wanted me to deliver at sub-cost prices. The companies they deliver, they're down. United Bakeries, minus ten years. Minus, they subsidize it from foreign money. Other bakers have to respond to this, and they really often have to employ black or partially black. And so it is! Because they can't survive in that market any other way. And if you care, you'll find out where the truth is. I'm happy to explain it to you, and that's why I'm here, and that's why I'm taking steps to be free to do business without being forced into sub-cost prices. That's what it is, and it just wants to know more about it. I'm not saying I'm mad at you for not knowing. I'm happy to explain everything. Come, I'm ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u67	Thank you. A real point, Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u68	You'd only have to visit us in 25 offices. I think it's much more effective if you tell us on the microphone. It's in the log, so even whoever's not here can track it down and learn. It's really better, that's why we have the opportunity to debate. Of course there are tools to deal with this. But you refuse. Let's cut social contributions. The other day, I was reviewing the economic program of the YES movement before the elections. We will reduce social contributions to employers between 2 and 5 percent depending on the economic situation. What proposal did the monochrome government of the YES movement make in this area? None. What proposal did she make - I know you have a hard time with those socialists, but you chose them yourself - in this area? None. If you had written 0 to 5 on the basis of the economic situation and, at the same time, you would have claimed that we were in a bad economic situation in these months, I would have believed it. It is one thing to fight black jobs, reduce the cost of extra labor. And on the 2 percent-- we suggested 2, you two to 5, you were bolder, some even more, but on the 2 percent, we would definitely find a match and a majority. The Prime Minister likes to count - seventy-eight and twenty-five, well, seventy-eight and twenty-five, two percentage points of social security can be approved very quickly, in the nineties the socialists and the communists wouldn't let us, we'll cut the deadline, so we'll make it this year. But that would have to be the will, not just the election program. Soon it will be a tax package - or let's think of it as a bonmot, in a moment, but the next point is a tax package. So I was looking for this amazing discount for the employees you have on your election program. I didn't find her there again. We'll probably propose it as a changeling, see if you support your own election promises, or say it's right-wing populism of the irresponsible opposition. [[Time, Mr. Chairman.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u69	I do not have any factual points at the moment, so Mr Marek Benda is duly entered into the debate, Mr Martin Kupka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u70	Dear Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, so that those who have met me on the balcony do not benefit, I say that my performance will be somewhat longer. So whoever wants to go get some coffee, he can go get some coffee, and maybe you can make dinner if you don't sneak it around too much. The first comment on Mr Bláh, who basically always tells us that he will explain everything to us in his office, but unfortunately here in the O.R., he usually doesn't explain much. So the idea that taxes will be worth our while is beautiful, but we haven't really moved on to this in the last five years that the ANO movement has ruled, not one millimeter. On the contrary, the state wants more and more from us, and it certainly does not help us to pay taxes. In the last parliamentary term, I was one of those victims of the fierce vote of the then government coalition, as we called it, until the criminal conspiracy of the President of the Chamber of Deputies with the President of the ANO Chamber of Deputies, which limited the debate and when I was not allowed to speak at all in the third reading of the e-booking of sales, I could not apply my proposals. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court later stated that the level of intervention in our individual parliamentary rights was not such as to abolish the law for the unconstitution of the procedure, which I regretted. Yet he abolished the third and fourth wave in particular to contradict the constitutional order of this country and because the authority given to the government was too broad. [[Help: Postponed.]] No, please don't postpone, cancel. I would beg the Minister, the Constitutional Court cannot do anything - when he already tells me, which he should not, but I take it it it was friendly, so I just reply friendlyly: the Constitutional Court cannot postpone anything. That is not the authority the Constitutional Court would have. The Constitutional Court can cancel something, and then someone can enforce it again, or enforce it in another variant, or enforce something else, but whoever is responsible for it is this House again. Not the Constitutional Court. The third and fourth wave was abolished in order to conflict with the Constitution, particularly on the issue of authority given to the Government, but also on other issues. And now, before I speak on my own, let me briefly quote three four pages, which will be no longer, briefly quote from the minority position of the five judges of the Constitutional Court, who have cloned that the law on electronic registration as a whole should be abolished and should not have been left in force even the first and second waves. [[18.00 hours]] Prologue, please. J Lynn, . Jay: Yes, Prime Minister. Shortcut quote: Professor Rosenblum wanted to know why nuclear forces are scaring the Rus away from attacking us. "Because they know," I answered firmly, "that if they attack us, I will press the button." "Will you press it?" He seemed surprised. "Well...," I hesitated, "you don't think so?" "And you think so?" "As a last resort, yes. Definitely." I've been thinking about it again. "At least that's what I think." "What's the last chance?" "When the Rus invade Western Europe." At least that seemed obvious to me. Professor Rosenblum watched me critically. "Don't worry about it. Why should the Rus try to occupy Europe? They can't even control Afghanistan. No, if he tries anything on us, it'll be a salami tactic." The professor developed a number of potential scenarios. First he invented the storms in West Berlin, the buildings are on fire, and the firemen from East Berlin will cross the border to help. He asked me to press a button in a situation like this. Of course not. Rosenblum nodded and asked if I would squeeze it if East German police came with the firemen. I shook my head again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u71	Ambassador, I'm just gonna ask you if what you're talking about here is a subject we're discussing today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u72	It is a statement of the Constitutional Court, virtually. the minority opinion of the Constitutional Court in the EET case. If you want to criticize what the constitutional judges have written in their opinion on the EET, please complain in Brno and not to me. Thank you for your attention. We'll be back. Rosenblum nodded and asked if I would squeeze it if East German police came with the firemen. I shook my head again. I'm not going to start a nuclear war because of such a slight border breach. "Let's assume the East Němec will send some soldiers there. And then others to help cope with the riots, they say. Then the East German troops are replaced by Russian troops. Can you push the button?" I shook my head again. "The next step will be that Russian troops will not withdraw. Can you push the button?" I shook my head again. Professor Rosenblum took the floor again. "Okay, scenario number two. The Russian army, in maneuvers 'random', deliberately crosses German borders. Is the nuclear button now the last option?" "No," I figured. "Okay, scenario three. The Rus occupied Germany, Belgium, Holland and France. Their tanks have reached the Channel and are preparing for the invasion. Is the nuclear button now the last option?" "No," I said. 'Cause... because we're going to war just to defend ourselves. And what kind of defense is it to commit suicide?" "So when is the nuclear button the last option? Picadilly? Gas station in Watford? Reform Club?" "When you build it like this, nuclear weapons don't make sense." This was the introduction, prologue, to the decision, respectively. the minority opinion of the Constitutional Court. And now I would quote what was said in that very opinion. I think you should all listen carefully because I think this is a substantial summary of what bothers the EET. We apply a different position in relation to the statement by which the application is rejected in the remainder and the corresponding part of the justification for the decision of the Constitutional Court 26/16 pursuant to the provisions of Section 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, since we consider that the proposal should have been complied with and Act No. 112/2016 on the record of sales should be abolished as unconstitutional. In particular, the following facts lead us to this view. It's not easy being a businessman. It takes a bit of personal courage and a lot of patience, because business-related duties are huge quantities across the entire legal order: in the area of occupational safety, social security, personalistics, hygiene and, of course, taxes. The State, which, according to the case law of the Constitutional Court, is the result of a social contract, should therefore always weigh well in the introduction of any new obligation which makes it difficult for entrepreneurs to carry out their activities. In this introduction, the legislator should very carefully assess whether this additional obligation is indeed necessary and whether it is not unduly aggravating the business environment. These measures should not be considered in isolation, but in the context of restrictions already in place. Lapidally speaking, the state should ask itself whether it is not the proverbial last drop, after which the imaginary cup overflows. The Constitutional Court's task in the subsequent review is to consider whether it is appropriate to "press the button" already. We believe that fiscal discipline is not always the greatest value - a legitimate objective. Sometimes the interest in it should be somewhat retreating to preserve a strong layer of active, creative, self-confident and courageous people who risk their existence in business instead of being employed. And these people, especially the smaller ones among them, the people with turnover - which is not the same as profit - e.g. in units of millions of crowns a year, the state should make the business administration as easy as possible, even at the cost of a smaller tax return, which is marginal here anyway. The economy will be robust and will survive hard times better just if there is sufficient diversity and self-sufficient, to help from a common independent business layer will remain in the outskirts - pubs and other establishments in small municipalities, small and independent entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, students, etc. For many of these very people, however, EET is the proverbial last drop that drives them out of business or drives them into a grey economy, which will pave the way for their big competitors towards a corporate big business and grant state. This creates a small hyperrich elite and then only worse or better paid employees. We can thus come into conflict with the material nature of democracy. It is possible only in a society made up of a substantial layer of really free, independent people. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 2 The Charter means the right to a free choice of everyone in how he will provide his means of life. The right to decide whether a person will depend on someone - dependent activity, employment - or take care of himself, with all the resulting risks - business. The right to conduct business is derived from the right to own and dispose of property freely. However, it also has to do with the ban on forced labour. Experience from the previous totalitarian regime testifies to this. The Communist regime not only allowed business but punished them directly. The combination of acts of speculation, illicit enterprise and abstinence forced everyone to be employed. She forced him to depend on almost one employer, namely the state. Let us mention a very small group of private farmers and a slightly larger group of cooperative workers. [[18.10 hours]] A society in which the vast majority of citizens depend on one or several employers for their livelihood is not a free society. Therefore, the right to engage in one of the fundamental rights creating conditions for a society of free citizens. Respect for freedom of any kind, not just business, must always come first. However, the declared goal of the EET does not correspond to that respect. The primary purpose of work and business is the creation of material values and the provision of services to other members of the company. Reality... [[There is a discussion of the Prime Minister with several Members at the rapporteur's table.]] I'm a little distracted here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u73	I'd like to ask you if you could...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u74	I know he's the chairman of my club, it's not a complaint against anyone in the government coalition, but I'm having a hard time talking. The fact that work and business can be taxed is secondary to the successful functioning of the company. While a functioning company can be imagined funding its needs from taxing other facts, such as immovable property, natural wealth, deposit on accounts, bank transactions or consumption in general, cannot exist without work and business. [[The discussion at the rapporteur's desk is ongoing.]] Therefore, prior to the introduction of the electronic record-keeping of sales, the State should very honestly and thoroughly examine whether all the less invasive and harassing options available to it to control the correct and fair collection of taxes had been exhausted. However, none of this has happened in the present case, although the introduction of an EET clearly constitutes an additional administrative and financial burden on the business activities of entrepreneurs. Stick to a mere statement -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u75	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. I would like to ask if there could be peace at the rapporteur's table, because the Member is disturbed by this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u76	The Prime Minister seems to believe that the Constitutional Court's decision on electronic records of sales is not relevant. So I think it's pointless, and I dare to continue with my speech. [[Prime Minister Babiš is referring to their discussion as well.]] And I think that if all the government officials listened to him and really thought about it, they must conclude that really electronic sales records are an unnecessary burden on this country, which, apart from prestigious reasons, has no further meaning for us. However, none of this has happened in the present case, although the introduction of electronic sales records undoubtedly constitutes an additional administrative and financial burden on the business activities of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u77	Prime Minister, I would really like to ask you if you could be considerate at the rapporteur's desk about someone giving a speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u78	Sticking to the mere fact that the introduction of the EET is very likely to lead to an increase in tax collection - a measure that will stand up to the test of reasonableness - and therefore will also stand up from a constitutionally legal point of view, it is very dangerous and exploitable. Excuse me, I'm gonna interrupt my speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u79	So Chairman Stanjura with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u80	Since the management meeting is unable to make order, I'm asking for a 47-minute recess at our club meeting. It's just that arrogance has crossed some kind of bearable limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-010-029.u81	I hereby conclude today's meeting day. I'm interrupting the meeting until 9:00 tomorrow.
