ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u1	14. The proposal by Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue a constitutional law amending Constitutional Law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended Constitutional Laws 40/ - First Reading This proposal was dealt with on Thursday, 1 March of this year, when we interrupted it in the general debate. I would remind you that the Government's position was delivered as House Press 40/1. Please - yes, Mr Radek Rozvoral and Mr Jan Farský for first reading have already taken their seats. We will continue with the interrupted general debate, but before that I will read one apology, two apologies. First, Mr Pavel Staněk, please accept my apology, yes, from 6 to 7. 3. for family reasons. And then I have here Mr Stanislav Grospič's apology, and it is on 6 March from 16.15 to the end of the meeting because of a business meeting outside the House. So now I have entered into the general debate, yes, as the first Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u2	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Government, colleagues, let me begin by saying that there has already been a debate on this subject, there have been many arguments against the draft of this constitutional law. Of course, I've heard a few performances from a translator's representative who was like a copycat, but of course we've listened to them. I'd say it's time to realize what's going on right now. Because the temptation of a direct election is still there, and let's not look, I guess, for experience, let's not look for how it works elsewhere. It is an idea, it is a personal feeling that our democracy will be better, that it will start to work better and that this change will give us a better leadership of our cities, communities and government. I have to say, we need to realize what's on our agenda. It's a change in the constitutional law. President Okamura here has been trying for several years to make a direct choice of mayors, senators. He's not the only one. I've been there. I was here last term, but I have to say, it was at least draft laws back then. We talked about problems specifically and it always crashed on the fact that there weren't enough convinced representatives that the proposed laws were okay and that this was the right way to go. But we're going to do another reading here today, and I think we will, because I think it's part of certain political agreements, and we're going to push the constitutional law. This is a big problem, because constitutional law, change is very simple. It just says we're going to vote directly for the mayors and the chieftains and the mayors, so I don't forget them, and that's it. We're issuing a blank check for the Constitution. By the way, when I started in politics, in high politics, so I took it from behind, I started in the Senate, and then the experienced politicians from the Senate told me, and I think that's a deep truth that the Constitution should be touched on quite exceptionally, and it must be done in such a way that we really do not cause any problem that might be caused by the application of this amendment of the Constitution. What will you do in the second, third reading with this bill proposal? I'll tell you. Nothing. Nothing! Because it's very simple, it's one or two sentences. And I don't think we have anything to discuss. Yes, we can say, there is a group of Members, Members who want a direct choice of mayors, mayors and captains. Then there is a large group of experienced municipal politicians who do not want this for obvious reasons. And on the other hand, what's it gonna be about if we let it go to the next reading? It'll be about the declaration. We somehow smuggle it into the Constitution, through a legal legislative process, with a three-fifth vote, of course, and that's a little different coffee. I believe that in the end common sense will prevail and that we will not simply make a tearing calendar out of our Constitution of the Czech Republic. I would understand if there was a specific proposal to change the system. I'd understand. I probably wouldn't agree with that either, but I can, it's a matter of every Member, a Member, how he's going to stand up to it. But we should be talking about committees in particular. And that's not how the problem is set. We're not really going to talk about anything here, because if it's not ready, political proclamation isn't enough. And I must say that when I heard some performances here, I came to the conclusion that, apart from colleagues who move and know it well, many of our Members and Members know absolutely nothing about it. And I might have taken the liberty of having a window like this, I'm in a proper debate, it won't be as quick as President Okamura has said, to tell you how the system currently works. You know, on the one hand, you're right about people thinking about the municipalities today, I'm not convinced about it in the government, but in the municipalities, they think they're actually voting for mayor and mayor in the electoral system. Because that's how the choice is set. It looks like it, the media feeds it. Because that leader must be the mayor of the winning party after all. It's not like that. Because if you know how to vote and if you vote as citizens, you know that unlike the parliamentary elections, the candidate for the city is completely different. She's one candidate based on the number of subjects, movements, political parties or those who get proper signatures. The tarp's different sizes. In large cities there is no exception format A0, i.e. across the entire kitchen table where they fear that if they did it both ways, that people wouldn't look at the other side, which turns out it was also a problem in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies. And now people vote, and they call them-- you can circle the candidates that you like, who you believe, and when you circle them, and you can give as many circles as possible as the number of members of a particular council, so that's the right way to choose people that you think can represent you in a community or a city. But it's not like that. That's the problem, I'll say, if the council has 33 members, so if you vote for the person you want for the mayor, and you vote for the rest somewhere else, that means that the person gets one vote from you, and if you vote for the whole group, the entire candidate, it'll have 33. And here's the problem. It's not like the mayor or the mayor or the captain is elected that way. People think so, it's different. I think that the creator of this electoral law led the idea of getting there the most colorful spectrum of representatives in the community. Because it's also true that the last candidate for a winning party or a group or a movement has more votes than the first candidate for a party that gets elected second, but he's not elected and he's elected first on the other side. That's also a great injustice to this. In fact, people think they're voting, and they're voting for something completely different. Here I think it would really be worth thinking about how to improve this system, how to do it so that people can really choose the order, like in the House or something, but that's for discussion. In fact, the majority elements can be inserted into these proposals, because, ultimately, President Zeman spoke about it, that his idea was that the first of the winning party or movement would automatically be the mayor, the mayor, the captain. But it's not that simple, because if this guy says he doesn't want to do it, then what happens? Is he going to have to resign from the candidate's office, or is he just gonna move on? The interpretation would probably be very complicated, and it would be a little more complicated than those who present them might realize. [[16.00 hours]] I would like to say that the electoral system is not entirely perfect, but on the other hand, I say that it simply allows small parties, small associations, independent candidates, to enter the municipal, municipal or regional council. That was the intention of the creator of this electoral law. When someone here said that someone would win and someone else would form a winning coalition, I would mention here the words of the former President, Mr. Václav Havel, who said quite frankly: the winner of the election is not the one who wins the vote, but the winner of the election is the one who is able to make the winning candidate. Now what does it look like in practice? The worst model is when the party that wins, but in those first places, there are candidates like local doctors, teachers, so they don't want to do it, so they're just pulling the candidate from the bottom of the list of people who could possibly be the mayor. I've seen it in an unnamed town. And how do you think that turned out? It lasted half the term, then it collapsed, because I don't think it's legitimized by voters, it's just a mockery to voters, and that's not how it's supposed to be done. The second case is that I'm shutting out the election winners. Well, that's a more complicated case, because when an election winner is unable to communicate with the rest of the political parties in the area, in the city, in the village, there's an embryo of awkwardness right at the beginning, and it can also end in a way that simply the winner is in opposition. That's one of the drawbacks, but it's the premise that the election winner is the one who is able to put together a winning coalition. The best thing, of course, is when the mayor, the mayor, the chieftain, is the one who's the first on the winning side and the election wins. I know what I'm talking about, I've been watching this all along. I've been mayor of the county city for 20 years, and I have to say that I've seen different models, but I've always won the election myself, I've always been the first, and we've always tried to build the coalition so that the first one on the tape has the right to build the mayor. It is the best solution, the cleanest solution, but sometimes it can also happen that whoever is the first on the tape does not want to do it, and then of course there is either an agreement or an agreement. These are the disadvantages of the electoral system, but let's talk about it. I think this area is huge. I think there are different models abroad, but this system, despite its disadvantages, has only one advantage. Some of you are talking about the rescindability of politicians. Well, clearly everyone who's mayor is always the mayor from the council to the council. Everyone who's on the council is a councilman from the council to the council. The representative shall be at least once every three months. So if it doesn't work, there's an agreement, so the political situation just changes, it can appeal, the coalition changes. There's room. I find it incredible that someone here is defending that you will vote for the mayor in a direct election, and then you will throw him at the mercy of a council that will be completely different and uncommunicative. The experience of neighbors is. I know the cases in Poland when the chair of the council, who directs the council and the council as an executive body, does not agree with the mayor, and then when they go somewhere to an event, such as a gathering event in a friendly town or community, everyone goes in a different car because they hate each other. Can you imagine what such a situation will look like in the village? There will be a new election in four years. That could be too late. I think the mayor from the direct election is hard to recant, I'd say almost irrevocable, and the system has this disadvantage that we're drawing attention to. I repeat again, I am not opposed to discussing what the electoral system is supposed to look like. I'd be defending myself from a direct choice. We actually have several direct elections in the Czech Republic. The last, direct election of the President, it turns out that it's probably not the best in the system, and if you want to call someone off, in this case, it's very difficult, if he starts acting unstandard, he's gonna start doing what he needs from the Constitution. Then here we have a direct choice of two senators when we vote for senators directly. By the way, it's a very difficult choice, I've had it twice in a row, I know what I'm talking about, I won once, I lost once. And as many times as he doesn't win the best, I'll tell you this quite openly, because in the second round, he joins the weak against the strong or political opponents against the one who won the first round. By the way, I also speak from my own experience, because I always won the first round. It doesn't have to be that way in the second. So it's just to figure out how it works today. I'll add to that how many times you don't have anyone in those villages who wants to work for the mayor today. Let me remind you that sometimes here in Parliament we will come up with something that will simply reach the municipalities in such a way that then the interest in communal policy is smaller and smaller. And that's not just a property confession, it's so fashionable to say that it's awful that the mayor reveals himself naked in front of the public, an uncontrollable public. There's a lot of other things. I think that if you look at the history of the functioning of our representatives after 1991, you will find that problems were needed even in the case of the application of European law, the popular hit of the opposition, I would say the unconstructive opposition, the defensive opposition. I could name a lot of things, but I don't want to keep you here. I repeat, we have a really big problem here. We're opening the Constitution without knowing what we're gonna put in it. In addition, there will be only the fact that in the Czech Republic the mayor, the mayor, the chieftain, is elected directly. But as we do, there's not a word about it. I really don't know what we want to discuss at readings when we don't have a draft of the general law, because without that, I think it's an empty declaration. Do you know what it's gonna do? Political blackmail. I see that as a bad thing, because it's going to keep moving - I've heard it before - we're going to send it to the committee, we're going to stop it, then we're going to talk about the law that's going to implement it, there's plenty of time. But that's a bad attitude. I think that without the implementing law, we cannot enter the Constitution in this way, make it a tearing calendar, because it will create great uncertainty in our 6,500 municipalities, or even how many we have today. I think any uncertainty in this area is a public hazard. I understand. Here's the declaration - we want a direct choice of mayors, the chieftain, the mayor. I understand the concept, but on the other hand, when I listened to it here, it seemed to me that the political declaration was above all else. Let's just do whatever it takes. When I thought about it, I found the statement of the ancient Roman politician Cat Sr., who always said at the end of the meeting of the Honorable Senate of the Roman Empire: After all, I consider that Carthage must be destroyed. I'd say after what I've heard here, we're also assuming that the system must be disrupted. And I would add: just for political proclamations. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not enough. That's not enough. To be a serious debate, we really need to see the implementing law. I remember the first time this debate was here when I was here in the last parliamentary term, and I have to say that the problem is - of course, I understand transparency, openness, the ideas of some part of the political spectrum, but most of the plaintiff's representatives simply showed a clear little knowledge of the environment of municipal policy. Here at the plenary I saw, the mayors, the deputy ministers, the people who have been in communal politics for a long time, said why we should not gamble and should not propose a change to the Constitution in this way. [[16.10 hours]] As for the idea that it will arouse greater citizens' attention, such an election, I will answer it simply. Well, for the first time, yes, then the municipal or municipal company will pinch, because, of course, according to the most part, it might be good, for the smaller part, it's going to be wrong, and I'm not counting on the council that's going to vote for it. And what happens? The interest in the election will gradually get back to the way it was. By the way, municipal elections are still currently, I would say, in the greatest interest of the citizens, there is the greatest voter turnout and I must say that the confidence of citizens in their municipal policy is significantly higher than trust in us, Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic, even significantly greater than trust in the senators of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, who are elected directly unlike us and two-way, very difficult choices. So please, why are we interfering in this way, this unqualified, this aggressive, something that works? And it works relatively well. Of course, we can find excesses, we can perceive some negative personal experiences here, but you don't think that's the case in direct choices? Well, what happens in direct choice? Based on the ideas I've heard here, it's very simple. We choose the mayor, the chieftain, the mayor, that's what we wanted, that's good. And what happens next? Are we gonna give him all the powers, or aren't we gonna give him the powers? In the Czech Republic? Please, you can't be serious! That means we're going to vote for him, and it doesn't matter how the council elects. There's a lot of alternatives there. I repeat again, none of the mayors in the Czech Republic wants greater powers. I'll tell you why. And propos, do you have any idea what authority the current mayor of the village, mayor, or even the governor has in the end? I'll tell you, there's two of them. There are two powers - one is to wear urban insignia. Whoever's doing this knows what it is. Well, I've got a ugly chain, I've got to say, which pricks me in the throat, and it bothers me, but no one else can touch it, let alone put it on his neck. And the second of the mayor's powers is to represent the community on the outside. I admit I don't know what that is. If I translate it into Czech, it's very complicated, it's just not easy. Really try translating that sentence into a practical life. But what's important about these worries today? They must be able to negotiate, promote the opinions they have put into the coalition agreement with coalition partners. He must be able to communicate, to convince. And she's definitely better convinced in the group that started out and she said she'd do some coalition program that she's gonna follow than when the mayor says, "I'm elected directly, I'm not interested in the council and some of your programs because I've been elected, I'm responsible to the voters, I want to do this, that and that and that and that, and you're gonna listen to me. No way! They won't. It's just not from abroad. So consider whether you really want to put it into the next reading, the constitutional law, where there's one sentence. It really feels very brave. And if it's the price of any political calculus, I beg you, who you are in communal politics, don't let us accept that. Don't do that. If the aim is to destabilize the communal sphere despite the problems that it has, like every branch of human activity, has certain problems to solve, and the rapporteur said so at the beginning, let us focus on the electoral system. It's even easier, by the way, where both chambers actually vote over half the majority, it's not the three fifths as in the Constitution. It's easier. But I think we can agree on that. If you want to strengthen some majority elements in the first stage, why not? Let's talk about it, I'm in. But if you want to do it in this form that you just say yes, now it's handy, maybe someone will give us something for it, if we raise our hand and put it in the Constitution, one or two sentences, and then we'll see, then I want to warn you that this is the way to hell. Proclamation isn't enough, it's not enough. It's not enough, it's a way to hell, and I'm warning you about it. Please don't do this. And to say that we have to hurry, that it hasn't been for years - I don't think we have to rush. You know, I said it here on Friday when we were discussing the 41st, which means speeding up the construction of transport infrastructure. I mean, what's the hurry to make it, we're going home at 2:00 on Friday? That's the wrong way to go. That is why we are in Parliament so that we can discuss this here so that we can discuss it from all sides. And remember what we missed out on when we were here trying to figure it out, on committees, on plenary and so on, and a lot of problems got into that system anyway. The old Brit always said: when a parliament sits, one is not sure about property or life. And if you think it's different today, look at some votes. Really! So I think it's exactly the same, except we're living in modern times, no one's gonna cut your head for it. But we'll see what happens in the future. So I repeat again - please, let's not do this like this. I understand that the declarations are here. By the way, I wish for a bigger discussion, perhaps a more specific, professional subject, but we have nothing to discuss. If we are to discuss whether we want a direct choice or an indirect choice, then, unfortunately, the debate will end here. So just fantasies, someone says I want straight, I say no, I want indirect. And you know what the greatest paradox is? Most of us who say they don't want a direct choice, so they would have succeeded in that direct choice completely simply. Quite simply, because most of the mayors sitting here today are experienced local politicians who don't do it during their first term of office, and the acquaintance between people is. And I must tell you that, even this way, the elections in this system with all the problems I have been talking about are the most challenging elections, gentlemen, through the President, these are the most challenging elections I know, because these people know you, and even in those big cities, they are close to you. It's not like you're voting for a candidate in parliament. Yes, primary election. I apologize to pirates for accusing them of being partisan secretariats. We also do it with the primary elections, but don't ask me to explain to you what the primary elections might look like. Again, it's just some comparison of different areas within those regions, those electoral areas, the weak against the strong, and it's not true that the best candidate really gets to be number one. It's really not true, the experience tells us that. Then all of a sudden everyone wonders when people wake up, they start ringing that there's someone completely different from what they imagined as party leaders. And I mean in those regions, now I don't mean the highest peaks, they don't really care. So let's consider everything I'm saying here. I'm really asking you to take this from a practical point of view. The system works, it has more than 60 percent confidence. Please don't say we did some statistics, and only those who answered said they wanted it. That's not relevant research, that's it. For me, the survey is that most residents trust their local politicians, they trust those councils significantly more than the Parliament of the Czech Republic in both chambers. It's a little worse on the edge, because the edge is farther away, but that's always the case. So here I'm going to repeat the motion to reject at first reading that I'm definitely not opposed to discussing the majority elements in the municipal election system, but a blank check, please - I don't know if you would sign a blank check in the bank as collateral. Some may, but I don't! So let's not issue a blank check here, let's not think of it as a means of simply being part of some political business, let's not interfere with the system that works best in the Czech Republic from those political systems. So thank you for listening to me, gentlemen over there probably not, but that's okay, I can't expect everyone to want to hear everything. Again, I suggest we reject it at first reading because I see no reason for second and third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, I'm aware. Now we have three actual applications, three applications for factual notes. So Vice-President Pikal comes first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u4	Thank you. I was listening, so I'll take the liberty of reacting. For one thing, I'd like to turn against the fact that there's nothing to do with the other reading, because that's just one sentence. It's because it's just one sentence, so there's something to do, and there's something to edit in the constitutional proposal. For example, there is a lack of division of competence, for example, it is possible to propose the proportion of the election of the mayor, as opposed to the mayor, for example, whether or not there will be the advice that is now mentioned, but it is not clear where it comes from. It was also mentioned in my previous speaker's speech that it was difficult to call off the President. I agree. I think that we should be concerned with making it easier for the President to withdraw than for this position to be abolished in a constitutional way, as is currently in principle, and a direct election to the Senate has been mentioned. I would like to point out there that the two-wayness that is currently being used, unlike the President, is not enshrined in the Constitution, so we can, of course, deal with it there that we would introduce something that will achieve the result better, sooner and more legitimately, and yet with some respect for minorities or the portability of the voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u5	Thank you and another point of fact, Mr Dominik Feri. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, once more. Me and many of my colleagues here last week called on the SPD to present at least some small shot of how they imagine that the general law should look. The regulation doesn't just concern the constitutional law, the constitutional standard. There is a need for a clear answer to some basic parameters. Then I came here, I looked at the board, and I expected that there would be individual members of the SPD registered there, they would have some prepared speeches and answers to us, as they would have imagined the mayor's direct choice. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Fellow Members of the SPD through Mr President, do not be ashamed, do not be afraid. Come and tell us some basic things. We don't want an paragrafo text. Tell us what municipalities the mayor should vote directly in, how he should vote, how he should appeal. These basic things need to be clarified. Otherwise, of course, my motion to dismiss is as I said last time. But please answer at least these elementary questions. This is to be dealt with at first. Just a general description. Thank you very much, and I trust you will grant my request. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u7	Thank you and another point of fact, Mr Adamec? Yes. There you go. And Mrs Vildumetzová will be prepared for the factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u8	Thank you. Mr President, allow me to respond by your means to Vice-President Pikal. You know, it regulates the Constitution by negotiation on committees, that's quite the courage, that's what I'm saying quite frankly, and that's exactly what shouldn't happen. Unless the government really initiates the amendment of the Constitution, the legislative department of the government, constitutional lawyers won't talk about it, so I consider it a huge gamble. And if you really think this is gonna work out for you on the committee, then really from your own experience... I'm not gonna tell you you're one. But from experience, I'll tell you that you're deeply wrong. As far as the Senate is concerned, that's what I enjoy. I was in the Senate between 2002 and 2008, and I heard this kind of talk back then: let's cancel the Senate, or let's turn it into something else, whether there may be captains there as a choir of regional politicians, or change the electoral system to another. There's one problem. If you want to change the electoral laws, the consent must be the majority of the two chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. And you really think the senators will take these steps? I don't think so, I know the senators well. And I was there when there was still capacity, in the Senate, and the constitutional capacity that was just saying some things that would be good if you could hear, you guys, what do you think you're gonna put this Constitution on your knees? It's just never gonna be this. Let's not lie in our pockets. Like an annulment of the Senate. There is a Czech proverb for that: the carp never leaves its pond. But to be fair, when I was driving around the world, in countries where they had one chamber, they wanted the other, and where they had two, the senators pissed them off because they kept coming back, so they wanted one. That's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. And Mrs Vildumetzová, please make a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to take the liberty of responding to our previous speaker, Mr Mayor Trutnov, Mr Ivan Adamec. I would like to respond to both the direct choice of mayors and the direct choice of captains that, in the direct election of mayors, the vote is across the political spectrum, which means that if there are fifteen representatives, it is so-called cross-breeding, whereas when elected to the regional council, there you must choose only one political party and not cross-breed, but it is ringing. And you can also put four candidates first. At the same time, I would like to say, through Mr President to Mr Adamec, that I am very surprised when he says here that he is always running for municipal elections, that he will win and that he is already mayor of several terms. So I would like to remind him of the regional elections that last took place in 2016, where he also ran for the Civil Democratic Party in Králové Hradec Region and won the Yes elections with Mrs Klára Dostálová, where he won 25 percent of the votes there. The second received 13 percent of the votes. But in the Hradec Králové Region, yes, he doesn't have a captain. And it was Mr. Adamec, as a regional representative, who supported the Governor from another political party, who received 13 percent. If we're going to talk about voter participation here, I think we need to do everything we can to make sure that voter participation is as high as possible. If today's election vote is 50 percent, it's not enough. The citizens want to know, and they want to be sure that if they go to the election, that whoever they vote, they'll eventually be at the town hall or the county. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u11	Yes, thank you. And I have another factual point here, but I didn't want to disturb it, but it's another and another one, so I have to read the apologies to keep me up to date. So Mr Benešík apologizes for his health reasons for today's day, further apologizes to us Minister Stropnický from 16.00 hours for working reasons, further apologies to Mrs Jana Pastuchová from 17.30 am to the end of the day for health reasons and a final apology, Mrs Adámková from 18.00 am to the end of the meeting for a working reason. And now I have one point of fact, and he's Mr. Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I'm delighted by the former ODS member to acknowledge what I said in the opening speech. I said it could happen. And just because the person who wins the election is already making it clear that everyone else is who they are. And as for... yes, I'm sorry. It's like that on the edge, it's true. That system isn't like the city. I'm sorry. And I would also like to say, as I quoted old Roman politics here, somewhere called Cato and sometimes also Caton, to make it very clear that I don't say something here that you're going to drag me on. And it really is, this is what you're saying, however... However, I repeat again, so let us elect this man as mayor, and the council will agree as in the Hradec Králové Region. And what's the mayor gonna do there? Nothing at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And here's another point of fact. Mr. Mr. Freedom. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think what my colleague Adamec says is profoundly true. I know something about city control. I spoke with the Mayor of Bratislava a while ago, who is directly elected. He himself sees his direct choice as the worst thing that could ever happen to him, because his dealings with the rest of the council are a daily problem. It's very difficult to agree on anything. And yet the rules are a little different because, for example, the mayor holds all the representative money in his hands and essentially decides on it. If we want to change something to a direct choice, we must decide to change our democracy and give the mayor other powers, because without them it will not work, or we must elect the mayor, and the mayor will name his officials who will work for him as Minister of Government. But such a bill is complete nonsense, constitutional nonsense. Without anything else, it's unrealizable. This will simply be a terrible blow to the water, and I do not want to see Prague being driven by a mayor who has been elected majority and has a council behind him that will argue with each other as the current council, and he will be like the crazy person who is doing something completely senseless. I can't. Believe me, I know what I'm talking about. Don't do this without solving the whole constitutional problem. This is a hit in the water, and it'll act like a hit in the water!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I have two factual points here. So, first Mr. Vojtěch Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u16	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to follow up on my fellow Svoboda. It's not just about the worries, it's also about the mayor's vice-mayors and the mayor's deputy. We all know who they are in communal politics, that competence is then shared. One person can't handle it all. And then how will the deputy mayor and deputy mayor be dealt with? We didn't get an answer to that. I would like to join your colleagues here in calling for you to present to us, those of you who want a mayor's model, it's legitimate, I don't agree with you, but it's legitimate, so give us a real model of functioning before we go to gambling and decide on a law like this, which today is just a cat dog, such a fairy tale. The mayor won't be naked or dressed or worn or worn. It's just a cat dog in this case. So please answer our questions about how it would work so we can really have something to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And another point of fact - Mr Birke. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Four little notes. Allow me to respond through you to Mrs Vildumetzová. You know, I know about 30 other times that just changed political structures when the election winner wasn't, and I wouldn't blame myself. I'd rather get away from it, we wouldn't get anywhere. And I don't mean that pejoratively. Just three notes. You know, depending on what I said here on Friday, if it was discussed on Friday, the first thing was that you're actually trying to dismantle something that works very well. I dare say it's amazing when it comes to self-government. Second point. I note that the mayors are in the political craft, and I repeat it again, the most popular in terms of the political crafts they are today. And the third point. All those who have performed here before me and will certainly perform after me, whether it was your colleague Adamec, Mr. Svoboda, Mr. Doctor, and others, or colleague Kupka, are all among the great and important municipal policies, and we would actually very much like to have a direct choice, because we will certainly be elected to the first, as they say, right? I'm probably one of them, too. So let me join the club of the chosen and known, but I think my colleague Vildumetzová is very famous in the Karlovy Vary region - through the President - and paradoxically we do not want it, even though we would probably win. Well, that's just four little notes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u19	Thank you. And now I have applications for a proper debate, so Mr Martin Kupka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u20	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will follow up on the words of my previous speaker. I don't want a direct choice of mayors either. And certainly not because I would not want to allow Czech democracy to develop in a positive direction. On the contrary. I do not want a direct choice of mayors precisely because I do not see any dramatic problem in this area. I'm going to try to add a few specific numbers so that the debate gets even more factual. When we talk about trust in municipal policy, CVVM found that confidence reached 60 percent in the autumn of last year. For comparison, and this is not a good number, confidence in the Member reaches 23 percent. I really believe that the communal sphere works well. It interferes with many planes of human life. A reckless move in this area can really cause serious problems. At the moment when it is only a fundamental provision, the amendment to the Constitution, which says in one sentence that the choice is changing, but does not affect a number of other essential standards, is really threatening serious damage here. We were here recently dealing with GDPR, where there was something similar. There is only a general regulation, but there is no clear implementing regulation, and the damage amounts to millions of crowns. In the case of municipal policy and the whole system of urban and municipal governance, the damage could indeed be much more extensive. I am defending the existing system because I do not find any serious dramatic problems in it. There's a famous lesson that when something works, it's not supposed to change. In addition, I would like to add that, of all the systems of the municipal elections, the least of them give room to avoid public voice. On the contrary, the space here is quite large already because you know that everyone can circle across the candidates, so even this element significantly strengthens the public's voice in the way the local council finally assembles. Another important element, second in line, is that people know people very well, of course, even in larger cities. They can touch them, they know their history, they know their steps, they know their opinions. Finally, what has been said here is another important element - and the SPD should actually applaud this - the rebuttal of politicians, the rebuttal of mayors in this case is the easiest of all other political crafts. It can actually happen once every three months at the latest. Any major hesitation is enough, any other agreement in the council is enough, and the mayor is no longer the mayor. On the other hand, this may contribute somewhere to instability, but elsewhere, to a very simple solution to serious problems. I come to another important circle of factual reservations, and that is the factual flexibility of the system. Specific numbers again. Slovakia, where the mayor is chosen by direct choice, had to repeat the direct election of mayors in 2016 in 45 municipalities and cities. Just because the mayor, for example, got sick or decided not to worry, or other reasons led him to do so. Forty-five such cases, and there are less than 3,000 municipalities and cities in Slovakia. In the Czech Republic we have over 6,000, twice as many. It would mean that the elections were repeated, they could repeat almost hundreds of municipalities and cities. This is quite a serious problem especially at the moment when the elections are already under way, and to think that we will contribute to more significant electoral participation, I dare say, is a chimera. And another important thing that relates to the direct choice of mayors and is perhaps the most important because it affects the nature of the administration of municipalities and cities, and that is that for all decisions the mayor needs representatives in this or the other system. Even in systems where a direct mayor's choice works, he can't make the decision more seriously. He needs to talk to someone, he needs to get his support. And the Czech system of such an environment, where support for the program must be sought from the beginning, exists. It even exists from the very creation of candidates, because there are already individual candidates who have to agree on a program with which they will go to the elections, and this, of course, obliges them to a certain extent and creates greater certainty and more predictability in what they will promote and how they will manage their city or community. I will allow myself to end with this essential remark for me, the most important argument, because there is a real risk that a direct choice can interfere with the environment in which the mayor needs his representatives, in which he has to talk to them, he must seek some agreement and compromise with them. And often the simple solution, which brings a referendum or a direct choice yes or no, is simply not enough for the real and good governance of the community and the city. There is a need to look for a fifth and sixth option that should be better and that could pass through and serve people for the benefit. [[16.40 hours]] Well, I'd like to call again, let's look away from the fact that the three words have appeared - the direct choice of mayors - somewhere on election posters. But until it's worked out, until it's really a bigger discussion with other laws prepared, let's not go into this kind of gambling. It would really not do the Czech Republic any good. It's pointless. And if something's useless, it's best not to do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u21	Thank you, honourable Member. I have a point of fact here, yes, Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u22	Thank you for the floor. Just a very factual thing - more than a hundred additional municipal elections have already taken place in the past parliamentary term, so it is no change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u23	Thank you, honourable Member. And Mr Martin Kupka. Please, you have a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u24	Thank you for reminding me so that I can complete the actual statistics. Yes, you're right. Also in the Czech Republic, in 2016 there were additional elections to the council simply because the council could not succeed there. But I note that in 2016 such elections in the Czech Republic were 34 in the existence of more than 6,000 municipalities and cities. In Slovakia, in the same year, repeated mayoral elections had to take place in 45 cases at half or even less than half the number of municipalities and cities. Well, that's the statistics, isn't it? And if we all want flexible public administration, and I dare say that it appears in all cases, and every judge knows that public administration is to be as flexible as possible, we cannot do the opposite on the other hand of a specific bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask Mr Milan Pour to speak before the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, may I also share my views on the draft law on the amendment of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which will enable the direct choice of mayors and captains. Personally, I believe that the direct choice of mayors is clearly one of the current European trends. We should certainly be inspired by the experience of the surrounding states, where the direct choice of mayors in certain adjustments has been applied for many years. However, in the Czech Republic, this is not a new topic either. The direct election of the mayors in the Czech Republic has been discussed and analysed, as most of you remember, even during the period of Topolánkův's and Nečasův' government. Unfortunately, as is already an unwritten rule in our country, if the government wants to take major conceptual steps, then it takes us much longer to implement the concept than usual in our neighbouring countries. After studying the House press, including the explanatory report, I acquired as mayor, but also as a Member the conviction that the possible realization of the direct election of mayors and captains in the proposed form would mean a disruption in leadership and in the development of municipalities. There is no proposal for parameters of direct selection and division of competences between municipal authorities and regions. This significant conceptual change, such as the direct election of mayors and captains, is, in my opinion, crucial to discuss across the political spectrum, also with representatives of the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities. And certainly foreign representatives from Poland, Slovakia, the federal states of Germany, who already have experience with the direct election of mayors, should join the debate. And we definitely need to define the following parameters, which have already been discussed here last week, but I will sum them up. First, in which large municipalities the mayor will be elected directly. Secondly, the mayor's responsibility and appeal. Thirdly, the mayor's relationship with the other municipal authorities. But, of course, it should not be forgotten about the mayor's vice-mayor's position and the authority of the mayor's position and authority. Furthermore, I would like to comment here on the selection of candidates for mayors and captains in the form of the selection of party secretariats, as he mentioned here last week in his contribution by a colleague for the Pirates. In my opinion, it is necessary to set parameters on how democratic the selection of candidates should be. But there is a need to emphasise for those elections whether candidates should be chosen by citizens or party secretariats. In my opinion, the party management usually knows potential candidates from the cities much better, because they are in contact with them, working with them. They also know how these candidates react in stress and whether they are communicative and able to negotiate. They therefore have a better position to make decisions than citizens who often only know them from random meetings or what they learn from local media or from neighbors. I think it is important and crucial for the development of municipalities to balance the component of representative democracy and the component of direct democracy. From the experience of municipal elections, I know that citizens often choose representatives of professional elites. However, it sometimes happens that it is these people who receive the most preferential votes, but although they excel in their profession, unfortunately, they may not always have sufficient qualifications to perform the mayor's duties. If I mention a situation where elements of representative democracy prevail, then citizens feel that their voices do not really matter. And I'm going to touch a specific situation. For example, at present the mayor may be elected a person who has not even been elected as a representative in the elections. It will, for example, take place when the elected representative is resigned from his place of replacement. There's nothing stopping him from running for mayor. It will grow, and unfortunately it will happen, one can become a person with a low support of voters, who subsequently lose interest in public affairs. The reason for this is the belief that voters do not have the real possibility to influence their community's policy. These cases really, really, I can tell specific cities afterwards, I've known several of my fellow mayors and mayors. At the level of municipal policy in the Czech Republic you will also find a number of representatives who are able to act factually, without unnecessary delays and politics. Unfortunately, however, there are also prosecutors where the opposite negotiations take place. I'm sure now that I look, there are a lot of mayors here, so there are municipalities and cities that would benefit by strengthening the mayor's authority, but on the other hand, we will certainly find a lot of towns and municipalities in the Czech Republic, where unfortunately it would hurt. As far as I am concerned about the direct choice of mayors, I support the direct choice of mayors, unlike some of my previous speakers, because I think it would help to make faster decisions and promote intentions leading to the development of municipalities and cities. I believe that we should introduce a direct choice of mayors in a similar approach to Slovakia, but it is necessary to respond to the pitfalls of the Slovak model of direct choice of mayors and to implement certain measures. Among the disadvantages of this system are weak internal control of the mayor's activities, which even the council cannot control. Its small, basically only political responsibility is also the reverse of the mayor's strong position in Slovakia, which, in view of his strong position and his professional difficulty in performing his duties, does not seem sufficient. There are also a number of problems in cases where the mayor and the municipal council have no intention of cooperating with each other. In Slovakia there is, and unfortunately there are more cases, the state of the so-called. cohabitation, when the mayor is elected separately from the council, and the result is that in some cases he is dealing with a dissenting majority in the council. [[16.50 hours]] It should also be pointed out that the advantage of direct democracy is lost in cases where there remains a lack of interest in the electoral vote. In the absence of a quorum for participation in elections and applying a system of relative majority, it is sufficient in a number of cases to select a small number of votes. It is also necessary to take into account the different basic concept of the organisation of local government in the Czech Republic. In our homeland, a direct election of mayors and captains would mean a number of large-scale legislative adjustments, but they are not ready at the moment. Taking effect of the amendment to the Constitution of the Czech Republic as at 1. 7. 2018 according to the authors of this press without a broad expert discussion and without changes to the legal system I see completely unrealistic. It must also be concluded that at present the Ministry of the Interior has stated that it will start preparing a substantive proposal for a regulation that will be more sophisticated from a legislative point of view and which will subsequently allow the transition to the direct choice of mayors and captains. Before this happens and, if necessary, by a large-scale expert discussion, I think it is appropriate to interrupt the discussion of this press. If this happens after the release of this press into second reading, it is up to you now and today, if the vote is voted on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u27	Thank you, honourable Member. I have a point of fact here, Mr Martin Baxa. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u28	Good afternoon, Mr President, dear colleagues. I would like to express my appreciation for Mr Pour's efforts here in an analysis where he deals with parts that would be considered, which, on the contrary, would not. I submit, and I mentioned here once that I disagree on principle with the direct choice of mayors and generals in the legal system of the Czech Republic, and I have already mentioned the reasons here. But I would like to contrast the speech of my colleague with what was said here in the opening of this law, when the members of the SPD merely repeated the same speech, in which it was basically just mentioned that there are some general reasons for direct democracy and that this does not work in the municipalities and that we should give citizens the opportunity to allow those unelected politicians who give power from the hands of the party secretariats (?), show who they are. Ladies and gentlemen, we really should take into account the fact that what is presented here from the SPD pen does not even meet the basic parameters for us to begin discussing this at all, so that we can have a serious debate, which the colleague has actually started here in good faith, but does not belong here. Let us clearly say that what is now being prepared in this House of Press is unnegotiable, unfulfilled and dangerous to the representative system in the Czech Republic in its consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u29	Good afternoon. Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Vice-President Tomio Okamura is now applying with priority rights, and colleague Bauer is well prepared. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to have a quick reaction here. I'm gonna do a little more of what I said last week. Here in the last parliamentary term, there were two attempts to enforce a direct election of mayors. I know the ODS is against direct choice, you have it in the program, it's okay, you don't promote direct democracy, TOP 09 doesn't either. That's why we don't respond much, because we know you're going to vote against it anyway, because it's in your program, and that's okay. However, I will explain the matter to Mr Pour here again. Just because it was rejected in the last term, but there was another ratio, and by the way, one of the proposals was also starosta, and the government's complaint was, it was a hundred-page implementing law, and they really found one sentence, why not and like this. I consulted Andrej Babiš in the presence of the head of the Government Legislative Council and the head of the Government Legislative Council, when I explained it to him, he basically said yes, this is how every sentence is found, and it doesn't go through for nothing. That's why we voted for the system, and I'm applying for it, and I confessed to it a week ago that we're presenting this constitutional law, it went through both the legislative department of the Chamber of Deputies and the Parliamentary Institute, we both had it checked out, so it's quite legislatively correct, quite legislatively correct, it's possible from the Constitution's point of view to pass it, we have it both organizations, like all our laws, virtually. We had both the unions check it out, so that's okay, and we said we'd like you to let it go to second reading, who would like to discuss this. And at second reading, because it is a constitutional proposal, I stress again, unlike the ordinary laws, there is no time to discuss. There's no pressure. Nothing. There's no pressure. So, in short, if the members of the ANO movement are not satisfied with the implementing law that we would have created together, I will be able to get to that shortly, so it will not pass anyway. So on the contrary, let's work on it, I'm glad the pirát want to work on it, too, and others, I think it's great that whoever wants to work on it, let's work on it. And we've already had a seminar set up here to discuss it with the experts, what and how. We'll make a task force, whoever wants to do it. I know there are people here from YES who care, I know that KSČM, I know that pirát, I know that we and the starosta are here, and let's go with the implementing law that's really, and in every country it's different, I've looked at it, I'm answering those questions here too, it's different in Slovakia, Poland, it's really different in every country. Most countries in Europe have a direct choice of mayors, which I named here last week, but different. So we have actually chosen the path of general political consensus so that we can meet on this and at second reading in peace without any time pressure, I promise it here, without any time pressure let's really, here Mr Kupka is a successful mayor, I know Líbeznice, there are other mayors here, that is, let's sit on it, even those who weren't for it originally, and let's make a compromise to make it comfortable for everyone and to include ourselves among the majority of the countries of Europe that have that direct choice, so that we can divide those powers so that it's comfortable for everyone. So what's the council supposed to have, what's the mayor supposed to have, etc., etc. So I said all this last week, we're not saying anything, let's break something over our knees, so that's why I wanted to ask you to let it go to the committees in peace today. We have enough time there, and let's prepare it so that the implementing law is comfortable. Because in the last parliamentary term, it has been the other way around, and we haven't gotten anywhere, because I really, I admit, the implementing law is so complicated that we need to find a general consensus through the political parties. That's why we chose this path. This is a real journey, in the experience here in the House, it's a consensual journey, and I think it would be quite ideal. So I mean, I hope he answered most of the questions that were here, and what we're gonna agree on each other's parameters, the implementing law, so that's okay. And if I recorded here at the second reading, maybe I talked about it with the pirát, here with Mr. Ferjenčík, he said that even in the diction of constitutional change, that they would like to expand something a little bit, so let's talk about it, of course. But we would like to discuss this at last on the House platform, so that it is at the level that we are already talking about it in the House within some legitimized platform, i.e. I'm sure it's already gone to second reading. And let's go tune it up. As we have gathered over the bill for a referendum, there will also be a seminar in the cooperation of several political parties, I have noticed. So it's great, and we want to work with everyone, and we should support each other like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u31	Thank you to Chairman Tomie Okamur. And now, with proper application, Mr Jan Bauer. A colleague, Marek, will prepare Výborný. We're in a debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u32	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me, for a short time, also my opinion on this issue. It would seem appropriate for me to talk about my 20-year community experience here as a deputy or a long-time mayor, but I'm not going to do it that way. Mainly because many of these arguments, here logically, have already been heard for me, and on the other hand, I feel enough humility and perhaps enough experience to be sure of two things. Firstly, the direct choice of mayors is an extremely sensitive subject and a sensitive matter. And secondly, as the SPD suggests, I don't think that's really possible, but it really can't be done. [[17,00 hours]] I would say here for a short time my personal and long-term experience of the legislative process here in this honourable House, because I think it is also very interesting. I personally consider the debate on this proposal by the SPD Members to be a waste of time, because we all know that this is a legislative failure. In the end, even the plaintiffs themselves admit it. In the justification of their proposal, they themselves state that the law will require further implementing regulations and constitutional changes. But they do not expect such a thing, along with their proposal, nor do they. This also makes the whole debate unnecessary about the advantages and disadvantages of the direct election of mayors, because we do not even know exactly what the proponents imagine in practice the direct choice. As I said, I have a more general point to make. In my experience in the Chamber of Deputies, we are discussing three types of laws in terms of quality. One group is made up of well-prepared and interlinked proposals which are meant seriously and which can become part of the rule of law, even though I recognise them, we can have long discussions about their content, we can even argue with them. The second group consists of purely populist proposals based on my experience as a manifestation of political marketing. Some political parties want to gain the favour of voters with these proposals, even though they know in advance that these proposals are problematic, expensive, or difficult to put into practice. But even such proposals in my experience can happen and have become part of the rule of law in the past, I repeat - unfortunately. But then there is a third group of laws - and in this case they are legislative bastards who can never become part of Czech law. They are sewn with a hot needle and have no link to existing legislation and constitutional framework. The political parties present them, although they know well that they can never go through the legislative process and be approved. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what I personally call legislative marketing. And this is exactly where the SPD's proposal for a direct mayor's choice goes. It is, in my opinion, sloppy and unrealistic, and the SPD has apparently presented it only with the intention to draw a line and declare its activity in Parliament. In my opinion, the SPD Members show not only that they despise Parliament but also that they may also despise their voters, whom they promised to choose directly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u33	I thank Mr Jan Bauer. Now Mr Marek Výborný, Mr Juránek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u34	Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, much has been said here. We have heard that municipalities do not work and that direct democracy is the only salvation that can save us at the level of municipalities and regions. For myself and for KDU-ČSL I must say that we do not perceive it this way, and if there is something very wrong with us, it is an approach to the fundamental law of our Republic and that is the Constitution. The Constitution isn't just any law that we can edit, amend, and so on. Theoretically, of course, they could, but I practically think that this is very dangerous, because any intervention in the Constitution means an intervention in the arrangements that apply here in the Czech Republic, and I think this is how it must be treated. And from this point of view, I understand that, although I have heard the words of Vice-President Okamura that they have a positive view of the legislative unions of both the House and the government, I understand this quite well, because, of course, these unions are assessing the proposal in a formal way and, in a formal way, it does not really conflict with the fact that it could not be discussed. But this is about the material aspect, the content of the proposal, and that, don't be mad at me, actually shows signs of considerable legislative pascula or dilettanteism. I'm sorry for the words, but it really does affect us. And of course, that thing has a wider connotation. Taking it away with one sentence that the conditions set by the implementing regulation or law is very cheap and very simple. We do not know what it will look like, it has not been discussed anywhere, notabene here on the House floor we have set up a committee for the Constitution led by Mrs Valachová, and if I am not mistaken, at the last meeting, where this item was included, we also adjourned it at the beginning of the committee's meeting precisely because there is more time for it, and the committee is only going to meet for the Act on a general referendum, so, I suppose, also for the Act on the direct election of mayors and captains. I really believe that this matter deserves a very broad debate. And we are not opposed to discussing a change in the electoral system. We are not opposed to discussing the direct choice of mayors, for example, in the small municipalities. However, the parameters of this proposal and the explanatory memorandum of the petitioner from the SPD movement do not arise and we believe that there is a need to proceed very carefully and with emphasis on professional debate not only here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, but also on the floor of the Senate as the upper chambers of Parliament and also together with the professional public, not only with the professional public at constitutional law level, but also with representatives of the Union of Towns and Communities, the Association of Local Government and Municipal Policy. Because if we don't discuss these things, we won't discuss them, and there will also be no amendments to the municipal law, the regional law, because it is closely related to this - it is not possible to change the Constitution with one point here, and then wonder what will happen - and I fear for the disruption at that communal level. There is also a need to register experience from abroad. Perhaps one example for all. We know how the administration of the Banskobystrica self-governing region went, when Marian Kotleba was there, he could be close to you when he had the entire council against him. And the danger that the municipalities, the regions here will be completely destabilized by this, is indeed at risk, and it is necessary to take these questions into account when discussing possible changes, if we actually get there. And in conclusion, let me say one more thing. Finally, I was glad that Vice-President Okamura here said that there was actually no rush and that there would be enough time for discussion and that you abandoned the idea that we had to accept something quickly and vote quickly, for example, in the autumn. Well, that's a preposterous situation, because, first of all, even if the Constitutional Law were passed by the House, there is the Senate's upper chamber, and we know what the position of the various parliamentary parties is there. And I believe that the Senate in these matters will be the important insurance policy and the constitutional system of the Czech Republic. On behalf of the KDU-ČSL Group, I would like to conclude by joining both the ODS Members' proposal and the TOP 09 to reject this proposal, precisely because it is not ready for us to open this matter on its basis, even in the second reading of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u35	I thank Mr Marek the Výborný. I'm gonna ask Stanislav Juránek to wait. With a factual remark, Mr Adamec. He's giving up? No. So, please, Mr Adamec, a factual point and then a duly signed-in Mr Stanislav Juránek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I've said a lot of things here today, but now I'd like to respond to a few things. President Okamura here said Mr. Babiš doesn't mind in this form. Well, I don't care about that. I'll admit that I don't take that as an argument at all. If you look at the government's explanatory report that sounds neutral, I've already said it here last time, because it's a government in demise, I think she should be careful in her comments. And if you look at the contents of the report, it's about something completely different. I warned you that the Constitution wasn't a ripping calendar, that it couldn't be done like that. Finally, the pirát' representative here said we could put more and more stuff in the Constitution. I think that's a bad procedure. Indeed, the Constitution should be changed in a different way, not by a parliamentary initiative. It should be, I would say, at the instigation of the government, it should go through all the institutions, institutions, it should be treated this way. Finally, I had to agree with a colleague from YES, what he said about the problem here, although, of course, we can argue about whether we want a direct choice or not. I reject it on principle only because someone says it is in all the countries of the European Union or Europe. Well, it's not like that. If that were the case, of course, there's no reason for us to behave like this. I really, really don't. [[17.10 hours]] I say again, the government's explanatory report is not clear at all, it's not neutral, I think it's a really difficult topic, and opening the Constitution with the fact that we're just going to put in these two sentences, which nobody seems to mind at first sight, I don't think that's the right way to go. So I'd like to say that really some agreements at this point can convince me that some unwritten coalition works here, at least partially, but it can't convince me that it's a proposal that we're prepared to vote on here at this first reading with the fact that we're going to send it to second reading. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u37	Thank you. My colleague Juránek will wait a little longer, there is a factual remark from Mr Patrik Nacher. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u38	Thank you, good afternoon. I'll follow up on what I said last time, and I still haven't been answered, that is. what is added value. What is the added value of the directly elected mayor if it were in Prague, the directly elected mayor. For example, the crisis that was there for the seven months. My colleague Pour was talking about politics and making it go faster, so I would like to ask again what added value would be. Because I can imagine that at the moment when the council and the council are in crisis, the council will call off the council, but not the directly elected mayor, a new council will be elected, but the new council will be completely different from that of the mayor, so I wonder how the real policy will be done and it will not continue to be politicised. Because it's factual, I'm not going to develop any theories here about whether, in smaller municipalities, the chance to succeed directly elected mayor, the one who really is the best, as they say, hasn't gone through those political secretariats, or just the one who's most famous. Maybe he's an athlete who doesn't play hockey anymore and comes and runs and wins. That means, I would like to call on those colleagues to - because I said I had such a neutral position - to tell me the added value of the directly elected mayor, without knowing that his powers are increasing significantly and what the next convention will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, Mr Jakub Michálek. Mr. Juránek is as patient as I am. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u40	My point in fact, the response to my colleague Nacher. The added value of this law is that Mrs. Mayor Krnáčová will no longer be elected in Prague, and, secondly, whoever will be elected to her place will not have to bribe most of the representatives with posts of over CZK 100,000 per month in order to remain in office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Stanislav Juránek, now duly enrolled, will be prepared by Mr Karel Krejza. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u42	Thank you. I still can't get used to the actual remarks, because one actually gets to the word for a long time and I won't be able to react to some of it back. I would still like to say three things, or in three procedures, I would like to say three things. The first is that I am a supporter of direct democracy and I have been a supporter of direct democracy since 1998. I can say that I have tried very many procedures in this matter, here in the Chamber of Deputies I stood as a representative of the South Moravian Region, who prepared for two years and then passed a law on a national referendum here. After the second reading of this Chamber of Deputies, I was authorized to withdraw this law because what it had become meant that all the agreements we had within the political parties within the South Moravian Region had fallen. I want to quite stress this thing here, because I am convinced that this problem cannot be resolved alone, and I admit that I have tried many other things later, but that there has never been enough time and there is not enough time for these things to be properly discussed. That is why I believe that the system approach must come, and there I have learned that these three things must be discussed at the same time. That, at the same time, the electoral system must be discussed, whole, complete, as some of the innuendoes have already fallen on him, at the same time as the referendum and at the same time as the direct choice itself. If we do not discuss these three things at the same time, then we will not be able to resolve this matter. So that's the system approach. The next thing is procedure. The procedure follows for me that it is necessary to start with a seminar, i.e. backwards than the way it is spoken here, i.e. start with the seminar, after the seminar, just look at the implementing rules, the changes to the laws, and only then submit it, after the conclusion of this procedure, the constitutional law, and only then comprehensively, when we have these things, only then approve them. The reason is simple and simple, because then the amendment to the ordinary law can change the constitutional law, virtually. the practical part of the constitutional law that we will not come to any sensible functioning, and then it is better to remain with representative democracy. I can say that as far as the South Moravian Region is concerned, I was also debating direct and representative democracy with the ODS club with which we were in the coalition at the time, and that we were discussing this debate here, and that is precisely why I had to withdraw the law as the captain of the South Moravian Region for the simple reason that he had made disproportionate changes here. So I don't want to talk about specific cases right now, because specific cases, and I'm glad to hear from my colleague Ferenčák that the elections are being repeated here, I mean I... [[voices from the left side of the hall]] Excuse me? I'm terribly sorry, I haven't learned my name properly, but I think I'm gonna say it right now - Ferenčik. I said it right. Again, I'm sorry, I'm very sorry to have someone change my name, especially in that first letter. So I'm very sorry, and I won't do it again if I'm not mistaken. [[Voices from the diaper.]] So the matter is in this position -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u43	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace. I think it would be a good idea for it to be in a dignified environment, colleagues. I know that you are also colleagues from the former council, I would like to hear from the Member. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u44	Yes, thank you. That is why I would like this discussion to continue in some way, and therefore I would like to use one more institute that is possible here, and that is to return this law to recast. The reason is not that we do not deal with this, but rather the opposite, so that the reverse procedure can be chosen, i.e. the procedure to start with the seminar and end with constitutional law. I intercede for this because I wish there was a change, because I have practical experience when it might help, but I don't want to talk about them today. I want to start talking about these at the seminar, and only then here in the Chamber of Deputies, so that we can really consider that there are situations where it is better and when a robe from Slovakia, from the Slovak state, is in a more favourable position against the governor from the Czech Republic, and just to compare these things here at the level of the mayors, to consider which method is better. So I intercede for what I said, and repeat, I suggest that we return this law to recast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u45	děkovat you, Mr Stanislav Juránek. And I have three factual points here. Mr. Vojtěch Munzar, Mr. Antonín Staněk and Mr. Roman Onderka. Then we have a properly logged in. Now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I have a factual point on President Michálek through Mr President. I hope you won't suspect that I would support Madame Mayor Krnáčová from Prague. But really because you disagree in a particular city, even if it was the capital, with the steps of a particular person, we are not going to change the system here for the whole Czech Republic. I just can't. I am also in Kladno in opposition. I also disagree with some of the steps of our town hall, and I don't want to bring it here because we're talking about the system here. And the system needs to be ready. So please, it's really irresponsible to change the whole system here in the Czech Republic just because we disagree with some of the city hall's actions in a specific place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u47	Thank you, Mr Munzar, for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Antonín Staněk and then Mr Onderka, then Mr Bartoš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u48	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Like my previous speaker, I, too, would like to respond to Mr Michálek in my factual remark by means of you. I am quite terrified of the fact that we will be presenting constitutional laws here just because we do not like one situation in one city. Lex Krnáčová cannot be a constitutional law. For Christ's sake, the Constitution is something that has been created for a certain period of time, it has a certain system and cannot be implemented in this way. I am already passing on the remarks on criminal matters, which should rather be given in a different way, if the colleague has, by your means, the idea that someone has been bribed here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Roman Onderka also made a point of fact and then Mr Ivan Bartoš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u50	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, I must confess that I understand the pirát, but I perceive that this has been said at a certain exaggeration. Because of course, just as I and they know that even in the system that is today and which would be even after a direct choice, there would be a certain possibility in the quotes of corruption and the way out to meet within the council of any municipality, Prague as the capital. There's only one thing I'd like to say about the law that Mr. Juránek here said. We're going to be dealing with the continuation of the debate on transport infrastructure on paragraph 29 today. We are talking about a law that is very important for the Czech Republic. And yet, during the first trial of the debate we had on Friday, we found that there would be problems. We've been discussing this law a long time ago. We discuss it within the Ministry of Transport. There is some relative agreement within the various Members' Clubs of the Chamber of Deputies. And yet we are not sure if this law will pass and in what form it will pass. And today we're talking about a constitutional law that, of course, needs to get much more support not only in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, and we're starting with a "let's open it up and then we're going to fold it on our knees" way. I am clearly joining those who have put forward a motion for rejection here for social democracy. I don't think they belong in this House politics. If we want something like this, let us discuss it first and then put it as a parliamentary motion to the Chamber of Deputies in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u51	Thank you, Mr Roman Onderk. Before we continue to make an actual comment by Ivan Bartoš, two apologies. Mrs Kveta Matušovská from 17 o'clock for personal reasons and Mrs Markéta Adamová from 17.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u52	Thank you. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would just like to ask my fellow Members if they respond to a de facto comment - we are not in the debates on Facebook where people see the headline. My colleague Michálek responded to Mr Nachert, who asked how he is, for example. added value. And Jakub Michálek said added value, for example. So the reaction that it's some special law, Lex Krnáčová - please, when you respond to someone who speaks in front of you, listen to what you respond to so that you don't have to turn what he said. So Jakub Michálek set an example for Mr. Nachert. [[Comments from the O.R.]] He turned to him, too. So don't give any impression that this is some purposeful amendment to the Constitution because of Mrs Krnáčová, who, I believe, will not defend whether or not legislation is what it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u53	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. My colleague Staněk claims one more point of fact. I'm sure my colleague Krejza will be patient. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I am very sorry, I do not like the factual point of view, but by your means to Mr Bartoš. I confess that I listened very well to my colleague Michálek. And it was consistent with what the added value was. And he replied that, for example, the added value is that Mrs Krnáčová will not be elected. That's what I responded to. If, for example, someone is able to give one particular example of this, it is pathetic under the constitutional law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u55	So, unfortunately, I will ask Mr Krejza to be patient, because here I have the factual comment of Mr Patrik Nacher, Jakub Michálek, and Pavel Blažek is still reporting from the scene, unless someone beats him with an electronic application. That's how it's gonna be. Now, Mr Patrik Nacher, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u56	I'm used to Nacher, Nahr, Machr, it doesn't matter now. I'll take it. I'll respond to it... Well, my question, in order to be quite correct, followed up on what was said here last time. This is added value compared to the fact that there was simply some coalition crisis in Prague as well as in any other city. Six seven months. And that's why my question was that if there was a direct choice of mayors, mayors, it wouldn't have happened. And I wanted to look for the added value, because while now the council can go to every council - in Prague it's always the last Thursday of every month, you can come and see it. Every last Thursday, the council may call off the entire council, including the mayor or the mayor. So what's the added value of the proposal when the council calls off the council, but it can't call off the mayor or the mayor? That's what I was reacting to. Because it was said here as a reason that the directly elected mayor, the mayor, would just bring the added value so that there would be no such crisis as it was in Prague for six months. So just so we're clear, the whole chain of questions. And that's what I was reacting to. I'm not satisfied with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u57	Thank you, Mr Patrik Nacher, for keeping time on the point of fact. Before I give the floor to Mr Jakuba Michálek as well as to a point of fact, I state that there has been an apology between 18 and 19 o'clock for Mr Dominik Feri's professional reasons. Now, Mr Jakub Michálek, on a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think that is precisely the problem, the fact that there is constant appeal at every meeting of the council every month. And then it ends up being a fight at 2:00 a.m., and at 2:00 a.m., the Council of the City of Prague withdraws. And, of course, it's not just about Prague. I feel like we've lost the ability to abstraction here. What I said about Mayor Krnáčová, of course, concerns all the mayors. And if anyone is to be mayor of the village, then they should have the trust of the citizens. That's the basic principle behind the direct choice of mayors. And that's the added value. Whoever is in charge of the community is supposed to have the trust of the citizens. There are mayors who are indirectly elected, who have the trust of citizens. But unfortunately, the system also generates people who don't have that trust and who have very low percentage confidence, like about 10 or 15 percent. That means 80 or 90 percent don't want those people there and there's nothing we can do about them because they're being held there by the political representation. The key added value is precisely that a clear relationship is being formed between the person who votes and the person who is elected to have his trust. This is unfortunately in the representative democracy, virtually. in the indirect system, to be exact, there's only an indirect bond, and in a number of cases, it causes deformation. The capital of Prague is the most visible of all examples. If some colleagues have taken it personally, please excuse me. Of course, it was an example that would lead to the abstraction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u59	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Karel Krejza, duly enrolled in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u60	Mr President, honourable Members, I hear here that municipalities do not work. I don't know exactly who said that, but I don't think so. I don't know if you know what ECE indicators are that we regularly do in our town, but also in other municipalities. There the satisfaction of citizens with the functioning of the municipality is 90 percent. How much confidence do we have here as MPs? From the citizens? I think we're about a third of those mayors who aren't elected directly, but citizens know them. We have 6.5,000 municipalities here. So how many of these communities do you think aren't working? Units of percent? Well, maybe. Well, that's still quite a success. And public sector debt? How much debt do communities have compared to regions? Compared to our republic? I think the municipalities run much, much better. So why are we here to deal with something that I think works? There are exceptions. Of course. And the fact that we're here to tear down the Constitution because of the current situation in several municipalities, that we're going to undermine one support column in representative democracy? Well, I can't agree with that. Then let's suggest the whole thing. If we really want to move on to a more civilized principle, let us introduce the CEO of the municipalities with full powers so that he can call off his union leaders so that he can interfere with the territorial plans and take responsibility for this. But let's let the citizens elect the mayor or mayor, let's not give him the powers -- well, what's the point? Well, useless. He's responsible for everything, he's got no powers, and I think it's gonna stop working for good. I really can't support this. Maybe I understand fellow pirát, I don't know how many of them were driving or trying to run a community. I don't want to try them out here, train them, but it's really not easy at all. Please, let us not break the principles that our predecessors have created here, and they were people that I very much respected. This is not a good way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u61	I thank Mr Karel Krejza. I'm gonna ask my colleague Valachová to be patient. The rapporteur and the chairman of the club Jan Farský came forward with priority rights. I give him my word. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with the experience of the mayor I have been through. I became old in 2006, and then we won the election so that we could put together a candidate so much that it was interesting for people that they gave us enough votes to succeed in the elections, and at the same time we knew that when we were campaigning, we had to do the campaign so that we could put together a coalition in the second part. As I recall, of the 21 mandates, we had 7 with 27 percent and the other had 4 mandates. In 2010, we repeated the mandate in Semily with the same group. And once again, the fact that we were putting together a candidate, that we had to convince people about a common vision, it was so important that visions in other parts of that city could be realized. And it really worked by coming here to convince the ones you want on the list first. Not everyone wants to, but they will accept the vision, they will convince others, and you must learn to argue before the election even takes place, you must learn to convince people that it makes sense where you're going, but at the same time adjust your ideas in the debates, in the dozens of debates you're going through. And that may be the best mayor's school to come. It is in that you must try to succeed so that you can fulfill your visions. In 2010, we received 47 percent, and out of 21 mandates, we had 12 mandates. Yet we have taken on the hardest opposition to the council, because it seemed perfectly right for the ideas and management of the city that had been controlled since the beginning. In 2014, the situation became quite complicated, because although we won the elections quite forcefully, we had some 35 percent, the second was the new YES, I think, with about half the vote, so the elections took place quite convincingly, but the result was that the YES movement in our country had put together a candidate for everyone against the winner. But it was precisely the fact that when you build city leadership without getting support for it in advance, it is difficult for the city leadership to work in the long run. It also took about five months, the coalition fell apart, and the mayor was the woman who had the most preferential votes, leading the winning candidate. Just like it was years ago. In both cases, when I was honored to be the leader of the candidate, I also led the candidate to the council with the highest number of preferential votes. And from my point of view, it was very functional. It was also very functional in that you have to look for a match since the selection of the candidate and then you have to look for a broad consensus in the management of the municipality, because if you are not looking for it, you are obviously dividing the municipality significantly. Yet, in large cities in particular, I am not a fan of the direct election of mayors. If we're talking about it, and I think that there are the size of a community, such as a community where counsel isn't set up, then there may be a direct choice of mayors that makes sense that it's going to be a certain test of how the system can work. In them, the mayor is already gifted with higher powers in the decision-making and management of the municipality, so the change in this size category of municipalities will not be so crucial in the impact on how the municipality can function. In the Mayors and Independents Club, we discussed this proposal very widely, because in one of the previous parliamentary periods, we were the ones who, after going through a big debate at the government level about whether a direct choice was to be introduced or not to introduce a direct choice of mayors that ended with the government abandoning this activity, so we submitted this proposal. But when we presented it, we presented it with a limitation for the smallest municipalities, and we presented it with an implementing bill, so that everything that really sounds like the problems that this bill, this press number 40, will cause so that it doesn't happen. Because the way it's designed at the moment, this law is a slap in the water. This law is a step into the dark. This law will not bring a direct choice of mayors. If it was approved by God, it would bring about a disruption of municipal policy. That's why we won't support him as starosta. Because we are in a situation where, and this did not sound very often here, but it is also a fact that you will read in the Government's opinion, the bill is even contrary to the international treaties we are committed to. Those are things we can't cross by saying we're gonna rewrite. The work that is linked to whether or not we introduce a direct choice of mayors is not given by writing an A4 on one, and it is still wrong, by changing the Constitution, and I will say that I have introduced a direct choice of mayors. That's really going to upset community policy. The part of politics, the area that has the greatest trust of citizens. Is that the target? I hope not. The work that needs to be done is on implementing laws. And I already mentioned it here last time. We're ready, and we're already working on the fact that as mayors and independents, I think it's kind of our own, we're going to put together a seminar that we're going to invite experts from abroad to present their experience of how it's introduced to them and what it's done for the positives and negatives. It's such a fundamental parametric change that the debate really has to be professional, not fired from the table like that. [[17.40 hours]] From this point of view, therefore, although we have put forward a law on the direct election of mayors, although we have adjusted this way, but in a far-reaching document, power, and we have not been able to enforce it, the risk that this bill is, we do not intend to take, and therefore, as starosta and Independents, we will not support it until further reading and we will vote in favour of the rejection, and if it does not pass, the return of the petitioner to recast. But that's a little euphemism, because this isn't about overwork, this is about a whole new job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u63	Thank you, Mr Jan Farský. Now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová and Mr Ivan Adamec will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u64	Mr President, honourable Members, we are debating the country's most important law, the Constitution. It is important to say that direct choice of mayors is not an expression of direct democracy. That's absolute nonsense. The direct election of mayors is only a technical change in representative democracy, because now and eventually, the mayor represents us. And the question is whether it makes sense for this technical change in representative democracy to insure communities, cities, bring chaos there, maybe just because, as I have noticed, in a part of the political spectrum of direct democracy, it's kind of sexy. But that's not enough to change the Constitution. Very little. He's a rabbit in a bag we don't know what he's gonna do. As the previous speakers said, a few points that may happen, but may not happen either. We should therefore also not support this irresponsible proposal and intervention in the Constitution of the Czech Republic. It was said here that there would be a more effective relationship in case of support between those who vote, that is, voters, and mayor. Really? We could probably say that and vote only if we knew how effective such a mayor would have a relationship with the council, the council, and we don't know that. So from my point of view, the way it's presented, it would be very ineffective so far. Chaos, that's all that would happen. The proposal also appears to be based on fundamental analyses. Yes, there was an analysis of the direct election of the mayors by the Ministry of the Interior, but otherwise than describing the proposal. As early as 2009. Yes, in the first phase, 39 percent of the mayors voting really expressed two thirds for direct choice. Then, however, the Union of Towns and Municipalities found out exactly what this meant, that the mayor would be outside the council, that he would not be able to approve the budget according to the proposal at the time - and we do not know what the proposal is, which we are voting on at the moment. And then two-thirds of the mayors who took part in this poll voted again and two-thirds of the mayors said no. And I don't read that in the explanatory report on this novel. I would also like to stress that we are changing the system when we are in a situation where the mayors and mayors, unlike us, Members, enjoy the highest trust in society, ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of representative democracy, and, as we can see, citizens are satisfied with them. For this reason, I am in favour of not supporting this irresponsible and chaotic amendment to the Constitution, which is merely a technical adaptation of representative democracy, and, in the event of a motion for rejection, even supporting the rejection of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u65	Thank you, Mrs Valachová. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Leo Luzar. My colleague Adamec is ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm listening to the debate that's going on here, I'm hearing the opinions, and I'm sensing that they're not discussed. It was said here by the petitioners that the proposal is an open option, let's say, which they would like to conclude at second reading that they were advised to do so by the legislature. I see it, I understand it, which is why I am curious about the second reading that will take place, how the individual comments that are being made here will be clarified. That is why I am quite willing to support the procedure of this law further in order to clarify this, because the question will always come back. It's not a question right now that we're gonna reject it and it's never gonna happen again. No, it will always be on the table, constantly looking for ways to get this direct democracy to the communities. For me personally in this discussion, I would very much like it to be clarified - it is said that the best of the best will be the mayor. I understand, but then the others must be the worst of the worst in order for the affair to be there. In other words, if he decides one two percent between the one who's gonna be the favorite who's gonna sit in that chair with the mayor's chain, and the one that ended up under it, is it crucial that he's the best? Aren't they both identical? So I wonder how the petitioners would like to resolve this contradiction, for example. I understand if there's a clear candidate who outnumbers everyone by 10-15 percent, I'll say well, yes, he's popular among the citizens, so let him do the mayor. But if there's no boundaries, no limit, then it can also happen that among the best of the best will decide one two percent and that would be a problem. In the European Union, so-called. Spitzenkandidat to do in candidates and design them. That, too, is a journey. But it turns out it's not discussed and it'll be a second reading job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u67	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec, duly signed up for the debate, so far the last. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I've performed more than once today, but now I'm going to try a little differently. Here it has fallen - citizens want, citizens want to vote. I have to ask myself, what is the result of the elections in the communal, that is, in municipalities, in cities, in statutory cities. The goal is to elect a council. Who has the greatest power in the community? Does anyone really think he's the mayor and that he's gonna be the mayor after a direct election? The greatest power lies on the representatives of the village. And that's just the angle of the problem of how to perceive it. The difference between the view of the city's citizens and the view of the city's representatives, I think, is minimal. People have the opportunity to choose representatives exactly according to the way I mentioned here at the beginning of my speech. That means people vote for the council. The winning party here has less than 30%, we have a government with no confidence, and yet it rules us, but the problem is that if in some way it doesn't manage the majority, that means trust here in the House, the laws will not go smoothly here unless it's ad hoc. And yet the same is true in cities. When a council is elected to reflect the municipal or municipal community, the council has the greatest authority. The representative decides on the zoning plan, the council decides on the city's budget, the council decides on the city's investment. That's the basis, and that's the result of the municipal elections. Apart from the mayor, as my colleague Valachová rightly said, who would actually be isolated from the system, and the question needs to be asked here: Do we really want the mayor to have the power of the council? That's a direct choice, and we're going to have, I don't know, 6,250 dictatorships in cities in quotation marks, because the mayor will be directly elected, and then let's say, if he's directly elected, he'll have those powers. But it doesn't work that way today. Today, few elections have come to such an end, especially in larger cities, that a group, a party, would receive more than 50 per cent in the council, and would be able to create the council itself, to elect the leadership of the city itself. Those are the exceptions, I call them Las Vegas Syndrome, and as they turn out, we all know that in the end. Too much power in the communal is bad, it causes great envy, it causes, I would say, negotiations that, in a number of cases, are not even compatible with the morals of this society. There are various criminal charges against the coalition that won the 50 percent. That's the way it is in a few cities. And here, my colleague Farský rightly said that they preferred to take the sharp opposition part into the coalition because, after all, they have to vote in some way and it is not possible to face the flood of criminal notification and some other problematic act after each vote. Eventually, you all know it. If the opposition doesn't enforce something in the council today, where is he going? Sue for Czech Television, report. That's just the way it is. Let's face it. Or other media is being sued today. Today we have the Internet, today anything in the media space is being made. I don't want to put a dog's head on the press here. [[17.50 hours]] So the representative is a reflection of the people who live in the locality. I mean, when I vote for the council, it's a reflection of the company, the city, the community. So the will of the citizens will be expressed in these elections. They will choose the council and the council, of course - they are looking for the majority to simply do the work they are required by the law on municipalities that citizens want them to do. We just want to put the mayor out here and put him in the hostile community of the council, which will also be elected but the cross-section of the society. What is the difference between the directly elected mayor and the council in this case? Well, that's just the point of view. Some of you think that if you elect directly the mayor and the council separately, it'll be good for the citizens. I don't think so. And indeed the will of citizens and the will of the council is one and the same. I will return to this honorable plenary in the House. How do you think we're folded here in the House? What does that match? Well, the will of citizens in this state. It's true whether we want to or not. Those who wanted to vote went to vote and elected. That means, it's actually a cross-section of society, we, each one of us, are part of society and we were elected in the parliamentary elections. I would very much like to discuss this. President Okamura here said it was pointless that the Civil Democratic Party had a different opinion on this. Okay, but that's what we should be fighting about here, because I don't know yet -- here I heard "we want a direct choice of mayors" and everyone who said it here, except they read a text written on a paper that was very similar. And if that's how you imagine a discussion, I don't see it that way. And by the way, I will return to what I have heard here from my fellow President, Mr Michálek, through Mr President. Mr President, if she is directly elected Mayor of Prague and wants to control a council that can be chosen in a completely different way, and she decides not to listen to her, then what does the Mayor of Prague have to do? He must use all his social capital to get the representatives' votes for those strategic decisions. And that's a lot harder when he does it after the election than when those parties go to the election with the idea that they want to run for office, and according to the election results, they tell each other which election programs, where they have some intersections, and with whom it's good to establish the government in that village and city. That's how it works. And if you think you can get the mayor out of this, then think about it and let's discuss it. But I don't think so, and it's gonna end up really, really fatal. It is tricky to compare the electoral systems of different countries in Europe. Let me give you an example. We, as we sometimes have partner cities in Poland, Slovakia, and unlike us, have partner cities from a greater distance - we cannot afford it. And the mayor of the small town in Great Britain has arrived. When we asked him what his position was in the town council, he laughed and said - I'm just representing the village. The matter of the council is completely different. Well, if that's what you want, okay, then there's gonna be some guy who's gonna show up everywhere with no authority, and that council is gonna be the biggest authority to decide for itself. Let us remember that if we don't intervene in these things -- let's choose, it'll either be a direct choice with everything, the mayor will decide everything, and then he'll have a big responsibility, and then let's say he's responsible to those citizens that he has to defend himself, that's okay. Or maybe we'll vote in representative terms, when the council has that responsibility, and by the way, the voters can count it, too. I wouldn't call it bribery, but I had to deal with them, because if you want to push through the budget with investments, if you want to do strategic things, there's nothing else left for you, and it's definitely more difficult because they're gonna give it to you, as the people say, when you run for yourself, so what would we listen to you for? That's just how it is in practice. But on the other hand, I was saying here, I'm not resisting the introduction of the majority elements into the system, removing some of the problems that are there - I honestly listed them here at the beginning of my opening speech. But please, this is not the way to go. Let's discuss, put down the A4 papers, and let's say our own views on the microphone. I'm in. I'm in! But I haven't seen it this way. Only those who know what they're talking about or those who just think it's politically correct are talking. It's a political gamble. Let's not do this, let's say no. Going back to redoing isn't what, but if it comes to that, then I'm going back to being reworked, because even if there's nothing, it's still a better way than moving on to the next reading. Plus, I'm warning you, I've been here before with the designs everyone was saying at the beginning, that's bullshit, let's not do that. Eventually, another reading came through, and you know how it turned out. He's a colleague of Kalousek's saying it well here. Do you know what a camel is? That's a horse that's going through a legislative process. And that's exactly what happened. But here's the constitutional law. I already told you. Let's not do this, let's not do this. Let's get it back, let's get it off the table and move on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u69	I thank Mr Ivan Adamc. He raised two factual points, Mr Marek the Výborný and Mr Jakub Michálek. Now, therefore, Mr Marek the Výborný's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u70	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on my colleague Luzar through you. I do not think that this is the right procedure to say: although the law shows many inaccuracies, confusion, legislatively it is not quite correct, but let us let it go to second reading. It may have been customary here, or it is customary to do so, but I consider it very dangerous, and then we are not responsible. Let us honestly say that this law needs to be prepared better and discussed. I believe that the fundamental amendments to the Constitution should also be a government bill, not an activity of any of the club members, when it is such an essential matter. But what bothers me is the idea that it's not exactly kosher, but we're gonna put it into second reading, and that's where we're gonna discuss it. I think that's a bad business card for us, the Chamber of Deputies. And if that's the way it used to be here, then I think it might be a threat to what my colleague Adamec said in front of me. And I do not add to this, and I therefore recommend not to proceed like this, not only with the Act on the Direct Choice of Mayors, the Governors, but also with all others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u71	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jakub Michálek, Mr Miroslav Kalousek will be prepared. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to ask that we not be intimidated here by the direct choice of mayors. We had a haunting here that if a contract register was introduced, the entire state administration would collapse. Now we have the haunting again, if a direct mayor's choice is introduced, our municipal policy will collapse. The direct choice of mayors is in all the surrounding states when you look, Slovakia, Austria, Poland, in some states of Germany, not in all federal states. So they have it there, and it works for them. So, please, let's not make it sound like there's a revolution going on here. It works in other states. I wanted to follow up on the performance and on what was said in Mr Adamec's speech that perhaps the mayor should somehow control the council. Of course, if they split up, the mayor gets singled out, and he's directly elected independently of the council, so there has to be an adjustment to his powers. That's what we talked about last time, that the mayor must have executive powers, and the council must have competence to decide on long-term strategic decisions and control the mayor. So, of course, it's going to go hand in hand, and it's going to be covered by the implementing law, just like the implementing law today - the municipal system. I think that one way that leads from this debate and also from the question of how we can approve the amendment of the Constitution without having an implementing law is that we can simply delegate the choice within the Constitution, the direct choice of mayors, that it can provide for the law. Not so that it is everywhere, in all municipalities, whether in small municipalities, even in the largest, in the capital of Prague, but simply in those cases where implementing law provides for it. Because this will also solve the fact that the direct choice will only be introduced when we are clear about how the competences between executive management and some strategic direction will be divided. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I state the apology of Mr Jiří Kobza between the 18th and 21st hours of the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. And now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, on a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u74	Thank you for your attention. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make two comments. The first is to ask whether we could not think about the priorities of what is really bothering citizens in the Czech Republic, what is bothering the public in the Czech Republic. I'll bet my hand and have it cut off for the fact that if something really doesn't bother them, the way the mayor is elected to their community. We devote a huge amount of hours and energy here to discussing this, but I really don't think this is the main priority issue of the Czech Republic at the moment. Just think about that, please, nothing else. That's note number one. Note number two, and I very much appreciate that my colleague Adamec quoted me, but, and I must correct that, I say that the camel is a horse that went through the vote of the Chamber of Deputies. Not that has gone through a legislative process, because the legislative process includes internal commentary procedures, external commentary procedures, legislative council meetings, and there is still some rational presence. But then it comes to us, and here's any rational suspect, and here's where the camel comes from. Have a good day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u75	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Leo Luzar with a point of fact, Mr Stanjura with a point of fact, and Mr Munzar also with a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u76	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare to respond to that remark. I am not a supporter of the referendum, I am not a supporter of the direct election of the mayors, but I do honour that somewhere there is an effort to push these things through. We have an unfulfilled Constitution with regard to the referendum, and I see that citizens want it, and so, yes, I will be a supporter of the referendum. I can see that we do not have a direct choice of mayors, yes, but if the citizens want it, I will be a supporter of the direct election of mayors. That's what our representation should sound like. We're here for the voters, for the citizens who vote for us here. Here was a reminder of what is important to those citizens and that we should address the important issues that are bothering citizens today and every day. In the morning we witnessed things moving and what is important and what is less important, what is more important. And I don't want to develop this debate. It was made clear here that the legislation recommended this procedure to the plaintiffs of this law. I want to allow them to discuss this, to clarify clearly the legislative problems that are definitely going with the law, we all know that, and then maybe even acknowledge that this is a problem. But don't close your eyes to this problem, which has been coming back here for x years, and it's coming back and saying, it's not really a problem. It is. Citizens feel the need. It's not just a fiction of one political party. At least that's how I feel. Why am I meeting this? As a local councilman, I'm seeing the problems, the favorite mayor, the unpopular mayor, how to deal with it. I can feel it all. But if we don't talk it out here, it's just a problem. Again, I would like to point out that the Constitution also knows the unfulfilled things that we will discuss in the context of the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u77	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, President Stanjura, also with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u78	First of all, Mr Luzar. It's not true. The Constitution on the referendum is fulfilled, we owe nothing. What many suggest is not missing in the Constitution, it is legislative, but it is not true that it is missing in the Constitution. [[unintelligible]] Today we have March 6th and most likely in exactly seven months we will know the results of the municipal elections, so I would say that it is very likely that this will be October 5th, October 6th. What's our hurry? You really think you can make it to the new system this year? No. So we might as well go back to redoing it. What you're proposing - and I'm actually with Mr. Chairman Michálek - is that if it makes sense, then the directly elected mayor or mayor must be given much greater powers than he has today. And that's a tough debate, and for that, I think we need to debate not that there are deadlines for committee, but before that. [[♪ So ♪]] Because it's exactly against it, we say. [[unintelligible]] That means we're fixing the mayor for the entire term. We'll fix it for the entire term. Today every council, many of my colleagues have talked about it, can call off the mayor if he doesn't proceed correctly, doesn't do the things he promised and so on. For example, the idea of the SPD calling him off, so then we get in shape, and I warn him that we're going to keep calling him off. The mayor can win by one vote. He can make a direct choice. And all those who are not satisfied with the result can, according to these proposals, call for an appeal vote. I think it's right that the person who votes also withdraws, which we have today in representative democracy in the community. They're voting for the council. They're calling off the council. Here, a group of citizens will elect a mayor, and another group will not accept the result and call it off. No stability, more chaos, and the citizens' confidence in the municipal council and mayor will fall, which today is the highest of all institutions in public space.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u79	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, Mr Kalousek, will be prepared, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u80	Third time today, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to respond again to President Michálek through Mr President. You know, what you said here, first let's make a change, and then we'll just propose how it should work -- it seems to me that we're doing it a little backwards here. First we should have an idea of a complex system change and then let's talk about it. But that's how we change something that works. The mayors have the greatest trust in citizens these days. Far bigger than we are here in the Chamber of Deputies, and that's because they deserve it. They're closest to the citizens, and the cities and municipalities work. You might think you don't like it in some town, maybe I don't like it in some town, but the system works completely. Why change it at all costs? And if we say that a system is better, then we need to know why it's better, not just to say it's better, and now we're gonna make it up to be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u81	Thank you. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u82	Thank you. Mr Luzar relativized my comment on what is important to citizens, with the fact that what we discussed here this morning is not very important to citizens, perhaps less than the issue we are discussing now. I believe that what is important to citizens is usually said to those citizens themselves. And that the issue from this morning was important to them, they showed eleven places in the Czech Republic at relatively massive demonstrations with tens of thousands of participation. I'm happy to take a ticket to the front row when the citizens come out to the streets for a direct mayor's choice. Let's kind of imagine if something like this could happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u83	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Leo Luzar's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u84	Thank you. I will only replicate briefly, and I will be very happy when the law on the general referendum comes on the table, until the right-hand support comes out, because that is precisely the expression of the citizens, the right, not the square by shouting, but by expressing in the referendum the things that weigh them. So I assume that the law on the general referendum will pass through this House like a butter knife. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u85	Thank you. I have no written application - and also a colleague Munzar. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u86	One more time. Relax. We've had that before. I remember that, too. But I don't want to respond to that. I think the procedure is a classic salami method. We're gonna hit the virus system, then we're gonna wonder what he's gonna do to us with the Constitution. For God's sake, use your head! Colleagues, let's not kill something that works! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u87	Thank you. Now I don't see anyone with an application. I'm looking around. I'm done with the conversation. Are the plaintiffs' representatives interested in the final word? Yes, it is. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank you, dear colleagues, to all those who have spoken in the debate, and I would like to ask all of you to release this law to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u89	I thank Mr Radek Rozvoral and now the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word. Isn't that right? Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u90	In the divided debate, almost countless Members spoke with opinions from all sides and various spectrums. Two fundamental proposals have been made to vote at first reading, one to reject this law and one to reject it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u91	Yes, we are now to deal with procedural proposals. The first is to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion by Mr Juránek. I'm gonna check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I will arrange for my colleagues from the foyer to come to the House, and we will decide on the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion in the vote of fifty-four, once the number of Members has settled, and after that the motion for rejection, which has been tabled several times, will be supported several times. It seems that all who wish to express their will by voting are present in the hall. I am opening the vote number 54 and I am asking who is in favour of returning the proposal to the applicant for completion. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 54 from 161 Members present for 50, against 86. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the motion to reject, in the vote number 55, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of rejecting the proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 55 from 161 Members present for 50, against 87. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We can therefore proceed to order the motion submitted to the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. I'm asking if there's another proposal for a guarantee committee. It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the Guarantee Committee, the Constitutional Committee. We will decide in the vote number 56, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 56 from 162 Members present for 153, against 4. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees of the Chamber of Deputies. Does anyone else have a suggestion? Yes, Mrs Vildumetzová and the rapporteur are also applying for another proposal. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u92	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a proposal that this House press should still be directed to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u93	Yes. [[Messenger. Farsky no longer wishes to speak.]] So the rapporteur has no other proposal. If no one has any further proposal, then we will decide in the vote on the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development in the vote number 57 which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 57 of 163 present for 156, against 4. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has also been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The time limit for the hearing shall be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. I see Mr. Birke. [[He announces that he wants to order one more committee.]] But we've already missed that. I can't do that anymore because we've decided and I've called for some sort of... [[Messenger. Birke no longer insists on his application.]] So if it's different... [[There's a messenger calling for a word. Kalousek.]] Amongst the points, President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u94	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, please forgive the delay for the small intermezzo, but on Thursday afternoon we will all meet at a joint meeting of the two chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic for the inauguration of the President of the Czech Republic and its term of office. It is a joint meeting of the two chambers, which is thus governed by the law, when the President of the Chamber of Deputies will chair and send invitations to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. So it is not the President's action. For reasons I do not understand, the Rector of Masaryk University in Brno was not invited to this event by Mikuláš Bek and the Rector of the University of South Bohemia, the other rectors logically refused to participate in this event from collegial cohesion. If this were an action by the President, who is familiar with his personal hatred and revenge, there would be nothing to be done about it, but I do not understand why the representative of our House, President Vondráček, did not invite Rector Bek and Rector of South Bohemia University. I want to believe that this is just an administrative deficiency, that this is just a misunderstanding, and because today is Tuesday and inauguration is on Thursday and we have modern technology, so I want to believe that the President of the Chamber of Deputies can still invite all the Rectors in the Czech Republic to this extraordinary event with an apology that thanks to administrative oversight, probably some accountant who did it for the first time or so, and asks all the Czech and Moravian universities to attend this event. [[entertainment]] Because this is our jurisdiction and he is our President of the Chamber of Deputies! And I would like it to do the will of the Chamber of Deputies, not the will of another constitutional institution, as respectable as the President of the Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u95	I thank Mr Kalousek. The President of the Chamber of Deputies is claiming priority rights. I didn't want to bring it here. I had a personal question for him because the MEPs told me they didn't have invitations, so I wanted to ask where the hiccup went, but I'm sure the President will explain that. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u96	Thank you for the floor. It's relatively new information to me, and I'm working with her right now. So at this point, what I can share, it's not an administrative oversight. I signed the invitations. The responsibility of the Chamber of Deputies is to invite all Members, Senators and Members of the Government. Just like we're inviting you to a meeting, we're not inviting you to the gallery after. The other persons are guests and the host is Prague Castle. And I don't have a guest list yet. I don't know who was invited and who wasn't. [[Resurrection in the right side of the hall.]] I'm telling you information. I will be glad if no one is shouting at me, or I would ask the President to give me some peace, if necessary. But that's the explanation I have at my disposal for the moment. It makes me uncomfortable that there are invitations on which I am signed, and I have to communicate with the castle protocol. But for the moment, I have information that the invitation of the Chamber of Deputies has been sent to all Members, senators, members of the government. Guests were invited by the host, which is the castle protocol. For now, it's all the information I have. I'll find out more. So just to explain and answer the question that came up here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u97	Thank you. Vice-President Fiala is in favour of this, and then Mr Kalousek again. We are among the points, i.e. we are having a debate, but, of course, all those who have priority rights have the opportunity to speak. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course, for understandable reasons, I do not care and certainly - or certainly not, but you probably know my comments on the systematic non-call of the Rector of Masaryk University at the Prague Castle at the celebrations of October 28. I also received the information that was heard here a few hours ago, even before it was published. I immediately turned not to the media and to the public, but to the Prime Minister of the Chamber of Deputies with a request for immediate redress, because I also informed him of a matter which he was not fully aware of, and that is that the invitations to the other Rectors went by his name, not by the name of the Prague Castle. [[18.20 hours]] I consider the situation to be serious and unsustainable in this form. It is simply not possible for the President of the Chamber of Deputies to invite other guests who perform public functions to the joint meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for all of us, and those invitations went in such a way that, in accordance with the President's decision, some people are not invited there. This is simply not something Prague Castle can determine. This is a matter that must be determined by the Chamber of Deputies. And we must insist that all public universities' rectors be invited regardless of what the President of the Republic thinks about them and their persons. So, Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, you will have my, our - I hope - all the support to remedy this situation over the next few hours, and all the public university rectors can take part in this important state action.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u99	Thank you. The next meeting apologizes to the Minister of Health, his apology has now been delivered, the Minister is leaving. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u100	I thank Prime Minister Vondráček for his answer, and I do not suspect him of hypocrisy in this case. I just want to tell him that we who have been in God's direction longer, we know that's not what he told us. If Mrs Němcová had priority rights, she could now tell you that she, as President of the Chamber of Deputies in 2013, controlled all the invitations - more than 700 of them - because the President of the Chamber of Deputies actually invites everyone, not the President of the Republic. Just as you invited the Rector of the University of Pardubice, so you decided not to invite, Mr. Chairman, the Rector of Masaryk University. That's your decision. I understand that it's Ovčáček to the fact that you've been here not even a year in this position. And I don't suspect you of hypocrisy. I simply want to tell you, as a member of this Chamber of Deputies, that the sovereign is the Chamber of Deputies when it comes to invitations. So maybe you can see if there's a few Russian or Chinese agents in those invitations you've already signed, and you can cancel. On the contrary, there are several important personalities in the public life of the Czech Republic that you should sign in those invitations you did not sign. In any case, I'm telling you again, it's a joint meeting of both chambers. It's not a Miloš Zeman event, Martin Nejedlý and Jiří Ovčáček. And we would like our chairman - because we have the responsibility - to organize this event so that none of us should be ashamed of the party and the guests invited. You have two days, Prime Minister. And you have our trust, and you have our support, that you can do it at least in the fact that all the Czech universities will be present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u101	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Vondráček. And they also report with priority rights to the chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u102	I'd be happy to share information with you and try to find out more. For the moment, I have information from the department here that this practice has been going on since the President's first election since 1989. So I'm picking up these pieces right now, so I'd like to ask you to calm the situation a little bit. There's still a chance of some explanation. After all, the president promised he'd be nice when he was elected. [[Fun in the hall.]] I'll call Castle. I'll keep you posted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u103	Well, thank you to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. [[Noise in the hall.]] Let me say, in order to calm the situation, that I have the priority rights of the chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club, the chairman of the Pirates Club, the chairman of the ODS Club, and at the same time, an apology has come from the Minister of Culture since 18.30. So, Minister, of course we're sorry. Mr. Jan Bartošek, Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u104	Thank you for the floor. Mr President Vondráček, through Mr President, I do not suspect you of any intention either. I believe that you are briefly in office and are familiar with the way things are going. And the President's inauguration is your first. But the information I have is that not only weren't all university rectors invited, but not all the generals were invited. I consider this highly disrespectful both to the Rectors and to the officers of the individual regions. [[The Chairman of the PSP Vondráček is discussing with Mrs Miroslava Němcová.]] Mr President, I am speaking to you, through Mr President. [[Noise in the hall.]] It is important that President Němcová has this experience and invites...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u105	I will ask the House for peace, Mr President, so that we can... I know we're between the points and there's no debate, but if you want to do something with each other, please be in the foyer. And let the chairman of the KDU-ČSL club finish. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u106	I'm just gonna ask you for a few minutes of your time, Mr. Chairman. It is really about the fact that I think that the Chamber of Deputies should be proud and confident. You said you'd call Castle. I don't see the slightest reason. It's a meeting of both chambers you're calling. And I believe that it is in your competence that you invite both the Rectors and all the captains, because I think it is unacceptable that, from the start of the new president's mandate, we continue to divide society into those who are with us and those who are not with us in the group. So I ask you to invite both all the Rectors and all the captains within the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u107	Otherwise, before I give the floor to Mr Michálek, I would like to thank the representatives of the appellants and thank the rapporteur, because we ended the first reading of the bill on direct elections, and when I finished that point, I did not thank them. Then I apologize to both the plaintiff and the rapporteur, so as not to force them to sit at the rapporteur's desk. [[Both the proposer and the rapporteur in paragraph 14 leave the rapporteur's table.]] But now, with priority rights, the chairman of the Pirate Club, Jakub Michálek. A colleague of Stanjure will be ready. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the President of the House politely, through the President, to do his utmost to avoid the selection of constitutional representatives who will be invited to the meeting. According to the laws in force, under Article 59, the promise shall be made at a joint meeting of the two chambers. Under Rule 37, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shall apply to it. And according to Section 56 other persons have the right to attend the meeting with the consent of the House. That's the law. So I'm going to ask that, as the House, who are responsible for who will attend this meeting, if it is such a will that we exclude some persons from this joint meeting so that we can approve this here by a resolution. I think that would be extremely disrespectful to the rectors and regional leaders. And for the pirate party, I ask you to deal with this matter with all seriousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u109	Thank you. The President of the ODS Club, with priority rights, and a colleague of Farský, also reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u110	I accept the challenge of calming the situation. Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, through the President, do not call anywhere. It's completely unnecessary. [[Laughter from the diaper.]] Don't explain anything. That's completely unnecessary. Work it out. The solution is very simple. Some of my previous speakers spoke of it. Invite everyone. It's settled. You don't have to explain. We still have time. You don't have to make any calls. Or maybe it's a legitimate suggestion, if we have a guest list or potential guests, and you want to rule some out because they're not Miloš Zeman's voters or they're critics of Miloš Zeman, so bring him here. We'll take the vote. I'm not Miloš Zeman's voter either. And I tried everything I could to keep him from being elected. I'm still going to the inauguration. So far, I'm invited. But I have to, because it's a House meeting. If it wasn't, God knows what would happen to our invitations. But don't really explain. Don't call. Figure it out. It's very simple. And if, as I've already heard, two chairs will be missing, because we won't be able to lend them to the Prague Castle Office, if there are two more directors, then I'll be standing, and we'll definitely find another one in our club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u111	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now President Farský, then again President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u112	I would definitely like to speak for the Mayors and Independents Club with the support of having those to whom it belongs participate in this ceremonial inauguration and not those who are favourites of President Zeman. And because, in order to become a private party, which the Chamber of Deputies is only supposed to add some kind of shine, I find it really undignified to all those who should be there. On October 8th, the President has already privatized himself to his own personal advantage, and many of us have the problem of going there to do a stafage at all, to make it feel as possible in his submission, if it is possible, with dignity, in this situation, if even from inauguration, which is the question of a joint meeting between the two chambers of Parliament, he began to have a private party, so we will consider whether such a party should be attended at all in the Castle. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u113	Thank you. President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u114	Thank you, I want to add to the recommendation, Mr President, by means of the President, that you do not really call anywhere, especially now, it is already 18.30, we elders know that after 16 o'clock it is no longer worth it, and that you simply decide, because it is your authority. And you have our support for that authority. And in addition to inviting all the captains and all the rectors in a balanced manner, which is certainly what we all want, as we are here in the Chamber of Deputies, so as to make sure that there is no unacceptable name on these invitations. I'm invited, too, and I'm going there, because it's a work obligation, a joint meeting of both chambers. But if I meet some Russian troll there, whose meaning is completely unrelated to this kind of event, then I'm gonna ask you again at the next meeting, how could you invite such a jerk? So I beg you very much to pay attention to these invitations in the next few hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u115	President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u116	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, through Mr President, I wish you to represent the proud and self-confident Chamber of Deputies, and in the same way that you will invite all the governors and rectors of universities, for example in the future, to open up human rights issues in negotiations with China and be able to touch on other topics, because you represent the Chamber of Deputies and this burden, this weight rests on your shoulders. But once again, it is important that we represent the proud and self-confident Chamber of Deputies, which is headed by you. And I believe you can do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-001-014.u117	I don't see any more applications with priority rights, so we'll proceed to the opening of the next item. It's an interrupted point.
