ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-007-031.u1	31. Proposal by Members Jan Hamáček, Lubomír Zaorálek, Kateřina Valachová, Jan Birk and others on the issue of the Constitutional Act on the National referendum /German press 111/ - first reading We discussed this House press on 17 April 2018 at the 12th meeting of the House, when we interrupted it by resolution 203 and adjourned until the end of the seminar on the national referendum. The seminar, as I said, took place 25. 4. The hearing was suspended before the appellant and the rapporteur were heard. So we're in a different situation than at point 23. I remind you that we received the Government's position as House Press 111/1. I ask that one of the appellants state that point. This is Mr. Veselý reporting, so I'll give him my word. Then I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Ferjenčík, to give his report on this press. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor as the plaintiff's representative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-007-031.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will report on our bill of referendum. Perhaps the easiest thing I could do is compare our proposal, the proposal of ČSSD Members with the other two proposals. We, as well as the SPD and the KSČM submitters, agree that the possibility of introducing a national referendum on national issues will be possible. We know that we have a referendum of municipal, regional, but nevertheless this referendum, although envisaged by the Constitution, is not yet regulated by us and we believe, like other colleagues, that we should give citizens the opportunity to comment on issues of national importance. However, this largely concludes the similarity with the other two proposals. Our proposal is much narrower, let's say more selective, and it is based on the clear idea that a national referendum should not be a matter that is replaced by representative democracy in a common way, like the other two proposals, but, on the contrary, it should be a matter where the issue of social importance, which is of great interest to voters and which is very fundamental, is decided. When it comes to individual differences, I'll put them on simple examples. The first question, perhaps the most famous or very discussed, is the question of international treaties, conventions, etc. In our proposal, we do not expect them to be part of a national referendum. If it had occurred to them, these are the contracts in particular under Article 10a of the Constitution, so a special ad hoc law would have been declared, as was the case with the Act of Accession to the European Union, so we do not expect these things to be assessed or to be part of the law. Then there's the stuff that's delivered, there's a resemblance to the others. Another very fundamental difference, or the most fundamental difference, is the question of who can propose a national referendum. Unlike the other two laws, we assume that it will only be a national petition, which means that it will only be an initiative. In our case, we propose that it be 850 thousand citizens. It's not some number sucked out of a finger, it's to make it 10 percent of the electorate, which means it's already a really big social demand. Colleagues from the SPD propose that it be 100,000 voters under the initiative, as well as the KSČM, plus the SPD adds the possibility of announcing a referendum by the government and the KSČM by a group of Members and Senators. That's actually it. Another fundamental issue of social importance is reflected in when the referendum is binding. In the case of the other two proposals, it is binding when the majority of the voters present vote in favour of the question, that is, those who come to the referendum. In our case, it is bound by the fact that the majority of all voters must vote above half the majority of voters who have the right to vote in our country. I guess that's the big difference. Of course, we have also taken a positive view of the government, which has expressed a positive view of our bill, even if it has some comments or suggestions for adjustments. We accept these to a large extent and are ready to discuss the fact that we will work them into the bill. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-007-031.u3	Thank you, Mr Veselý. I will now ask the rapporteur to say his intelligence report. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-007-031.u4	Thank you for the floor. We have a total of three drafts of the referendum law, one of the SPD workshop, one of the ČSSD workshop, one of the KSČM workshop. The ČSSD proposal, which we are talking about now, can be said to work best with the possible risks of referendums, which minimizes them most. On the other hand, it is very excessive to limit the possibility of a referendum at all and, above all, to ensure that the referendum is binding. I think it is wise to be careful when adopting the referendum law, to take risks into account and implement it gradually, however, the solution where the ČSSD proposes 800 thousand signatures, which must be collected in order for the referendum to be declared, is simply so extreme that it does not seem realistic to me that there will ever be a referendum under that law in the Czech Republic. The second is the 50 per cent of all eligible voters who have to vote in favour of one option to make it binding. This is a treaty which neither the constitutional majority of Members in this House nor in the Senate have received, which has the possibility to change the Constitution. The border is so extremely set that it will not be possible to hold a referendum under that law that would really be binding. Indeed, even those laws or referendums held in other countries are never achieved. For myself, I think it is wise to let the proposal go, but if these two key conditions are not adjusted in particular so that they are feasible, the law will be completely ineffective.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-007-031.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I note the factual remark made by Mrs Helena Válková. Given that we are not having a debate, we are going to hold it after all three opening words, so I am counting on it, Madame, that we are likely to have a response to some speeches, either to the opening word or to the rapporteur's word. I am now interrupting point 31 again. Initiating point
