ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended /house print 120/ - second reading The second reading was suspended on Thursday 24. 5. and I would invite Jaroslava Němcová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Jan Bauer, to the table of rapporteurs for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Is the MP here? [[The appointed one comes and wonders why the list of entries to the debate does not shine on the board.]] I know we interrupted last night. And it's open. Thank you. [[There's an requested list on the board.]] In that case, we will continue the debate and the first is therefore Mr Jan Bauer's enrollment into the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador. I'm gonna ask for some peace in the room. There's a higher level of noise. I ask Members to take their seats to end the discussions so that we can continue to remain reasonably calm. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u2	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, we interrupted this point last night, and, if I remember correctly, we hung up together. Government amendment of this law concerns 10,5 million citizens of the Czech Republic, respectively. all citizens of the Czech Republic, and we found it extremely rude yesterday evening, and I have to say, unfortunately, that even today I find it extremely rude that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance do not participate in the discussion of this government amendment of the law. [[That's right. Yesterday after noon.]] I think this is a great pity, because this government amendment is not only about the 2.4 million people who receive old-age pensions and who are to raise pensions, but it is also about the millions of active workers who - and we only have an ongoing system - finance the whole ongoing system. And undoubtedly, it is also about those who are not yet profitablely involved in the system, because they too will undoubtedly be interested in whether the unsustainable ongoing system will change in any way. So for this reason - and among other things, these measures have a billion-dollar impact on the expenditure side of the state budget. That is why I think it is a big mistake that the Prime Minister is not here, and it is a big mistake that he is not here to discuss the Minister of Finance. I think the important things here, perhaps from the mouth of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, what the amendment is actually about, were heard last night. I would just like to summarize that, in short, the government proposal for this amendment concerns two measures. The first measure means increasing the basic salary from nine current to ten percent of the future average wage. For your information, this measure will mean approximately 12 billion to the state budget's spending page. Crowns. And the second measure, which was also discussed and presented here yesterday, means that a thousand-coron pension will be raised with retroactive effect for those pensioners or pensioners who receive a pension if their age reaches 85 and above. For your information, this measure means approximately 2.2 billion to the state budget's spending page. Crowns. Here I might just want to ask - I don't know if the economists at the Department of Labour have it well calculated, but just the maths and maths are relentless, it's according to the statistical office, the number of seniors, the social groups involved, in this case it's about 200,000 people, when you multiply it by a thousand and multiply it by 12 months, so I get 2.4 billion. But I don't think it's a deliberate mistake. It's more about how this number, how many old people 85 or more are involved, I don't think we're completely accurate. A lot has been discussed here in the past and during the discussion on the Social Policy Committee, whether this government bill reduces or increases merit. I would like to confirm clearly and say that the mathematics is relentless, that this proposal, or the amendment to the Government Act, clearly reduces merit. It was also said on the committee that this is from the current 78 per cent to the future 76 per cent. And here, on this occasion, I draw attention to the position of the Constitutional Court, which has clearly confirmed that the principle of merit cannot be suppressed in the long term, and that discussion has probably been on the committee, and it is, if the two percent, which is reduced by merit, is some fundamental suppression of the principle of merit, which, according to the Constitutional Court, is inadmissible. As part of my speech, I would like to touch on the two amendments that I am proposing through the Civic Democratic Party MEP's club. This is House Document No 808 and House Document No 818. I will then sign up for them in the context of a detailed debate. I would just like to inform you briefly, although you have the House press at your disposal, including the explanatory note, that it is in § 67 letter. (a), according to our proposal, the percentage of the pension paid increases by CZK 1 000 per month from the date on which 20 years have elapsed since the first instalment of the pension paid to the consumer. This is House Document No 808. And our second amendment means that the percentage of the pension paid is increased by CZK 1,000 a month from the date on which 25 years have elapsed since the first instalment of the pension paid to the consumer. Just for your comparison, the government's bill of pensioners over 85 years of age counts on a group of approximately 200 000 people. And the impact on the state budget is going to be about 2.2, or as we figured out, 2.4 billion. Crowns. Our proposals represent a group of approximately 600 thousand in the case of 20 years. persons and costs in the level of 6.5 billion. Crowns. The second proposal, which covers 25 years of retirement, will cover 300 thousand. persons and costs approximately 3.7 billion. Crowns. What are the reasons for this? We have never questioned in the long run that if the Czech economy works, even seniors or old-age pensioners have the right to increase their pensions, that is clear. Therefore, in this case, we do not question the first measure, i.e. increase in the base area from 9 to 10 per cent. After all, during the last parliamentary term, the Civil Democratic Party has proposed similar resolutions, which is why our two amendments aim at the second alternative measure with which the government comes. If you look at the explanatory report on why this measure is actually increasing pensions by a thousand-caloron in an old-age pensioner over 85 years of age, why it is actually being introduced, I have not quite heard the logical argument either yesterday or at the meeting of the Social Policy Committee. The main reason is that costs for Czech pensioners are increasing, whether it concerns energy or rent. And the second reason I've read from the explanatory memorandum is the fact that pensioners over 85 years of age have a very reduced ability to make extra money. In my opinion, however, there is no big difference between a senior aged 84, 83 or 77. The cost of living increases exactly the same for the elderly, and I also do not think that seniors aged 75 or 78 or 80 have slightly more favourable conditions on the labour market to earn money. For this reason, we are coming up with these two amendments, which, in our view, will clearly better cover the social group of people who clearly deserve to increase their pensions. Among other things - in conclusion, I think - this will be about those seniors who entered and, above all, formed a significant part of their pensions during the communist era, where they could not undoubtedly earn large pensions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u3	Thank you, too. I will now ask Mrs Vrecionová to prepare Mr Kaňkovský. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u4	Thank you. Good morning, Madam Secretary, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. I would like to start by saying that I certainly welcome other fellow Members from the Civil Democratic Party, the fact that we are here on this proposal, which should contribute to pensioners, especially at this time of economic growth, is, of course, correct. On the other hand, allow me a great sigh at how unsystemically we are receiving this proposal here. We discussed this proposal on the Social Committee, and otherwise I tried to find out why this age group is being added, why those of 85, why the 500 crowns, why the 1,000 crowns, why it is not 2,000, why it is not 3,000. I have to say, I didn't actually find any keys anywhere. At first glance, it really only seems to make it look good, to have as little impact as possible on the state budget. Therefore, I would very, very much like to ask you to, I do not want to speak here in detail about the amendments tabled by colleague Bauer, he described them in detail. And I also believe that they would bring a small system into this non-systemic solution if you supported them. I will also not forgive myself for mentioning what we have also discussed on the Social Committee, where we are perhaps more or less on colleagues from social democracy who insist on the long term that an ongoing system is sufficient, that no pension reform is needed, so we have addressed this. And I have to mention that, and I think you all remember here four years ago, when the then government coalition actually abolished the second pillar that was introduced, and here and then, the Finance Minister and many others of you were thundering and promising how soon you would come up with reform. Nothing happened at all. No reform, which, and so we talked on the Social Committee, is absolutely necessary and necessary, so nothing really happened. Therefore, I beg you to support the resolution adopted by the Social Committee, too, and I would be very happy if you not only support the ODS amendments, but when we finally start talking very seriously about pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u5	Thank you, too. I'll point out that someone left their glasses at the counter. I would also like to remind you that Mr Farhan has the position of rapporteur at this reading for the Committee on Budgets. We will now move forward, and I am asking Mr Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u6	Good morning, Madam Secretary, honourable Members of the Government, Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I'm going to follow up on my previous speakers, and I'm going to say what's already been said here, and what I said here yesterday. I am also very sorry that for such an important amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, which has a significant impact on the lives of all citizens of this Republic, but also has a major impact on the state budget, the Prime Minister of this Government is not present and neither is the Minister of Finance. I know the Minister of Finance is on a long-term foreign trip, but I simply cannot forgive this complaint and this sigh. I have already declared here at first reading that the KDU-ČSL MP is ready to support the government amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. KDU-ČSL has long declared that our seniors, who definitely deserve higher pensions, must have a clear share in the good economic condition of the Czech Republic. But I will remind you, too, and it has already been said here that we are disappointed that the government has chosen only parametric pension changes and has resigned to solving at least some of the problems that our pension system has. I'd probably repeat myself here, virtually. I would repeat the criticisms made by colleague Bauer, colleague Markéta Pekarová Adamová, and colleague Vrecionová today. It is clear to me, too, that pension reform cannot be prepared in a short time, but when I pass Mr. Prime Minister's billboards, which is already being praised for adding at least 11 grand a year to seniors, it is obvious that not an essential objective of this government bill is a permanent election campaign. Just a little to lighten up: I would expect the creativity of a similar billboard to be greater, for example, that it will announce that the Prime Minister has arranged for seniors a 13th pension. But that was to lighten up. I find it much less funny the fact that, while two years ago, the then Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš tried very hard to prevent raising pensions, and only under pressure from the coalition partners KDU-ČSL and ČSSD nodded to the then increase in pensions, while now he took pension increases as the main draw on citizens 65+. Yes, it's obvious. In the coalition government for the then Minister of Finance, it was not convenient to fight for an increase in pensions for pensioners. And although the Prime Minister is now still saying how much he cares about the elderly, that was not the case at the time. And it wasn't that long ago, it was two years ago. As Prime Minister in the minority government, he is going a different way in demise. Now he promises anything, just make it look good on the billboards. But back to the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. Again, the increase in pensions is the right step, KDU-ČSL clearly supports it, but the way and circumstances under which the current government is implementing it, then no longer, and again this justification has already been made here several times yesterday and today. So, with a bit of sarcasm, we are all looking forward to the pension reform that the government promises in a demise in the programming statement for the next, i.e. the government is a little out of sight. And now, once again, back to the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, which we have on the table today. The KDU-ČSL club has amended several amendments to this amendment. Most of them have already been introduced yesterday by colleague Golasowská. In these amendments, we are trying to remove some discriminatory provisions concerning mothers' women, to further level up some of the problems of widow's pensions, and to propose other changes. In the detailed debate on the amendments mentioned yesterday by my colleague Golasowská, I will read three more amendments. One relates to a mechanism of graduated reduction of retirement age among women who are now beaten for sometimes half of their active life in raising children. We consider it right to seek mechanisms to at least alleviate some of the injustices experienced by women in pension schemes. The other two amendments remove the nonsenses, which is accompanied by the Czech pension system, and thus the minimum period of pension insurance, which is 35 years in 2018 in the Czech Republic. This period is rare within the EU and outside the Member States, for a longer period of 40 years, only Bulgaria. Pension schemes in different European countries are different, so we certainly cannot set a minimum period of pension insurance in our country for example for 5 years, as is the case in Germany. But the current limit of 35 is very insensitive and discriminates against citizens who have honestly contributed a substantial part of their lives to the pension system, and sometimes a relatively significant amount, and then often, for serious reasons, they can no longer contribute to the pension system. That is why we believe that the minimum period of pension insurance needs to be reduced and at least approaching the average time in the European States. There will certainly be a discussion on this on the Committee on Social Policy and on the Committee on Budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I will be happy to have a substantive discussion, which will certainly be difficult in both committees and then certainly at plenary at third reading. I firmly believe that in the third reading, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister will comment on this bill as well as on the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u7	I, too, thank you and now please Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u8	Thank you for the floor. I think we all agree that this amendment to the Pension Insurance Act is no reform in terms of changing the system. It is a measure designed to guarantee that the economic prosperity that we have experienced in recent years will also benefit the seniors, especially the low-income ones. Our club does not object to this and, in principle, agrees with this proposal. However, we consider it unfortunate that the government is intensively concerned with short-term problems, which means raising pensions in the term of the parliamentary term, but does not address the system from its long-term sustainability. According to the analyses that we have received, the pension system will go into deficit several percent of the Czech Republic's GDP over the next decade and the method of financing that is set up today, which means primarily from labor taxation, is simply not sustainable. We have the data, we got it in the background materials, but the government doesn't reflect it in any way. We will therefore read the accompanying resolution on this issue, and I will read it in a detailed debate that will address this issue, and I am asking for its support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u9	Thank you. This was the last speaker entered in the general debate. I'll see if I can get anyone else from the O.R. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I ask for the final words on the general debate, if there is any interest. Madam Secretary, rapporteur? Doesn't look like it. In that case, the proposal to return the guarantee committee has not been submitted and I am initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I have five Members of Parliament and Members on the floor. Mrs Pekarová is the first to be logged in. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u10	Thank you for the floor. I will refer with justification to my speech yesterday, which, I think, was detailed in both amendments, and now I am merely applying to the amendments which are recorded in the system under numbers 840 and 841.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u11	Thank you. Now, please, Mrs Golasowská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apply to five amendments, which I made a closer comment yesterday in the general debate. The first four relate to widow's pensions and the last pension for moms. So the first proposal is deposited under the number of House document 772 and relates to the continuance of disability and widow's pension. The second amendment is under number 773 and it is an extension of one year's pension to two years. The next proposal is under number 774 and concerns the mitigation of the conditions for the required period of insurance. The next proposal is under number 775. This is an increase in the percentage of the calculation from 50 to 60 per cent. And the last amendment is under number 816 and concerns the contribution of 500 crowns to each mother for a raised child to her pension. I would just like to say briefly what I forgot yesterday that, in essence, as regards widow's pensions, we still have to bear in mind that if someone's husband, wife, dies, so apart from the fact that he's dealing with a lot of things that I mentioned yesterday about rent, loans, etc., so the problem of the survivors is also funerals, when we know that the amounts for the purchase of the funeral are not small today, they go into tens of thousands and the contribution from state social support, so-called. funerals are provided only if a minor child or legal representative of a minor child dies, amounting to CZK 5,000. I therefore ask very much then for the support of these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u13	Well, thank you, too. And now I have here with Mr Bauer's point of fact, but I believe that this is an application for debate. Okay, so I'll ask you later. Now, Mr Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u14	Good morning again. As I have already announced in the general debate, I would like to sign up for three amendments, which are in the system recorded under the numbers of the Houses of Documents 813, 814 and 815. I have already announced them here in the general debate, so only very briefly. The number 813 - here is a graduated reduction in the retirement age of women mothers. And the following two, House documents 814 and 815, are amendments that alternatively reduce the minimum length of pension insurance. For House document 814 it is a reduction from 35 years to 30 years and for House document number 815 it is a reduction of the minimum length of pension insurance from 35 years to 25 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u15	Thank you, too. I have a note here. Mr Petr Gazdík apologizes to us today from 11 o'clock to the end of the negotiations for health reasons. And I have Mr. Feri here now, but I have information that he's downloading his application, so I'm going to withdraw it. And now, please, Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u16	Thank you for the floor. As I have announced, I will read the accompanying resolution. Proposal for an accompanying resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the Government Bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, print 120. Chamber of Deputies (a) points out to the Government that the current financing of a pension scheme based primarily on labour taxation is long-term unsustainable; (b) asks the Government to look for a solution to this situation for the future and until 31. 12. 2019 has introduced the Chamber of Deputies to the steps it has taken on this matter. I have already justified this in the general debate. I don't think it needs any more comment, and I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u17	Thank you, too. Please refer the motion for a resolution to the rapporteur. We've exhausted the applications, and I have Mr. Bauer here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u18	Mr Vice-President, on a formal basis, in order to comply with the Rules of Procedure, I hereby sign up to House Document No 818 and No 818 808 including the explanatory note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-003-021.u19	Thank you, too. Some other ODS proposals have yet to be announced in the debate, but that was it, I suppose. So if no one else is reporting for a detailed debate from the point of view, I don't see anybody, then I'm done with the detailed debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words, Madam Secretary... There is no interest in the final words, nor in the rapporteurs. Well, in that case, let's move on. No proposals have been made to return the guarantee committee to shorten the time limits or not to address the guarantee committee, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. I thank both the rapporteurs and the appellant and move forward. This is point 22. I'll ask the rapporteur to... I'd like to ask the rapporteur to release the next table. Thank you. I repeat, I'm opening a point.
