ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-010-036.u1	36. Report on the Environment of the Czech Republic 2016 /house print 16/ - first reading The material will be presented by Prime Minister and Minister of the Environment, Mr Richard Brabec. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-010-036.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I have taken such a short opening word, so I will not keep you long. I am particularly pleased that in this record-breaking time the report on the environment of the Czech Republic for 2016 came to the programme in contrast to the previous report and that it was discussed and also approved unanimously in the Committee on the Environment. Let me really do this briefly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-010-036.u3	Colleagues and colleagues, I beg you to take your seats and listen to the Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-010-036.u4	Note that I am not shouting, I will leave it to Mr President and I believe in your natural interest in environmental matters. And I hope you don't disappoint me. This report is, like every year, an important source of information on the state and development of the environment in the Czech Republic, including international comparisons. The proposed set of indicators contained in this report is not static, but we continuously adapt it to the needs of the current state environmental policy as well as environmental problems and, last but not least, the availability of the underlying data sets. Each thematic whole of the report, unlike previous years of processing, is given short information pointing to the relevance of the topic and also evaluating the possible impact of the status and development of the topic on human health and ecosystems. On the basis of the amendment of Act No. 123/1998 Sb., on the right to information on the environment, annual environmental reports on individual regions are also processed as a complement to the report on the environment of the Czech Republic, which then deal more closely with the characteristics of the environment in the regions. Each regional report for 2016 contains a total of eight thematic units and I think it is interesting information for those of you who are interested in some more specific environmental element within their electoral regions. A set of 14 regional reports is supplemented by a summary report on the environment, which contains a comparison of the state across individual regions. Now let me really just make a quick comment on the results. The evolution of the environment last year, sorry, actually for the previous year, was influenced by economic growth. The economy of the Czech Republic is characterised, as we know, by a higher share of industry. We are Europe's most industrialised countries with regard to the share of industry in GDP, which, of course, also has a long-term impact on the development of direct environmental burdens. But a positive finding is a sustained decline in the energy and material intensity of the economy, and thus less pollution is produced to create an economic performance unit than it was in the past. We can say that despite the growth of the economy and also the standard of living in 2016, the state of the environment remained stable. Another important factor affecting the environment is the development of hydrometeorological conditions, the regime of which is more volatile in relation to climate change, with more frequent occurrence of hydrometeorological phenomena. And here it should be recalled that 2016 was among the warmest years in measurements since 1960. It was the eighth warmest year and also, although it was a year of collision normal, so the overall development of the rainfall of course during that period 2014, 2015, 2016 was cumulatively subnormal, so this year was influenced by drought. Air quality stagnating. From the point of view of the impact on human health, air quality was not particularly satisfactory in areas where more pollution sources are combined, such as transport, domestic local heating, industrial production and the transfer of pollution from abroad, which, as we well know, is mainly the Ostrava region. As I said before, the water supply has been affected by drought, but water supply has not been significantly disrupted. The quality of bathing waters is constantly improving, as in previous years, but the quality of water in streams varies, of course, in connection with drought. The area of arable land decreased in 2016 in favour of permanent grasslands, which is good from the point of view of anti-erosion protection, but the total area of the agricultural soil fund in the Czech Republic has fallen in the long term mainly in favour of the built-up areas, even after, as many of you remember, a change in the law on the protection of the agricultural soil fund, which aims at more complex land release, or the authorisation of land set-aside from the agricultural soil fund, took place in 2015. The total area of forest land increased in 2016, which is definitely good news, and in addition the species composition of forest forests is closer to the trend, the natural structure of forests, the reduction of the share of coniferous forests and, on the contrary, increasing the share of deciduous forests. Forests, however, are still threatened mainly by cloven-hoofed and black animals. Despite the increase in 2016, as I said, industrial production, electricity production and final energy consumption have been declining in the long term. In 2016 there was a decline in waste production and the principles of the circular economy with emphasis on material use are applied as part of their management. Of course, financing of individual environmental components, financial support, is a key prerequisite for improving the situation. We know that the key resource is the Operational Programme Environment and, in part, national funds. In conclusion, my fellow Members, I would like to take my personal view not only of course of 2016 but of the current situation and of future developments, because this clearly follows from the report in 2016. The biggest environmental problem in the Czech Republic is and undoubtedly will be the water management area, i.e. impacts, climate change and drought impacts in the coming years. With regard to the area of air, we can see in a number of areas geographically, perhaps in addition to Ostrava, more marked improvements and I believe that the combination of boiler subsidies that should already work this season, or next season, should work fully. You know we have a goal to replace a quarter of the most polluting domestic boilers by 2019, so it will have a significant impact on improving air quality. What is currently probably the biggest blockage of better and faster improvement of air quality is certainly car transport. And let's say here that we can't do without substantially faster completion of infrastructure structures, especially city bypasses. [[10.20 hours]] As far as the quality and size of the forest are concerned, I must point out that at present, and I fear that this will be one of the most important environmental topics this year, we have been facing the greatest cruststorm since Marie Terezie. And it is no longer a question of the debate we have had in recent years about national parks, but it is a huge area in Moravia, Central and North Moravia, Eastern Bohemia, South Bohemia and, of course, the impact of the high proportion of spruce monocultures we have in the Czech Republic, and the impact of climate change, which, of course, dramatically weakens mainly coniferous forests. There are even scorpions who claim - and I fear they may be right, because many of them are renowned scientists - that within 30 years there will not be a single spruce in altitudes below 800 meters. This, of course, is catastrophic at first sight. However, there are indications that we need to be able to adapt to major climate change, which will undoubtedly be the element that will have the most dramatic impact on the quality of the environment in the Czech Republic in the coming years. So let's conclude. In the 2016 report, we see a number of improving factors despite ongoing economic developments, favourable economic developments, and economic growth. And to see some revolutionary development in the field of air quality, I believe that this will contribute to the really fundamentally completed project of boiler subsidies and in the future the project of electromobility. And a significant reduction in fossil fuels in car transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-010-036.u5	Thank you, Minister. The resolution of the Committee on the Environment was delivered as press 16/1 and I ask the rapporteur of the Committee of Mr Jan zahradník to inform us about the committee's deliberations and also to present a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-010-036.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on the Environment of the Czech Republic addressed the 2016 Environmental Report at its third meeting on 11 January 2018 and adopted the following resolution: "After the introductory words of Deputy Minister of the Environment . Vladislav Smrž, Mr Jan Zahradník's report and after the debate, the Committee on the Environment first recommends the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to take note of the report on the environment of the Czech Republic 2016, House Press 16. Secondly, it instructs the Committee's rapporteur to familiarise the Chamber of Deputies with this resolution. Thirdly, it requires the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies." Mr Vice-President, I would still like to introduce the House to two subjects which the Committee has dealt with, but which, in agreement both within the Committee and with Deputy Minister Smrž, has not been incorporated into the motion for a resolution. In fact, the first issue is based on a time series of reporting given by the law on the right to provide information on the environment every year. The report presented by the Minister here is based on high-quality data and also responds to my opinion of a quality system of indicators. So it is very detailed, its range is about 300 to 350 pages, as you probably, those of you who have viewed it could get acquainted. In addition, since 2015, its amendment has been made up of environmental reports in individual regions issued in electronic form. Based on the discussion proposed by Mr. Deputy Smrž, some of these indicators seem to be so detailed or complex that the one-year interval is, in their view, short enough to make changes in the complex system of environment, nature and even the part of the globe where our Republic is recorded. The Deputy Minister suggested whether it would not be appropriate for the report to be published in such a detailed form every four years in order to capture certain differences in those indicators, in their values, and, if necessary, to respond to them. We considered on the committee that this would mean that, in fact, during the parliamentary term, the Member would only record the report once. This, given that this is a very important document, seemed to us little, and so we reached some compromise that the report in that detailed form would be published once every two years and in the meantime, in that year in between, would be presented, say, a more concise report, perhaps responding to some things that are significant in that year, in order to make good the law 123, which speaks of the right to information about the environment. We did not deliberately put this in the resolution because we want this to be discussed, but to consider whether none of us have any fundamental comment on this. If so, perhaps it is time not to bring it here, in some way not to threaten the approval of the resolution, but to enter into discussion with the committee. I offer myself as rapporteur, as the recipient of any objections to this, and at some other committee meeting we could possibly respond to those objections. The second thing that we discussed with the Deputy Minister and the representatives of the Ministry and the representatives of CENIA, who are the processor of the report, is the new circumstance that appeared in the national parks. By approving the amendment of Law 114 on the conservation of nature and landscape, there is actually a new regime for the management or management of national parks. Specifically, in the preamble to our law, there is a condition that, in fact, the vast majority of the territory of the national park must be left under the law without intervention. In our view - and the committee has adopted, say, an identical position - it would be good if we were able to react in any way to any changes in the state of the environment in national parks due to these changes in the Nature and Landscape Act. And so, once again, in the discussion with the Deputy Minister of the Environment, it was said that the Ministry should consider including another, new chapter in the traditional structure of the report on the environment, which would focus on assessing the state of the environment, nature in our four national parks. In our view, this chapter could be included in the larger report, presented every two years, with the fact that if something should happen that deserves increased attention, it could also be mentioned in the report presented in the meantime. So these are two things that I wanted to introduce to you and which committee actually discussed at its meeting, which are not the subject of a motion for a resolution. This concludes my report, but I wanted to sign up later with some other comments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-010-036.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I'll read Mr. Stropnický apology from 10:00 to 12:00. Mrs Pastuchová from 14.30 to the end of the day. And Mrs Levová, perhaps for a whole day for work reasons. I'm opening a debate, so far the only one registered... Mr Okleštěk, really? It has not yet been discussed, virtually. it has not even begun, so since the factual response to the debate has been made, if you will allow me to let Mr Zahradník speak, and then you have the opportunity to do so. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-010-036.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I comment on the report on the state of the environment every year, I will do so today. In fact, the Minister has, in his speech, passed points similar to mine, and I would just like to make a very brief statement on them. I am glad, first of all, that environmental reports have taken place here in the regions. Pirate colleagues already have a comment on the report from the Moravian-Silesian Region on the committee. I am glad that they are engaged in this report and that the reports on the regions serve us as Members or then, of course, self-government in the regions. The Minister mentioned the basic information, the basic message: despite the growth of the economy, the state of the environment remains stable. It is probably necessary to mention this because it is such a paradigm, a custom, that simply when GDP increases, so that the environment gets worse, which, for God's sake, does not occur in our case. The climate system is a great topic of our debates and a great topic and media, and perhaps even a debate among citizens. We're tracking a long-term rise in average temperature. Last year was a very warm year. This was devoted to the media very intensively. People could get the impression that that year was simply the peak of some warming and that nothing could be worse, but the minister rightly pointed out that it was the eighth warmest year since 1960, which is the foreseeable time. So many of us were already in the world at that time and were seven warmer years in this rather climateologically short time. As far as air is concerned, it should be noted here that the emission limits are obviously exceeded, and if this happens, they are the subject of discussions and comments. The average concentration of solids is exceeded to 1,4 per cent of the territory with 7.3 per cent of the population, but the annual emission limits for benzo (a) pyrene, the famous pollutant, have been exceeded to 25.9 per cent of the territory with 55,7 per cent of the population, which is, of course, taken into account. It is worth recalling here, and the Minister mentioned car transport as an important source of pollution, our committee - I am a member of one more committee, the Committee on European Affairs, where next week we will discuss the first part of the net mobility package coming from the European Commission to us, which sets itself as its huge fundamental objective for the EU to be at the forefront of the fight against increasing global temperature. There is, of course, the main theme of electromobility, cars powered by fuels other than diesel or petrol - CNG, LNG, etc. The limits for internal combustion engines are designed to tighten significantly by 30 per cent. In the period between 2021 and 2030, the emission limits for passenger cars have to go down, they will be stricter. Once again, we will put great obstacles to ourselves. We know what this leads to. So this happened with diesel engines and the dieselgate affair then showed us what it could do in the world economy. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Water management. Here I have to say, it's positive that the sewer system is connected to an ever larger and larger population -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-010-036.u9	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Colleagues, colleagues, please calm down! Calm down, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-010-036.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, for your intervention, but somehow I'm used to this. I would remind you that the report also mentions in the topic of conservation of nature and landscape that a new protected landscape area of Brdy was announced after we canceled the military retreat on the territory there. So I personally recall that NATURA 2000 comprises more than 14 percent of the territory of our Republic. Yes, the woods. The minister mentioned massive calamity. So we have a bark grower here, his kindergarten in Sumava. We made this ourselves by law 114 and by other bad laws and procedures. Waste. Still, we're still dumping 45 percent. The Minister mentioned the topic of the fight against drought, I mention the topic of the waste law. The next and our period must be marked by the new Waste Act. Ladies and gentlemen, I have recommended the ODS Club to acknowledge the report. I therefore join my report as rapporteur and I recommend that you take note. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-010-036.u11	Thank you. Mr Okleštěk has the floor now with a point of fact, or, if he wishes a proper application, he may have the right one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-010-036.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Members of the Government, colleagues, I wanted to thank the rapporteur and the Minister from this point on behalf of the reports presented and to support the idea of issuing a report on the state of the environment once every two years in its full form and in its continuous form once a year, because changes in the environment do not take place year-on-year, and for that reason I think it has an absolute ratio, and I wanted to support it from this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-010-036.u13	Thank you, too. This is as far as I can see anyone in the debate, so I am ending the debate. I will ask the rapporteur if he would be kind enough to present a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-010-036.u14	Yes, Mr Vice-President, one more time. The Committee on the Environment, firstly, recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies take note of the report on the environment. The resolution is therefore: The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Report on the Environment for 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-010-036.u15	Yes, thank you. There is no other motion for a resolution, so - I will ring the bell - we will vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with the motion for a resolution, as presented by the rapporteur. Who's against it? It's vote 81, registered 139, for 123, against no one. The motion has been accepted, and I am ending this point. Let's continue with the point.
