ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-010-057.u1	57. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Australia, on the other hand /German press 75/ - Second reading I ask that the Prime Minister, who represents the Minister of Foreign Affairs, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-010-057.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, and other attractive destinations after Japan. Allow me, therefore, to present for discussion the Framework Agreement between the EU and its Member States, on the one hand, and Australia, on the other. Given the strong trade and the expansion of political and security cooperation, the EU and Australia have concluded that a high-quality legal framework, preferably a broad bilateral political agreement, needs to be given to relations. It is therefore not a free trade agreement, so called. FTA, she's gonna start negotiating with Australia this year. The Agreement identifies the following areas as the main themes of cooperation: foreign and security policy, the fight against terrorism, the application of international law in cyberspace, global development and humanitarian aid, economic cooperation and trade, justice, human rights and security, research, innovation, energy, transport and more. The enhanced dialogue is intended primarily to take place through consultations and visits at the level of the leaders of both units, particularly at the level of foreign ministers. Contacts between the Australian Parliament and the European Parliament are also to be strengthened. The content of the agreement is in accordance with constitutional order and other parts of the Czech legal order, with obligations arising from membership of the Czech Republic in the EU, with commitments taken over under other valid treaties and with generally binding principles of international law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-010-057.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I ask the rapporteur of the foreign committee, Mr Peksa, to justify the resolution of the committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-010-057.u4	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Foreign Committee of the 11th meeting of 25 April 2018 on the Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic will agree to ratify the rámcový Agreement between the EU and its Member States on the one hand and Australia on the other. After the justification of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs . Martin Tlapa, MBA, and Mr Mikuláš Peksa's report and the Foreign Committee's debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: Specifically - The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic gives consent to ratification of the Framework Agreement between the EU and its Member States, on the one hand, and Australia, on the other; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report at the Chamber of Deputies meeting on the results of this government proposal at a meeting of the Foreign Committee - which I have just done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-010-057.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. Mr Luzar is entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-010-057.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words about this agreement, which will put me at the end of my speech to propose a solution which I consider important in this matter. First of all, I want to say that here, in the introductory words, it was said that this was a framework agreement, and this really trade agreement will only be concluded in the following period. If this agreement were not a paragraph of economic cooperation and trade, I would also agree that this is a security matter rather than a business matter. Unfortunately, with that point of economic cooperation and trade there, I get the impression that I need to introduce you to the problems that I see in this matter. These problems are related to what took place on the premises of this House in the last parliamentary term at its conclusion, and these are problems associated with so much rejuvenated lithium and the problem of lithium mining, which is closely linked to an international treaty called the Agreement between the Czech and Slovak Federal Republics and Australia on mutual support and protection of investment. This contract was concluded on 29 July 1991. [[Search in the background]] I'm alerting you to 1991. So it's a very early year after 1989. It's been shut down in Cambera, and it's still valid. This contract was referred to a famous memorandum which was concluded by the Czech Republic with an Australian company that received a licence or was to receive a licence for lithium mining. We were told that this memorandum was non-binding, that it was actually legally null and void, as government officials tried to tell us about this after the problems that caused the statement that such a memorandum was being concluded. Yet in the agreement or in the memorandum that was unilaterally terminated on our part, if I may call it that, the new Minister of Industry and Trade, yet the Australian party, who is a partner here in this agreement, keeps the contract that has been concluded or the memorandum that has been concluded, in silence. In the agreement on mutual support and protection of investments just by being concluded in 1991, at the time of the euphoria of the Czech Republic, which welcomed extensive changes that came in the geopolitical distribution of the world, and tried to attract investors and attract that great foreign trade to us in the Czech Republic, so it is written in style simply - everyone come to us, you have all the advantages here, we will provide you with all the protection to the maximum possible extent, and therefore from this point of view it is strongly unbalanced for me. In other words, it is written in favour of the Czech Republic from the point of view of investment protection, from the perspective of protection of the interests of the Czech Republic. And as it was shown in the future, often this protection would be very necessary, because those investors who came to us from abroad did not always have intentions, say, suitable for the interests of a Czech citizen, but rather dealt with the interests of their own investors and their own citizens and left the interests of the Czech Republic and Czech citizens in second place. I want to introduce you to some of the paragraphs or points of the 1991 original agreement, so that you can see the consequences of what I want to conclude. This Agreement shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5 writes: Business rights and any other rights required to carry out economic activities and which have economic value lent on the basis of a law or contract, including the right to deal with agriculture, forestry, fish farming and other animal production, seek, exploit and exploit natural resources and produce, exploit and sell products. Here I want to draw attention to the passage - to seek out and exploit natural resources. There's talk of a word to search. It's not just the mining they're referring to, that our laws actually allow us to license the mining and deal with the mining. Here in this investment protection agreement, there is talk of a search. In other words, we have an original Czech company in our territory, which has the right to search and is treated by our laws, as the contract provides, but it has become the property of the Australian company over time, or it has been bought. This agreement also applies to its activities in the framework of the protection of investments between the Czech Republic and Australia. [[18.40 hours]] Who is the investor under this contract? The investor is a citizen or company of one of the Contracting Parties. In accordance with the laws of a Contracting Party or in accordance with the law of a third country and owned by the company referred to in paragraph 1 (d), (i) of this Article, or by a natural person who is a citizen of another Contracting Party in accordance with its law. - That's what I'm saying because there's talk here that Australian society isn't so Australian, that it has its headquarters there and that it has its headquarters, or that it has its activities, in third countries. Here I want to say that this treaty, whether it was written as it was written - at the time, I stress again, 1991 - applies not only to Australian companies, but also to their other subsidiaries, which they have in third countries, because the link here follows from this. In other words, we cannot invoke that, by having a larger ownership interest here, some part of it, which is in a third country, is not covered by this Convention. It does, in this paragraph it is stated this way. Interesting is how you evaluate the property or the value. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Here I want to make it clear... [[A silence.]] I'm gonna wait for the ew to go, and I'm gonna keep going. I heard that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-010-057.u7	If there was any noise, Mr. Ambassador, I would have arranged order. To me, the noise level didn't seem to exceed the level of interference, but, of course, now the situation is that you can definitely continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-010-057.u8	Thank you for the opportunity to continue. I'm just reminding your colleague Stanjur how uncomfortable he is when he's talking down and someone's talking to him about the concept. So I'd like him not to do the same thing to others that bothers him. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. - Here I want to stress that this was the problem when it was mentioned that the Czech company did not actually invest. That she actually has a license, that she's given some resources and that these are actually given under our law as their risks that they can't do as part of the return of their investment. I would like to point out here that according to this agreement, that is not the case. This means that they can make demands and take that it is an investment in the future, and not just the operating expenditure that they have exhausted. The paradox of Article 2 is that this Agreement will apply to investments established after 1 January 1950. Beautiful retroactivity. In 1991 we concluded a contract that included all investments until 1950. I do not know how the legislators at that time dealt with the so-called legal retroactivity in this view of the treaty. Where the company of one Contracting Party is owned or controlled by a citizen or company of a third country, the Contracting Parties may agree against each other that the rights and benefits of this Agreement shall not apply to such a company. - I want to point out here that when we were talking about lithium, when we pointed out that it would be necessary to clarify clearly who the partner was on the other side, we didn't get an answer. Article 3 refers to the promotion and protection of investments. Each Contracting Party will encourage and support investment in its territory by investors of the other Contracting Party and, in accordance with its laws and policies on investment, will allow investment. - This pointless phrase, in quotes, is quite dangerous from the point of view of what happened in the lithium memo. Because this memorandum can just be seen as encouraging future investment. And that's the thing that was just the stone that was decided in the debate that was about lithium. In other words, the memorandum could have been understood by the Australian society as the incentive, the incentive for the investment. And that is a problem, because, of course, we have, in my opinion, commitments to this Treaty. And by the silence that the Australian company does to react to our Ministry of Industry and Trade, it gives us reason to consider that we, thinking about the Czech Republic, can also have quite a large arbitration of the international court, according to the conditions arising from this treaty and to which I will get further. Paradoxic is section 4. This Agreement shall not prevent the investor of one Contracting Party from taking advantage of the legal or political measures of the other Contracting Party which are more favourable than the provisions of this Agreement. - I don't know what other treaty talks about political advantages. They have always been contractual advantages, legally treated contractual benefits that everyone can benefit from. But the political advantages are new, or historical novelty, which has appeared in this treaty and opens up the possibility that when the minister of his own will closes a memorandum, it provides a political advantage. And in this contract, it's handled. In other words, the one who prepared the memorandum drew on this contract here and very cleverly and well cared for the future to which he was headed. Paradoxic is Article 6, which - I warn you again that the contract was established in 1991, so it is quite old - expropriation and nationalization. No Contracting Party shall implement nationalisation, expropriation or other measures which have the same effects as nationalisation or expropriation (hereinafter expropriation/investment of investors of the other Contracting Party, unless the following conditions have been met... In these conditions it is said - expropriation in the public interest relating to the internal need of the Contracting Party was carried out under the law, it is not discriminatory in nature. The expropriation is linked to payment of immediate, adequate and full compensation. - Those are the things we just pointed out in the memorandum that they're quite problematic. And that contracting party, in other words, the Australian company, under this contract, could demand compensation for the full damage involved here in this memorandum. In the next article, it is derived from what will be done as part of the acquisition of the funds and what will be included in it. Paradoxically, counting is also mentioned in yields. In other words, the company has expected returns on which it bases its business. They even showed that this company was quoted and sold its shares on the Australian market and gained an enormous increase thanks to this memorandum and generated revenues. We would actually have to pay these revenues for the second time, because those revenues are protected by this investment protection agreement. Article 10 refers to the settlement of a dispute between the Contracting Parties. If the dispute is not resolved within 90 days of one Contracting Party's request in writing for consultations or negotiations, the dispute shall be submitted at the request of either Contracting Party to a court governed by the provisions of the Appendix. And this treaty or agreement. - I'll get to Appendix A. I want to draw attention to the 90-day deadline. I think that the memorandum that the Ministry of Industry and Trade was trying to resolve in a way that was zero, to say, just put aside - 90 days have passed and we have not taken the appropriate steps to address this memorandum. I will leave out in my speech the matter of the formation of those companies and rather get to Article 14, the entry into force, duration and, above all, the termination of this Treaty. Don't worry, I'm coming to an end. This Treaty entered into force 30 days after the signature, when the Parties notified each other. However, point 2 states: "Each Contracting Party may terminate this Agreement at any time after the expiry of 15 years of the period of validity of the one-year written notice given to the other. " - This has not yet been done by the Czech Republic. She could have done so. This Agreement shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. - In other words, the Australian society can remain silent for 15 years and is able to appeal to this agreement, which still works in our legal order. I'm not going to burden you with Appendix A, where it's going to determine how an arbitration panel will be set up to decide on any disputes. Who you have experienced history, I do not want to name Diag Human and others, TV NOVA and other arbitration disputes led by the Czech Republic, so they all arose and were judged according to the legal standards of the time. That is, in 1990, when the treaty was established, it was considered an ideal objective solution to international disputes of a commercial nature. And this treaty fully refers to this amendment and does so, let's say, without any possibility of appeal. This is also part of the appendix, which clearly states: "The decision-making finding is final, binding and will be executed on the territory of each Contracting Party in accordance with its legal order. " There is no way to appeal to a classic court and resolve these litigations in this spirit. [[18.50 hours]] My questions concerning the framework agreement between the European Union and Australia are heading for the future of the agreement on protection and mutual support for investments concluded in 1991. I have also spoken for so long because I have warned both the petitioners and the foreign committee that these questions are open and that I would like to know the answers to how this treaty will be in force, or what its fate will be in common with the EU-Australia agreement. In other words, is this framework agreement between the European Union and Australia the final agreement? It doesn't say anything in the text. In other words, these contracts will be parallel. I suggested to the Ministry of Industry and Trade that it could incorporate in this framework contract the termination of this contract, which is historically surviving for the Czech Republic - I say again without any insinuation, 1991 was a different year than 2018 - and therefore it could be said that this agreement was abolishing mutual support contracts and protecting investments concluded in the historical period of the previous period. That's not there either. In other words, I would like the petitioner - and now I am heading to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not to the authorized promoter of this material - to answer the honourable Chamber of Deputies these questions: Whether this treaty may include the abolition of this agreement on mutual support and protection of investment between the Czech Republic and Slovakia's Federal Republic and Australia. If so, I would like it to be incorporated into this treaty. If it doesn't allow it, because as far as I know, it's probably a presidential agreement, so we should return it to first reading and let it be dealt with. This will also be one of my proposals, which I will repeat in conclusion. Anyway, I think that in view of the unfortunate memorandum that has already been made, it would require responsible people to deal with this and to disprove all my doubts arising from this existing agreement to protect investment against the possible conclusion of a new contract. This is an opportunity for us to deal with this historic burden, which could trigger quite serious arbitration proceedings against the Czech Republic in the future. So much for my speech. Allow me to conclude by repeating my proposal. I propose that the framework agreement between the European Union and Australia be returned to first reading. At the same time, I ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to answer the question of whether it is possible to work, or to work up the abolition of the agreement between the Czech and Slovak Federal Republics and Australia on mutual support and protection of investments concluded in Canberra in 1991, in order to conclude the issue raised by the unfortunate memorandum on lithium. I'm putting this as a procedural motion for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-010-057.u9	Dear Member, I cannot accept your procedural proposal. I cannot accept the proposal to vote on the return of the contract to first reading. I would remind you that we are in the negotiations of an international treaty, we are in accordance with paragraph 108, and paragraphs 92 to 96 are not applied. This means that we can only vote on the motion for a resolution and the other decision that the House can make is to adjourn the negotiations. The Rules of Procedure do not give us any other choice. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-010-057.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I therefore propose that this item be interrupted by the completion or reply to the questions raised here concerning the 1991 Investment Protection Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-010-057.u11	So you're proposing a suspension until you get an answer to your questions from the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Yes, I think that's an understandable suggestion. I shall put it to the vote immediately. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 201, 174 Members signed in for 49, versus 65. The motion was not accepted. We will continue to discuss this treaty. We are still in the general debate. Anyone else coming in, please? Yes, Mr Kobza has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-010-057.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Following an exhaustive analysis of the contract presented here by Mr Luzar, I would like to point out one further circumstance, which also concerns both unfortunate memorandums, namely that European Metal Holding immediately after signing the first memorandum with the previous Minister of Industry, was listed on the Australian Stock Exchange as the owner of Czech lithium and began to subscribe. So the moment we approve this contract, we're putting ourselves at great risk, because we can't rule out the possibility that this is an EMH exchange trick, as it is actually through arbitration without even kicking at Cínovec, to get to quite a lot of money, that is, our state money. I would like to make a motion to dismiss, because the moment we let this treaty go on, we're getting on very thin ice, and I don't think our voters would forgive us. I'm making a motion to dismiss paragraph 57. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-010-057.u13	Mr Member, I have registered the proposal, but I cannot comply with you in this case either, because Section 108 states clearly: "After the end of the debate, the House will decide whether it agrees to ratify or agrees to withdraw from the international treaty with which the ratification has been given consent; it may also decide that the negotiations are adjourned." The Rules of Procedure do not provide us with any other option. So after the debate, we will decide whether we agree with the resolution or not. We have no choice at this time. With a factual remark, Mr. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Filip. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-010-057.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to find a diplomatic solution to this matter. I think that there is a need for agreement between the parliamentary clubs on whether or not this treaty will be ratified, and I would not like to establish in international relations a situation where it is put before the government - and now it does not matter if it was the government that negotiated it five years ago, ten years ago or a month ago, forgive me - but it is submitted to the Chamber of Deputies to ratify the international treaty so that it does not pass. That wouldn't do any good. So I propose, under the Rules of Procedure Act, a adjournment of this item until 26 June, that is, I think, the day of the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm sure we'll find a way to deal with it in a process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-010-057.u15	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. There was a motion to adjourn until June 26th. We will deal with this proposal at the end of the general debate. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-010-057.u16	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to make sure that I correctly interpret my colleague Luzar through Mr President. If I'm not mistaken, he did a detailed analysis of the contract, but contracts other than the one on our desk. I just wanted to make sure that what my colleague Kobza said isn't entirely up to the point we're discussing. If I understand my colleague Luzar correctly, we have a 1991 contract signed by Czechoslovakia with Australia at the time, and now we are dealing with a new treaty between us and Australia, and he has objections to the original treaty and wants to deal with it within the framework of this treaty, but he did not oppose the current treaty as such. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-010-057.u17	Thank you for this contribution. I'm saying it's 19 o'clock. According to the agreement, today's sitting day of the Chamber of Deputies ends. We should not vote in the same way under the Rules of Procedure. So I'm interrupting this point. The debate is not yet closed. That's what I'm saying for the tape screen. I conclude today's meeting day with the House of Deputies meeting again tomorrow, Wednesday 13. Six, nine o'clock. We will discuss the points from the third reading block, first a fixed point 80. Have a good evening.
