ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u1	61. Government proposal by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give consent to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union (the House Press 97/ - first reading) The last time we stopped discussing this point was June 12th. We interrupted it in the middle of a general debate, so I will ask Minister Alena Schillerová and the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Kubík to take up seats at the rapporteur's table. We will continue with the interrupted general debate. Mrs Válková is enrolled in the general debate. Mrs Válková is not here, so her application cannot be considered valid. I ask if anyone is reporting to the general debate. This is Mr Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I know we've been discussing this on the fourth day, but let's ask why we're discussing this on the fourth day. It has already been classified four times as fixed on the fourth day of this meeting. And this procedure seems really untrustworthy to me. Let me get this straight. On the one hand, we hear honey talk here about how this international treaty does not de facto mean anything to us, and that it is therefore not so important, on the other hand, at this ANO meeting, it constantly proposes a prioritization of this point as if it were the most important point in this meeting. That's what it looks like, that's what it looks like for the public. And it also comes to putting such inconspicuous, in quotation marks, I don't want to say threats, that's a strong word, but such a transfer of feeling that if we don't belong to the core, no one will talk to us and we'll be naughty students. That is simply no reason for us to accept this pact. The Minister answered some of my questions yesterday, but she did not answer one of the most fundamental questions that I have repeatedly asked from the start here, and that is, as Finance Minister Andrej Babiš meant in 2014, when he said that the adoption of this international treaty, the fiscal pact, was the first step towards the euro. So far, the answer is really stunning, and I'd say it's exciting and, above all, elucidating. Astounding silence has been the answer to this question so far. On the one hand, then, we see bagatellisation, on the other hand, an attempt to scare - and silence on unpleasant questions. And the hard way to get it through this meeting is to get it through the first reading. And I have to ask again why. What's the real reason? Does this seem to you, my fellow Members, to be credible and direct? The Minister has repeatedly said that this is not a European treaty, that it is a treaty between states. However, Mr Skopeček here has made it clear that on 6 December 2017, the European Commission came up with a plan to deepen European economic and monetary union and, as part of the proposal, to deepen and integrate the fiscal pact into the European legal framework. This means that the European Union itself is counting on this to become a legal framework. And it's a classic salami method. If this is the first step towards adopting the euro, what will be the next step, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth? We didn't know the answer to that here. We've learned that it doesn't really mean anything, and we're discussing this here repeatedly. Or are the other signatories pushing us to do that? Do we have to accept this so-called voluntary? But we all know that approach, and we shouldn't jump in and repeat it. The Minister said yesterday that the Czech Republic was the last potential candidate for ratification. But that sentence doesn't explain why it wants to be accepted. If everyone jumps out the window, shall we jump? That's not the relevant argument that everyone has. What will be the benefits for us, what will be the cost, what will be the future development? These are questions that we have not received answers to, and we should get them when approving such an important international treaty. If there are some limitations to our national competences in the future, which I think lies under the concept of economic policy coordination, then we should know why. What I'm implying here is that I see the reason for the government's image in front of others, which I think is very little, to go and agree on such a contract without knowing further developments. Furthermore, the Minister said the following in her speech - this is a quote: There is indeed a proposal for the transfer of a fiscal pact to European legislation, but it makes a fundamental distinction between two groups of states, euro area members and non-euro area members. And for non-euro area members, which is also the Czech Republic, this would be binding and would apply at the time of entry into the euro area, which is a very important condition. But that really brings us back to the really serious question. Is this really the first step towards the euro? Which - and I can do it again - which was said by Andrej Babiš in February 2014. I'll repeat the quote here for your memory: I think the way to the euro is a long one. More or less, we agreed to start with a fiscal pact. That should be the first step. - And I repeatedly, several times, repeat the question: Is this the first step towards the euro? I wonder if it really is, because of all the hard work here in plenary at this meeting of our House of Honor, but at the same time because of the lack of explanation why it is being put forward so hard, it seems to us that it has some hidden meaning, and we really want to know what it is. The long discussion did not distract our concerns, on the contrary, it raised further questions. As our colleagues and I have said here several times, we have nothing meritorically against debt brakes. On the contrary. We think that, at a time of economic boom, balanced or even surplus budgets should be approved and budgets with a 50-billion-dollar deficit should not be approved. We are in favour of adopting our own rules, but we do not really need a foreign treaty for that. And I'm really worried about what's going to be the third, fourth, fifth step after that first step. So that this does not end, for example, with an energy union, where other states, through the EU, impose unrealistic objectives and measures on us, and thus attack, for example, our energy security and self-sufficiency. And at the beginning, it was also hidden under the concept of coordination of energy policies. This development could really be anything. So we'd like to see how it goes. [[14.50 hours]] So I'd sum it up with your permission. We see here, and the public sees a firm effort for a quick first-reading reception at this meeting, on the other hand, the debacle of impact under the term "nothing means" but a great persuasion for adoption. Everybody's got it. But this does not really inspire confidence in us to vote in favour of this Treaty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll introduce you to one more apology that has run out in the meantime. Mr Jan Richter apologizes from 15 a.m. to the rest of today's day for working reasons in the region. We will continue with the general debate to which Mr Rozvoral is entered, after which Mrs Válková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, on the proposal submitted by the Government to give consent to access to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union signed in Brussels on 2 March 2012, our SPD movement will take a unanimous negative position. That means we're against consent. All the activities mentioned in this document are conducted with a specific objective and this makes the Czech Republic closer to the euro area and speeding up the transition from the national currency of the Czech koruna to the euro. In this context, I will mention the results of last year's Eurobarometer survey, where 70 percent of respondents opposed the adoption of the euro in the Czech Republic. I believe and believe that all of us here who represent our citizens should, first and foremost, respect their views and interests. Although the complainant points out in the reasoning that the contract will have no direct impact on the state budget, it will only until it complies with Article 14 (1) of the Treaty. 5 shall become its provisions applicable to the Czech Republic. The reason is also mentioned - I quote: "The Czech Republic has actually complied with the requirements of the fiscal pact by means of the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility, Act No. 23/2017 Coll., and related legislation." Here is also the question: why do we have to deal with this? These answers come from this. One. This is another instrument that will serve as a means of applying sanctions against the Czech Republic in the finals if it does not act exactly according to the dictation from Brussels. Two. Another unnecessary increase in bureaucracy, because the content of the pact is, for example, a commitment that each of the states will introduce the described rules into its national legislation and also enforceable fines in breach of the agreed conditions. Three. An unpleasant fact is the so-called automatic activation of sanctions, which will apply if the general government deficit is exceeded above the determined GDP level. Another problem is the fact that the very concept of structural deficit has a relation to the structure of the economy and thus represents an unparalleled and hard-to-definable limit. This is recorded to EU officials who can view this variable differently, measure it differently and judge it and change their views. However, their decision will be the basis for legally enforceable sanctions. Five. The problem is that accession to the proposed economic conditions narrows the scope for economic stimulus in certain sectors, making pro-active employment policy difficult. So once again, our SPD movement is fundamentally opposed to agreeing to access to this treaty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u5	Thank you. President Kalousek is entered in the general debate with priority rights. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Munzar has argued convincingly here with the wordings relating to the coordination of economic policies. I think it is necessary to add, however, that these wordings are in Title IV, and the government has agreed to a fiscal compact with the fact that it has negotiated an exemption or exercised the right of exemption to Titles III and IV, i.e. in the coordination of economic policies, they have an exception and we will not be bound by these wordings by accession to this Treaty. First of all. But first of all, I wanted to talk about something else. Members of the SPD, but also some others, when we talk about this treaty, always refer to it as a fundamental step towards adopting the euro and argue against adopting the euro in the Czech Republic. With all the experience of the Minister of Finance and a long-standing Member who negotiated and approved those treaties, I say absolutely absolutely that you will not find one single word in the entire fiscal compact that would bring us one step closer to adopting the euro, whether one of us wishes to accept it or not. It's just not there. And if someone argues by the euro when they talk about fiscal compact, they are committing a fundamental argumentatorial foul. Of course, I very much blame the government for applying the exception to Title III, because that Title III is a gros and the core of fiscal compact, and far more strictly than the Maastricht criteria, it applies some parameters to the management of public budgets. We have an exception there, too. So, indeed, the absolutely fundamental impact of the adoption of this Treaty on the implementation of the government's economic policy is simply not here. Unfortunately, that's a fact. I wish he was, but he's not. There is only one argument left, which is very embellished, namely that all countries other than the United Kingdom, which has chosen Brexit, all other countries have joined the fiscal compact, albeit many of them - Poland, Hungary - have also applied as the government of the Czech Republic an exception to Titles III and IV. In politics, ladies and gentlemen, symbols are important. That is, logically, many of our partners from the 26 countries that have already joined will ask themselves: If the Čech do not want to ratify it exactly as the Brit do, do they not want to leave the European Union as the Brit do? And I'm one of those guys who doesn't want our partners to ask that question because it doesn't make them sure what kind of partner we are. It's not a marginal reason, it's a fundamental reason. For this reason, we will also vote in favour. And one more time back to saying that - and please let anyone show me one letter in that treaty that brings us closer to the euro - so I dare say that those who oppose fiscal compact are in favour of getting out of the European Union. Of course it's nonsense, I don't think so. But it is much more logical than the argument of those who say that by joining fiscal compact, we are approaching the euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u7	Thank you. Mrs Válková, Mr Skopeček, will now speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u8	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, I am finally getting to my task, which, fortunately, is much more modest than the substantive comments that we have heard here a moment ago and expressed so well, my previous speaker, Mr Kalousek, has made clear in your way, Mr President, about the nature of the transfer of powers from the Czech Republic to the European Union. [[15.00 hours]] I think that this is an important question, because if material arguments fail - and I say, much more qualified here, Mr Kalousek expressed it - I, as a non-economist, and someone who deliberately leaves the matter aside, must say that I did not really find anything in this treaty that could be characterised as a certain, even a potential commitment or intention to speed up or undermine the importance of the accession or accession to the monetary union and the introduction of the euro as a currency in the Czech Republic. That's not really there. But if this factual argument fails or you do not listen to it, of course, the procedural one always comes forward, in this case procedural one, and we have already heard here as one of the fundamental objections that this international treaty should be approved by a qualified majority, by a three-fifth majority of Members, in view of the fact that it is an international treaty that is ratified under Article 10a of our Constitution and when there is a transfer of powers to other institutions, in this case to European institutions, which will then actually exercise some of the powers of the Czech Republic. I think that a very well-founded basis for someone who would like to deal more with this issue is a publication that was published about ten years ago, not really, about eight years ago, International treaties in Czech law - Petr Mlsna, Jan Kněžínek - theoretical basis of negotiation, approval, ratification, announcement and application. In particular, Chapter 7.2 The nature of the transfer of the powers of the Czech Republic to the European Union I recommend your attention, page 323 et seq. Because I do not want to obstruct and prolong this negotiation, precisely the opposite, I will not quote it, and I will just sum up that the Czech Republic, just after it has modified the article as it now sounds, has set out relatively precisely the cases, although it seems to be very general, relatively but sufficiently precisely defined the cases where the transfer of those powers takes place precisely by having to prove, in those specific cases, on those documents that go through the optics whether or not a qualified majority is needed here that the qualified majority is needed. What would happen if we applied this criterion, that we would rather do it by qualified majority, approve, ratify, I can tell you in a very clear way - we would get outside the principles of the rule of law, because we would abuse the tightened regime for these purposes enshrined in the Constitution, and use it to approve documents that do not require such a procedure. So, from this point of view, I'm sure it's a procedure I wouldn't recommend. And if any of you remember, I was the one who spoke when the negotiations for the negotiation of this treaty were under way, and I said, "Beware - first, the discount, in this regard I did not identify with government legislation, and I think that the Senate should discuss it again, even if it is only changed in a third and, in fact, continuously its existence, unlike the Chamber of Deputies, continues, such an important treaty, but at the same time I asked myself, when they approved it qualifiedly, if we also have to go in a procedural way. Based on our Constitution, following the study of the relevant material, the scientific literature published by me concludes - and, on the contrary, in this respect, I identify with government legislation - so that we can conclude that this international treaty is subject to the ratification regime under Article 10a of our Constitution, it would have to meet the requirements it does not meet. And in theory, I like the criterion of generality and the aspect of time, i.e. the aspect of generality, the transfer, the aspect of time limitation; and these two aspects, aspects, if you wish, must be valid for this tightening regime to be the international treaty that we must submit to the stricter approval procedure. Now that I have skipped various theoretical considerations, I will conclude that it is necessary to examine with this optics, in particular, Articles 3, 7 and 8, when Article 3 provides for an obligation to introduce into national law, preferably at constitutional level, a rule of balanced or surplus public budgets - I have already learned that this is called the golden budgetary rule - and then there are various economic requirements for it to be called that. And there could be some questioning for those who think that this should have a more stringent framework, that or the fact that the involvement of any EU body, in this case, is the European Commission, under an international treaty which has not yet been joined by all the Member States of the European Union, is precisely the moment that could give rise to the transfer of powers. However, when we look at this, Article 3 entrusts the European Commission with some new competences which are not yet regulated by Union law. It is the competence to propose a timetable for the direction towards the medium-term objective, then common principles for the implementation of the redress mechanisms to be introduced by the Contracting Parties into national law. And the transfer of powers could eventually be seen in the fact that it is entrusted to the European Commission to a very broad extent with the power to decide on the content of the budgetary discipline of the relevant contracting State. But against that, and I think that it is quite convincing, is another fact that the budgetary powers will continue to be exercised by national authorities under national law, because the budgetary rules are enshrined at national level. So you can already see that at first glance it would seem that yes, it occurs, but in fact, in substance, this criterion cannot be fulfilled because there is no transfer of powers. [[There's noise in the room.]] As far as Article 7 is concerned, it also does not, in my view, constitute a transfer of powers, because the opinion of the Council's legal service has already been expressed once that the commitment of the Contracting Parties to maintain in the course of the procedure leading to the adoption of a Council decision which will help achieve the objectives of economic and monetary union without violating the procedural rules laid down in the European Union's instruments of incorporation does not circumvent the right to vote under Article 126 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. On the contrary, the regime continues to apply here as in other international treaties, and it cannot be deduced anywhere from any provision that there is any exception.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u9	Excuse me, Madam. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down and let Mrs Válková have the opportunity to introduce us in an appropriate atmosphere with her arguments. Thank you. Please, madam, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u10	Thank you, too, Mr President. In this context, therefore, in my view, we can also argue that, ultimately, even if it were to change the voting procedure enshrined in primary law, it is not possible, under our constitutional law, under the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic, to consider extending the Union's competence, since the change concerns only the method of voting, not the procedure and the result itself. Finally, in the same way or in a similar way, I could argue with regard to Article 8, which also does not constitute the transfer of general jurisdiction to the Court of Justice of the European Union, but the definition of only a specific circle of disputes which the Court of Justice of the European Union will be able to deal with without the transfer of that general jurisdiction. So, in turn, the condition of the generality of delegation of powers, as I mentioned earlier, is not fulfilled. [[15.10 hours]] So the conclusion is that this treaty, from this point of view, is not really easy to assess so that we can be sure without submitting it to a relatively detailed legal and international analysis. It's a separate international treaty. It is not dependent on the existing contractual framework of the European Union, although the text itself contains a number of references to both primary and secondary law of the European Union. At the same time, the Treaty assumes that the Union institutions will play an important role in its implementation and application, and this may confuse us that certain powers are being transferred, but they are not actually taking place. There we would indeed have to demonstrate that such delegation of power meets the generality criterion and the time criterion. I think that, in order to launch a possible debate on this subject, my speech could end with a statement that I am almost certain that if we do not present other arguments in the debate now that would refute those conclusions, partly quite theoretical, about the nature of this international treaty of sui generis and the way in which we should approve it, we can conclude that we do not need to approve it by qualified majority and that the main reason remains confirmed and is the absence of transfer of powers to other international organisations, as required by Article 10a of our states. If you find anything there, of course, I found such indications there, it's a completely marginal, tiny transfer of powers that doesn't change the overall conclusion. I would almost appeal to us not to impose a more strict and stricter regime where there is no need for it, and in case of doubt it is possible to really turn and study not very rich Czech Czech domestic literature, but what about our conclusions very well processed monograph and also the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which can also apply cum grano salis to this material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u11	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus will take a real note, followed by President Radim Fiala with priority rights and followed by Mr Skopeček in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u12	Hello. I wanted to respond to Mr Kalousek, but in the meantime, she spoke with a long speech. In addition to the rhetorical exercise, I noted in Mr Kalousek's speech that it is actually not important whether the law is in favour of the Czech Republic and our citizens, but that it is crucial what the partners from the European Union will think about us. Well, I'd take the liberty of saying, "No. This is an autonomous House, we are responsible for our constituents and this republic, and not something that someone will think of us from any other state or superstate units. Moreover, I am sure that people in Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Italy might have a similar relationship to this. So you're more afraid of what certain elites in one of Europe's unnamed cities will say. This is a thing that has so easily pissed me off that I have pressed for a factual point, because this approach to the laws really seems incredible to me, because we should answer to us, the Czech Republic, and that should be superior to everything, not to what the partners think about us, so vote for it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u13	President Kalousek will make a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u14	I am sorry to piss off colleagues, but nevertheless I believe that what our allies think about us in the two key allied alliances in which we are, the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance, so if they think about us well, it is in the Czech Republic's national interest. And if they do not think well of us, in my opinion we are threatening the national interest of the Czech Republic. It's a question of what we define as national interest. That is why I am also saying that when the President makes some of his remarks, the last time in the case of a novice, threatens the national interest of the Czech Republic, even though it is, of course, our own thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u15	Thank you. President Radim Fiala with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot, of course, agree with what Mr Kalousek has said here. And without wanting to do that, what I'm going to say here, of course, concerns and is in complete conflict with what has been said here. On the issue of the fiscal pact, it is necessary to speak quite clearly to the substance of the matter. This whole proposal is part of the salami method of bringing the Czech Republic into the euro area. Of course, there is not a word about the euro, but all the countries that are in the euro area had to approve the fiscal pact. It is a fundamental condition of entry into the euro area. The euro isn't written there, it's only the last step that would of course be waiting for us. Of course, our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement allows only one method of adopting the euro by the Czech Republic, and that, of course, is a referendum. Not to be decided by the coalition government or the non-alliance government, or even the government in demise, but to be decided by all citizens, because that is a path from which it is hard to return to its own currency. And I will say in the next part of my speech why our own currency is important to us. We don't deal with alibis if not now, but maybe then, and if not after, when actually. Our movement is quite openly expressing itself on this country's political problems. Let me say this. Yesterday I listened when we discussed the fiscal pact, Mr Stanjura, who said that the ODS is pro-European, that we have no alternative, but that the ODS is critical. I would like to say here today that the SPD is critical, together with our partner parties in Europe, that we know an alternative to European cooperation. Not that it doesn't exist, it does. It is, of course, an alternative, a Europe of sovereign states very closely cooperating. Of course, we reject further integration in this sense, as we see it in the European Union, and the next step is the fiscal integration of the European Union, which, of course, we also reject and at the end of which the euro is mentioned. The introduction of the euro was not an economic necessity, but it was a political project intended to help collectivization of Europe, as is planned by the worshipers of Karel Marx's ideology in Brussels. We are not allowed to participate in this financial collectiveization. The experience of European countries that have adopted the euro for political reasons is disastrous. Some countries of the European Union to the south of the Czech Republic or in the south of Europe will owe up to the end of the world or to the end of the cosmos, because I cannot imagine a longer time unit. In conclusion, let me go back to the beginning. It's a salami method. It is a similar method, such as various Marrakesh and other declarations, where we have to sign something here and there, we have to agree with something a little bit, we have to add a little bit to something to find out at some point that we are a boiled frog in Brussels soup. The Czech Republic must define its interest hard and clearly. In this context, this is complete sovereignty over public budgets and, secondly, its own currency. It is the currency itself and sovereignty over its own budget that are the basic tools for us to cope with any possible repetition of the economic crisis, unlike, for example, those countries that lie in the south of Europe. [[15.20 hours]] I even think that a fiscal pact should not even be adopted by a government in demise. I think it is such an important thing, at least for the SPD movement, that it should be accepted by the government with the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. Allow me, then, to propose a suspension of this point here until the Chamber of Deputies has a government with confidence in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u17	I understand that, Mr President, you have tabled a procedural motion to suspend this point until the government is confident. I think that such a proposal is understandable and we can vote on it. [[Sounds like a gong.]] I call on Members who are not in the Chamber at the moment to take part in the vote. There's a checkout request. Please log in with your ID cards again. Please give priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On behalf of the MP's club, we take a 10-minute break at the club's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u19	However, I have to vote on the procedural proposal and then, of course, I will comply with your request. So we will vote on the suspension of this point until the government is confident here. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 224, 144 Members registered, for 40, against 71. The motion was not accepted. At this point, I am declaring a 10-minute break for the ANO meeting, which means that we will continue the negotiations in 15.32.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u20	It's 15.32. We will continue the negotiations that have been suspended on the basis of a request for a break. The apologies that have come in the meantime are as follows: Mr Feri apologises between 18 and 19 o'clock for reasons of work. From 16.30 to the end of the day, Mrs Karla Maříková, Jana Levová and Members Pavel Jelínek and Zdeněk Podal apologize. Mr Milan chovanec apologizes for visiting the doctor from the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. And from 18.15 to the end of the day, Mr Aleš Juchelka apologizes for reasons of work. We will continue the general debate. Mr Skopeček, who is the only member of the general debate at the moment, has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u21	Thank you very much, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I was quite detailed on the subject in the first days of the hearing, so I don't want to scare you, but I won't be that long this time. I will not be so detailed, however, since a few days have passed since then, and the discussion around the fiscal pact has been quite rich, so let me just sum up my main reservations as to why I think we should not accept the fiscal pact, as the Treaty says in short. The first argument that we should not adopt a fiscal pact is that the Czech Republic does not need a fiscal pact. Fiscal pact, respectively. its individual provisions would only apply to us, if necessary, when the Czech Republic entered the euro area. The second question is whether we are defending it by not being attached to the fiscal pact, whether we are defending or making life difficult for our partners in Europe who have joined the fiscal compact. We don't stop them from doing anything, we don't make life difficult for them. Our not signing, our not joining the fiscal pact does not change their commitments or the functioning of the treaty that European partners have decided directly to. So we do not need a fiscal pact because it would be valid for us at the time of joining the euro area, and we do not even complicate the life of existing signatories. The second argument, why I think we should not vote on this Treaty at all, is that it is a relatively serious international treaty that will be adopted and proposed by the government without confidence. At this point, I am wondering, for example, the TOP 09 Club, which will not neglect to remind this government that the government is without trust, in any more serious vote, in any more serious political matter and topic. When adopting such a serious international treaty, the TOP 09 is okay. Strange. Another argument why we should not adopt a fiscal pact is that it is not just about better budgetary management, as the debate might seem. Fiscal compact means for those countries that join it and respect all of its heads, and for giving up a certain degree of sovereignty in the area of economic and, in particular, budgetary policy. At a time when some of these countries will not meet the structural deficit criterion, there is intervention and the possibility of suing the State in a European court. There is an obligation to coordinate economic reforms. Another argument that was raised here in favour of the adoption of the fiscal pact is that this means a reputation risk to the Czech Republic when we do not join it. It should be recalled that the Czech Republic, although the government is putting forward deficit budget proposals, has so far managed much better than the signatories to the fiscal pact. While the average debt of the euro area, public debt to GDP is about 80 per cent, such signatories as Italy, there is more than 100 per cent debt, so the Czech Republic is dramatically better off. So, at a time when any partner on European soil would ask me why we do not want to join the fiscal pact, that perhaps we do not mean good management and we do not have good management, so I would remind him that his country, although attached to the fiscal pact, is operating dramatically worse than the Czech Republic. So, of course, there's no reputational risk here. Far worse public finance reputations have those countries that, unlike us, have long joined the fiscal pact. The fiscal pact was adopted as an international treaty to ensure that the euro area is better managed after the financial and economic crisis, which has turned into a debt crisis and subsequently a transfer crisis, when those more responsible Member States are saving the less responsible. However, the fiscal pact, when we look at the history and look at how individual countries manage, and there is no need to remind just the ragged Greece, but the new need to take into account and draw attention to the growing problem of the economic situation in Italy, as well as the fiscal pact for no better management, has simply not led to any more responsible budgetary policy. It's an ineffective contract. No one started to manage better on its basis. Why should we join something that just doesn't work? It's just, like moms used to call us, when your friend jumps out the window, you follow him? Just that he's your friend? I think the analogy fits in this case. The countries that joined the pact did not, on average, start to manage better. Then there is such a more general argument, and that is the question of whether budgetary policy is to be coordinated and enforced by Brusel or is it a homework task. TOP 09, and it is a legitimate opinion, will think that there is a need to commit more and more powers to Brussels and that this management is better to make Brussels out of this than from the Ministry of Finance here on Letenská Street. I think that budgetary policy is primarily a domestic task, that it should be a domestic conflict and that we should try to manage not because any international treaty or international institution wants us to do so, but because it is a healthy principle for the state to be stable and rich and economically successful. Another argument why I think we should not vote on this Treaty is that the euro area is currently going through a very serious debate about how it will work in the coming period. I've already talked about this here. There is a proposal for the establishment or conversion of a European stabilisation mechanism into a European Monetary Fund. There is also an ambition to transform this so far international government treaty into the primary law of the European Union. And I feel that at this point, when it culminates, or when there is a very detailed debate about what the eurozone will look like in the future, there is no reason with this pact, which, as I said, we do not need, and we are not holding anybody back, so there is no reason to rush into this, and it seems more logical to me to wait to see how the debate will develop, how the eurozone will change. For example, the fiscal pact of European legislation will not become a primary right, and we can talk about it after it is clear. So that's the conclusion. We will accept a treaty that we do not need in any way, which no partners in the European Union are holding back, which is not working and which is likely to record a change in future months and years. I do not think it is rational to argue for such a proposal of the text for these reasons. [[15.40 hours]] What's the conclusion? Probably the fiscal pact will pass through the first reading. I will go back to what Mr Kalousek said through Mr Kalousek, that it is foolish to think that this treaty will bring us closer to the euro. Indeed, there is nothing written in the Treaty on the adoption of the euro or on the next step towards the euro area, but for any member who wishes to be a member of the euro area, a fiscal pact is, of course, mandatory. And when countries that are not in the euro area are not covered by the fiscal pact, and those who want to enter the euro area must have it, it is clear why this ambition is here. So those who vote for this fiscal pact will be divided into two groups. Either they want to bring us closer to the eurozone and to the adoption of the euro by the salami method, or they want to like Brussels and to be even deeper in that tilt than they have been so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u22	Thank you. Mr Jan Volný will respond with a point of fact, after which President Kalousek will speak in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u23	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, co-workers, I'd like to follow up on a colleague of the Skopeček, who I respect as an economist, but his analogy kind of pulled my ears when he said that my mom was saying to the baby, "If your friend jumps out the window, why would you jump too?" But this is a pretty toothless example, because take that class has 27 children, 26 jumps out of those windows, and one stays alone. Well, that's not a happy situation either. [[Laughs in the hall and applause echoes.]] And this is just the example that we're dealing with here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u24	Thank you. President Kalousek in the general debate. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u25	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make three comments, two comments on Mr Skopeček's speech and one about President Fiala's speech. President Skopeček said that the budgetary policy of the state should be as sovereign as possible and that we certainly should not submit to a dictation from Brussels. That's what he said. First of all, I would like to say that the fiscal compact as we are going to vote for it or not... When the gentlemen scream behind me, I'll continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u26	It's quiet now, Mr. Chairman. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. The fiscal compact, whether or not we vote for it, does not change the millimeter of the sovereignty of the state's budgetary policy. It just doesn't. There is nothing that forces us to pass on any competence to joint decision-making within the European Union. However, it is a fact that, in the case of budgetary policy, we have already decided to transfer these common competences. For example, the Sixth Directive of the European Union, which lays down binding rules for all Member States in the field of indirect taxes on the common European market - it is logical, of course, that there should be some degree of harmonisation in the field of indirect taxes. But to call it a dictation from Brussels, only someone who has a problem with a dictation from the Czech language can say that. [[There's laughter.]] Because it is always a common agreement between the Member States. Nothing else. When I was President of the Council of Ministers of the European Union in 2009, I suspect that I was the only or the last President of the Minister of Finance of the Council, who reached a rather extensive agreement in the area of VAT, when a taboo broke through and that Member States were allowed to provide services with high added value of human work, restaurant services, hotel services, bicycle repair, hairdressing - I will not name it all now, but it is simply services with high added value of human work, to be placed at a reduced rate. I assure you, because I negotiated this agreement for several months and finally successfully agreed with the European Council at the level of the prime ministers that there was no dictatorship from Brussels, that we had a very serious and serious argument, that we were giving each other some compromises, and I was honored to chair the debate where the agreement was then approved. That was all of us's deal. That was no dictation. And I object to the wording - a dictatorship from Brussels. I have been involved in many of these agreements, and I have never witnessed any dictation. It's always been a mutual agreement. Mr Skopeček's second statement, which I would quite like to respond to, is that he is surprised that the TOP 09, which many times submits to the government that it is a government without trust, is willing to vote in favour. Of course, we will always remind the government of this at a time when we believe it is taking absolutely unacceptable measures in a time without trust, as personnel purges in ministries and security forces. The government really shouldn't do that without trust. However, the adoption of the TOP 09 fiscal compact was still sought at a time when the YES 2011 movement did not exist. Mr. Blažek, I'm sure Stanjura has witnessed that I have proposed this several times as Minister of Finance of the Nečasův government. I justified why we should do this, unlike this government, without exception from Title III, where the parameters of the total amount of debt and structural deficit are defined. We have no problems with the debt, and we will not have it for a long time, but we will start having problems very soon, depending on how the government behaves. I don't mean next year, but I do soon. So when we've been trying to do this since 2010, there's no reason for me to change my goals and my long-term opinions today. Mr. Fiala's speech. Okay. "I have heard arguments about the fact that, although there is not a word in that treaty that would bring us any closer to adopting the euro, but we well know that it is a salami method to bring us closer to the euro..." Okay. If this logic is true, this argument, I dare to insist on my claim that anyone who votes against fiscal compact wants to leave the European Union. It is an argumentative foul, but the argumentative foul about ten times smaller than when you claim that the adoption of a fiscal compact brings us closer to the adoption of the euro.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u28	Mr Bláha will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u29	I wouldn't be long. I am certainly not a fan of all EU regulations, but while we are there, we should face this. [[Someone's clapping.]] And the first thing. This is where we heard all the arguments about why we shouldn't enter. One of them was not to go anywhere that didn't work. So let's change that. And more importantly, why are we here today? We don't work here either. So why are we sitting here? It's because we want to make a difference that makes things better. So the argument doesn't fit where something doesn't work. Because at that point, we shouldn't be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u30	With factual remarks, Mr Klaus and Mr Skopeček will now speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u31	I would just like to thank Mr Bláh for actually telling us the same thing as Mr Kalousek, but more often. Kalousek says it so sophisticatedly, but Mr. Bláha said it so that people would understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u32	Thank you. Mr Skopeček and his point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u33	I will also respond to Mr Bláha. I wish him good luck in putting together the public finances of Italy, Greece, Spain. I'm curious. I will take his advice on how he wants to achieve that the signatories to the fiscal pact will start to manage better. When I see the budget policy of the YES movement and its government, which proposes a 50-billion-dollar deficit at the time of economic growth, I think that would probably be the final stop and the last loss for Italy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u34	Is anyone else reporting for the general debate, please? This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. Is there interest in final words? Neither the Minister nor the rapporteur are interested. I am calling on Members at this point because we will be voting. We will vote on the proposal that was made in the general debate on 1 June, which was made by Mr Karel Krejza, and it is a motion for rejection. So one more time. At this point, we will vote on the motion to reject. Initiating... There's a checkout request. Before I took the vote, I'll grant it. I'm checking everyone out. Please log in with your ID cards again. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 225 registered 159 Members, for 39, against 103. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion as a guarantee committee to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? Mr Skopeček reporting, Mr Dolejš. [[Objection that he sent. You checked in first.]] Well, I'm sorry if that's the case. Mr Dolejš actually applied earlier. We'd prefer him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u35	I think my colleague and I will Skopeček happy to line up in these procedural proposals. I would have liked to suggest - and that this is a fiscal problem with the debt brake, so perhaps we all understand that the guarantee committee should become a budget committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u36	I apologize because I could have fooled the Chamber of Deputies with my comments. In this case, we allocate only to committees, none of which is guaranteed in this respect. Just so we're clear. So there was a motion for a budget committee. Mr Skopeček was also signed in. It's no longer logged in, he had the same proposal. Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u37	I would very much like it if it were really as Mr Dolejš and Mr Skopeček say that we would approve some fiscal brake, then it would undoubtedly be part of the budget committee. But we will not approve of such a thing, because the fiscal brake is in Title III, and for Title III, the government has requested an exception, as the fiscal compact rules allow it, just as it has requested an exception for economic policy coordination. So please nicely, colleagues, every time you talk about some kind of restriction on sovereign competences in the area of economic policy, possibly. fiscal policies, so you're just not telling the truth, because it's not in that compact because of the exception that the government signed it. First of all. Two. Therefore, since we do not approve of any fiscal brake and it is, as I am deeply convinced, exclusively about an act of international policy, because unlike Mr Klaus, I do not care what my allies think of me, I consider it an important aspect of Czech foreign policy, because that foreign policy is what my allies and my neighbours think about me, so I think it belongs to the foreign committee as a guarantee committee, and therefore I suggest that the foreign committee be approved as a guarantee committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u38	President Kalousek has priority rights, so he can speak without proposing any committee. I warn everyone else that I can only give the floor if they propose the commandments to another committee. This is Mr Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u39	[[Voices from left: Economic Committee.]] Thank you. I am only in response to Mr Kalousek - and I will propose another committee for discussion, because the government can then unilaterally withdraw from that exception. We will no longer have it here for approval in the Chamber of Deputies, so I would suggest, because there is talk in those heads of economic policy coordination, I propose - exactly - an economic committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u40	Yes. Is there another motion on the commandment of the committee, please? Mr. Benda reporting. I ask the Chamber of Deputies to hear the proposals and we know what we are going to vote on. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u41	I don't really want it. If you do not order me to do so, I will not be angry, but only because I said this here yesterday in the debate that I think it should be clarified by the majority voted on this treaty, so I recommend that the committees concerned deal with this and answer this question to us, because the answer really is not that the two ministers who submit it want it, which is the answer contained in the explanatory memorandum or that it be ordered by the Constitutional Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u42	Yes, I understand this proposal. Mr. Mr. Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u43	I would like to propose one more committee, and it is a committee on European affairs, which is certainly a committee to which, thanks to the foreign policy European context, it belongs, and at the same time, I think that the Committee on Budgets should discuss this, even though Mr Dolejš did not exactly express himself as regards the debt brake, so the very fact that it is called a fiscal pact suggests that the Committee on Budgets will have something to do with it. And the fact that we have a negotiated exception so far does not mean that the exception may not change in the future. At the moment, if there is a political majority here that wants to drag us into the eurozone - I want to say it, but I won't be ugly... Thanks to which we will enter the euro area, this will undoubtedly apply to the fiscal aspect as well. So, of course, Mr. Kalousek is wrong. This is more than part of the budget committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u44	Thank you. Another proposal - the President. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u45	Mr President, colleagues, here it is shown how raw the subject is, how undisputed it is, unnegotiated. I personally consider, together with many others, who spoke here in this debate on the subject of fiscal compact, to be one of the main topics of this parliamentary term. And there were so many suggestions for discussion. I understand those who want this on the foreign committee because they see it as a first-time political, foreign-policy issue. I understand those who propose it to the Committee on Budgets, because it is nothing more than a budget issue. I also understand those who want it for other committees because it is a matter in which every committee has something to say. And that is why I would like to ask, after further proposals may still be made for inclusion in the committee, that we may be able to thoroughly assess which of these proposals we prefer, for a one-hour break at the KSČM club's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u46	Yes. President Kováčik himself said that after all the proposals for the inclusion of the committee were made. So I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. Mr. Klaus reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u47	This fiscal pact is, of course, the first step for the adoption of the euro in the Czech Republic, which we do not need to hide. All the countries that have adopted the euro for political reasons - there we are watching a major economic downturn, especially in the southern countries of the euro area - are watching huge youth unemployment, and this obviously has a major impact on the education system that should be prepared for this. So I'm also suggesting that we be included in the school committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u48	President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u49	Thank you. On the basis of the argument that has just been put forward, I would like to propose to include agriculture in the Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Is there any other proposal for inclusion in the committee? It's not. So, at this point, I'm just going to sum up, for the record, what proposals have been made. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the Foreign Committee and it has also been proposed that we order this proposal to be discussed by the Budget Committee, the Economic Committee, the Constitutional Committee, the Committee on European Affairs, the Education Committee and the Agricultural Committee. Before I announce a break, with priority rights, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u51	Excuse me, Mr President, you may convince me that I did not have a procedural right to do so, but I have suggested that the Foreign Committee be a committee of guarantee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u52	In the event of this hearing, we do not have a guarantee committee. [[Messenger. So you convinced me. Thank you, I'm sorry.]] There. Now I think it's all clear and I am declaring a one-hour break for the meeting of the KSČM. We'll reopen the negotiations at 17.02 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-010-061.u53	Have a good afternoon or early evening. So I will once again begin the discussion of the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I'd like to start by reading the apologies I've been collecting here. The Minister of Interior Lubomír Metnar apologizes from 16 a.m. to the end of the meeting on the 13th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies due to urgent work obligations within the Ministry of the Interior. Mr Petr Beitl apologizes, between 17.15 and 19.00 for personal reasons, the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch apologizes from 16 to 18 o'clock on account of urgent work issues, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček apologizes from 17 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons; Mr Jan Zahradník apologizes from 17 a.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons; Mr Pavel Plzák apologises from 16.30 to the end of the day of the sitting and from the meeting of 15th meeting on 14. 6. at the same time throughout the meeting day for personal reasons, so it is also an apology for tomorrow. Mrs Radka Maxová also apologizes today from 18 o'clock for work reasons and further apologizes until the end of today's day for working reasons, Mr Jan Skopeček. That's how we solved the apology. I'll pick up a meeting before the break. We shall proceed to the vote on the proposals submitted for discussion by the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm gonna go on, 'cause we're gonna vote immediately... Excuse me, I will sign you off one day, sign up again with your voting cards to check on the number of Members present. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and rapporteur for first reading Jan Kubík. I see that the number of Members, plus minus, has settled down, even for moments... but now it's rising. We will take the vote. As the first proposal here, I have a proposal for the proposal to be directed to the Committee on Budgets, so who agrees to the proposal - ah, yes. So first, we will vote on the commandment to the Foreign Committee. Who agrees to be ordered to discuss the proposal to the Foreign Committee? Initiating vote, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 226, 134 Members registered, for 115, versus 1, abstained 18. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. Furthermore, I have a proposal for the proposal to be directed to the Committee on Budgets, so I am asking who agrees with the proposal being directed to the Committee on Budgets. Initiating vote now, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 227, 135 Members registered, for 131, versus 1, abstained 3. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets. Furthermore, we have a motion for a commandment to the Economic Committee, so I ask who agrees that the proposal be ordered to discuss the Economic Committee. Initiating vote, please press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 228, 136 Members registered, for 41, versus 58, abstained 37. The motion was denied. We have another motion on the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee, so I ask who agrees that the proposal be ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee. Initiating vote. Those in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 229, enlisted 139 Members, for 52, versus 67, abstaining from 20. The result was that the proposal was rejected. The next proposal is for the proposal to be directed to the Committee on European Affairs, so I ask who agrees to the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on European Affairs. Initiating vote. Press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 230, 141 Members registered, 54 against 53, 34 abstained, the proposal was rejected. We have two more suggestions. So now we have a proposal for the proposal to be directed to the school committee, so I ask who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the school committee. Initiating vote now. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 231, 141 Members registered, for 14, against 91, abstained 36. The motion was denied. I have here an application for a factual remark from Mr Kalousek, but that was a mistake, I presume? So I'm going to zero you out. Yeah, okay, so I'm gonna smash you. [[17.10 hours]] We have one last proposal here, and that is a proposal for the proposal to be directed to the agricultural committee. So I ask who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the agricultural committee. Initiating vote. Please, now. Who's in? If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. It's vote number 232. 141 Members are enrolled, for 23, against 75, and 43. The motion was denied. This concludes the discussion of this proposal. We will therefore proceed to discuss the next proposal. This is about
