ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u1	The joint debate on points 34 and 36 /house prints 118 and 126/ Mr Jan Bauer, to whom I hereby give the floor, came first to the merged debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u2	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I was glad that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs was here a little while ago, so I felt that she was interested in the agenda. Unfortunately, she's probably run off or she's gone completely. I think it's a shame, because it's a matter of being involved in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. However, I respect that this is a parliamentary proposal, so the absence is possible. With the proposed advance maintenance law, we are in a rather confusing situation, in my opinion. We have two competing patterns on the table. Both are left-wing, and the government of Andrej Babiš took a very careful stand on both. In the first case, this is the Communist proposal, the proposal rejected and gave a negative opinion. In the second case, this is the social democratic proposal, it issued a neutral position, but essentially with the same comments as the first one. I would like to say that this is, of course, a government made up of the ANO Ministers, which, at the same time, applied to the proposal to address the replacement maintenance in negotiations with the Czech Social Democratic Party on the future government and even included it in the proposal for its programming statement. That is why I am very interested in what ANO colleagues really think and whether these amendments will, if we are already beginning to discuss, support or defend them and defend them. I think we all know that these proposals are not new. The Socialist Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová has already promoted zálohový maintenance vehemently. There's no way I blame the left. If I consider many of the proposals of social democracy and communists to be a great populism, this is in no way true of this proposal. I do not really consider this proposal populist because the agenda is really a big problem. The Act on Advanced Maintenance wants to solve a really existing problem, with which a huge number of parents and especially mothers are fighting in the Czech Republic, although, and it must be said that the trend is rather positive, because according to the public numbers available, the number of maintenance debtors has fallen in recent years in the Czech Republic. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the Civil Democratic Party cannot and will not support this law. We believe that, with the best of will, this law will not solve the problem of non-payments of child support, but will, in the long run, make it worse by moving it to the shoulders of the state. Backup maintenance is nothing more than another, a new welfare benefit. It has already been heard here from the mouth of my previous speakers. That is what the authors of this proposal say in the end. Payment of this benefit as compensation for the failure of irresponsible fathers to fulfil their obligations will completely disparage the basic principle that debts should be paid and obligations to be respected. And having a baby is a big commitment. No intervention by the state can and must not replace parental responsibility. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to take a short turn at this point. It wasn't so long ago, at one of the social housing seminars, I heard a gentleman whining in a housing emergency complaining that they were pulling CZK 3,000 off of his already small income for children. And I confess that at this moment, I was in no way abhorrent to this gentleman. Alimony isn't money for thrashing mothers, but it's money for a child. And it is the responsibility of the child concerned to take care of them and provide for them. If someone does not pay maintenance, they simply violate the conditions laid down by law, and in such a case they are to intervene by the courts. Executives are being proposed completely outside the system, virtually in private relations. the relationship between a citizen and a judicial authority. If the state has to deal with something, it's better law enforcement. As long as we know that the maintenance system is failing someone, the rules should be tightened. However, the state is not looking for a way to improve the enforcement of maintenance by private means through legislative action, and it is not doing so at all. The petitioner would only convince me of the benefit of the proposed standard if he could prove that the state would be able to get the funds out of irresponsible parents and extortion them. But this proposal does not contain any new leverage for chronic alimony payers in any way. I would also like to make some specific comments. It must be said that the bill aims to help mothers in a difficult life situation, but does not help everyone equally. The State is to assume responsibility only in cases where the beneficiary's income does not exceed 2.7 times the minimum amount of living under the Life and existential Minimum Act. I confess that I don't know how this line has been set, but as a result, moms will be divided into two groups. One will be entitled to back-up maintenance and the other, in the eyes of the Social Democrats probably the richer ones, will have to make their own arrangements, just as they have done so far. Advance maintenance will certainly be abused, in my opinion, both on the part of those who have and do not pay, and on the part of those who will apply for advance maintenance and prove entitlement to its assignment. I don't see any insurance policy at all. At this point, I would not want to spend the financial costs that the petitioner is counting on, but in any case, even with a more sober estimate, it is CZK 100 million with a minimum return. The Labour Offices make a proposal for a new enforcer without discussing how the current staffing and growing agenda will be prosecuted by the labour authorities. I would therefore recommend visiting some of the employment offices and asking his employees what they actually think about the new role of enforcers. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention that even non-profit organizations who have long engaged in helping mothers in need are critical of the intention, by far not only the Association of Single Families, which operates a successful project of your maintenance and for which the proposed law is logically competition. Personally, however, I would prefer that families with the help of lawyers and executors continue to help these professional working organizations rather than take all responsibility from irresponsible parents and basically call on abuse of the system even those who have behaved very well so far. For these reasons, I submit a motion for rejection. And if we have a merged debate, this concerns both Parliament's press number 118, which is the proposal of the Communist Party and the House's press number 126, which is the proposal of the Czech Social Democratic Party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I would just like to point out that we have merged the debate. But in case someone has a proposal, a shortening, an extension, a return, it is always necessary to indicate exactly to which press the proposal relates. It was not up to you, it is generally a lesson in the debate. Next up, it's logged in... no, wait a minute, I have a de facto remark from Mr. Černohorský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u4	Hello. I just wanted to ask: We are constantly talking about basically moms whose dads don't pay alimony, but they're texting me right now so that, although I don't have the word gender-balanced, I don't like to use it, but to think about even those fathers and not just moms, because there are really a lot of fathers who don't get nutritious from mothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u5	Thank you. So we will continue with proper applications. And it is Mrs Adamová Pekarová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to say a few words, although much has already been said here and I must agree with both the complaints that the rapporteur has presented here in very detail, as well as with her previous speaker, I am referring to Mr Bauer, but I actually agree with the previous speaker with that remark, because it is about 90 to 10 percent and, of course, it is also inpayments, women who do not pay maintenance. However, I will be particularly critical of the proposal for a nutritious substitute, but also of a backup very critical. And the criticisms can actually be beautifully identified in such a right-wing vision of the world, which therefore makes us different from each other, simply by how we perceive the extent to which the state should still assume responsibility from the individual and by how much it should take care of itself and its closest person. I am certainly in favour of the fact that if this is not necessarily necessary, everyone should take care not only of himself but also of his closest ones. And who other than children are the ones we should provide for and feel the greatest responsibility to. So I'm certainly not a fan of taking the burden on the rest of society for the irresponsible, those who also have to provide their children in some way, whether they live in the family complete or incomplete. It certainly cannot be said today that the Czech Republic does not have a social system that forms a safety net. On the contrary, we have a very massive social system. It is more than 25 different social benefits, which are intended for different social situations, the problems facing citizens. And I'm sure we'll already find in them benefits that are intended for even incomplete families, which are intended for those who are in a difficult life situation and need, for example. assistance to cover their housing costs or subsistence allowances. Just a number of doses already exist here and we should be able to focus on them if the reason why someone gets into a difficult life situation is the irresponsibleness of a former partner or partner. So I am certainly not in favour of supplementing the system with another social benefit, so that we swell in this direction and give additional responsibilities to the authorities, hiring other officials who will be responsible for redistributing money. But on the contrary, if we know that there is some error in the current system of granting benefits, these flies, and let's not introduce new ones because of that. Whether this concerns what the rapporteur has mentioned here, i.e. the unpaid maintenance calculated as the income paid, and therefore the applicant does not comply with the levy, the obligation it has, virtually. the conditions which are laid down and which therefore limit it in order to qualify for the benefit in question, regardless of whether it is any of them. In fact, the submitters themselves acknowledge that the law is currently very low. This is, let's say, a right-wing vision on this issue, that we here are obliged to ensure the functioning of the state, such a rule of law and such the functioning of the enforcement of justice in our country, that it will not be necessary to put out those fires that are just in the form of a new levy, and by sealing these holes, but rather to address the cause and that is the very low enforcement. Of course, it doesn't move from week to week or month to month, it's a long-term process. And I'm sure we've had a lot to do in this regard. On the other hand, there is really no new initiative coming from the petitioners that would lead to better enforcement. On the contrary - at least for the advance maintenance, for the second proposal - the petitioners did not even start to deal with it, so actually says that 10 percent, which is really trivial, 10 percent is really very little, will eventually succeed. And I'm skeptical of whether even the 10 percent is real, because I remember the debate very well during the last parliamentary term over this bill that came from the government at the time. And then in the original proposal, there was even only 5%, which seems more realistic to me. It was only gradually adjusted by the petitioners to 10 per cent. So the plaintiffs themselves see the main problem that we have here. And I'm in line with this, that it's law enforcement. Let's focus on that. It is also a prevention that we could include here, the prevention of not paying maintenance itself, because unfortunately in some cases, and it is not quite rare, the problem is the very beginning of the divorce proceedings, when the above alimony is a big deal between the two partners, the formers at that time or the divorcing, and they deal through the nonpayment of maintenance, some unfortunately also accounts with the former partner, even though of course the child is the most damaged. But if we want to do something in this regard, there are also tools that prove themselves, for example. so-called Cochemian practice, which is already used in some courts in the Czech Republic, and it turns out that it is a really good means for the divorce proceedings to have as little impact on the child as possible, which should be our first concern, and that is also one of the ways to avoid the problem of dealing with bills in the future through the failure to pay maintenance. The next thing we can agree on is a quicker discussion of such cases, be it the custody procedure itself, but also subsequently the maintenance recovery cases, because I really think that this issue here should be followed as a priority in the courts. Strengthen the courts that are dedicated to this, strengthen both staffed and able judges, for example, together with the assistants I need to do so, really focus on the issue with priority, etc. So a whole series of things that should be dealt with on the issue of the Justice Department, that is, in this part, and certainly a whole series of things that could be about prevention. I will no longer mention the problems that have been mentioned here. I won't even deal with the numbers, the amounts. I just think that irresponsible parents should not be taken to account for their responsibilities by putting the burden on all the others who are responsible, and that we should concentrate on helping those children, which is certainly our concern, precisely in the area of law enforcement. I therefore believe that introducing a new social benefit into our rather massive social system is not necessary. Thank you for your attention and I am also joining the motion to reject both proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u7	Well, thank you. Good evening, everyone. And now I'd like to ask Mrs Šafránková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of backup maintenance, I see a real problem that affects a number of mothers. There are many reasons for this problem. First of all, it's the decline of the family. It is now openly presented as an outdated social unit and has no proper support from the state. The second reason is often the excessive amount of maintenance and, last but not least, it is, of course, the weak position of those who want to claim their rights. If we add this up, the social problem of many mothers, whose victims are mainly children, arises and deepens. Our first-reading movement will support legislative proposals to address this situation. At the same time, we must make it clear that we are only removing the result and not the cause. We must also begin to address the above causes of this situation. It is very important that the result of our work is a legislative regulation that does not relieve the obligations of those who do not pay and does not carry their debts to the state. We also have to say that the state will be faster, more rigorous and more successful in enforcing and helping parents for a temporary period of time. It will only help to address the social crisis and will not carry debts out of irresponsibleness to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u9	Well, thank you, too. I have a note here that I do not know if it has been read, so Mr Benešík apologizes to us from 17 o'clock to the end of the day for business reasons. And I'll ask Mrs. Golasowská. The MP isn't here, so I'm gonna move her to the end. So please, Mrs Richterová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, there are many long speeches today for backup and replacement maintenance. For the pirát, I think I can be very brief. We support the debate on this issue. Even from personal experience between us, we know that this is a burning thing, that not only does it affect children, but also in a huge way, the relationship between the two former partners, between the one who is constantly asking for payment and is in great distress, and the other who may not have, has resigned to the fact that it can be dealt with in some way, and perhaps some adjustment could also help to make these relationships more correct. However, and this is the big question mark, we do not have the relevant data in the backgrounds that we have received, the numbers to what is the situation where the actually non-payment of maintenance hangs in some intermediate space, and we would need at least some more specific quantification for our decision. One more comment. The Ministry of Justice has prepared a rather extensive analysis in which the advance maintenance is also mentioned, and there is no such analysis of the number. So I would, of course, send it as a specific question to the Ministry, but I would appeal to have the fullest evidence before reading the second reading regarding the real need and real impact. Otherwise, of course, the issue is complex and important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u11	I, too, thank you, and now please Mr Dolínek, Mr Jurečka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u12	Good afternoon. No doubt in this area there is no solution about this ideal. Surely there are arguments that say why this law or reject these two proposals, and it may seem rational. But let's listen carefully to what we heard there: it should be improved, it should be introduced, the courts should do it, the ministry should do it, and it still should be. It's not there: I'm coming here and I'm saying, that's how it's gonna change, that's how it's gonna make it easier for the parent, so it's gonna be a little bit more handy. Here we heard two performances on how it would be ideal, but we're not in that state. After all, this nourishment is not an instrument of parental dispute among themselves. That's where the target is, the recipient is supposed to be the child, and we're here brazenly listening to someone say it could be solved. But there's nothing else to worry about here. The parent is the one who deals with where to take to school in nature, to school in nature, to books, to admission to the cinema where to pay so that the child can go somewhere with his friends for the summer camp. And he's supposed to go to work, get a lawyer into all this, go to court, and there's a new advice, go to see if he's getting all the benefits right, or if he can get more benefits somewhere. That's another innovation board here. Still, parents, besides all that, walk and get another shot. And shouldn't the parent be with the child? The child who is often in an incomplete family? Who needs the parent all the more because he doesn't often have both parents at home? I feel that these solutions are not ideal, but it brings some kind of proposal, it brings concrete steps. And, of course, the state must not resign from paying for something and it will not be enforced. But touch your conscience when you're talking to your friends, relatives, when they're having a dispute with someone, your neighbor about land, your driveway, or the state about not paying the tax, what's the first person to deal with? A feud with a neighbor, or the fact that he doesn't want to owe the state anything? I don't think anyone wants to owe the state. That is why I think that this instrument could be effective and could help. Please put it on second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u13	I, too, thank you, and now I ask Mr Jurečka to prepare Mrs Golasowská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u14	Good evening. I will try to be really brief in terms of time and a long discussion. We discussed backup maintenance a lot within the last government coalition. We had several discussions about this at the Coalition Councils. I am aware that many things are said here from many sides, and each has some part of the truth. And, of course, we can ask why today's system, when the court decides, is not so well set up that it really is effective in helping out the maintenance of the defaults or the defaults. That's for discussion, of course. However, I think it is also up to us to discuss whether the current system should in some way be innovative. And I personally have to say that after a discussion with us at the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club, we discussed whether this proposal would be appropriate or to release these proposals for second reading and, as part of the discussion on committees, try to correct the imperfections that have been mentioned here and try to help parents and children who are in a difficult situation. The said solution through individual doses can be a path, but it can also be a road of neck and neck. So let's try to make sure that the state really goes out to these parents and, above all, children in this difficult situation that is here today for many of them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u15	Thank you, too. Mrs Golasowská is duly excused. I'm sorry I challenged her, so she won't be present anymore. That is why we have exhausted the debate. I'm asking if he's still... Mr. MP. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say on behalf of the Mayors and Independents' Club that backed up maintenance, this press, we encourage the second reading to open a debate on a really painful issue, which is that the courts are slower than we would like, many families do not work as we would like, and the negative effect is affecting the most vulnerable in our society. I think that the demonstration of society's maturity is that it is it that can take care of them, and it is one of the best money invested. And it's not like they're all folding or the responsible ones are laying on those who aren't so responsible at the time. It is beneficial for the whole of society, because the habits and stereotypes and trust in society itself are created in those children, or vice versa, that trust is undermined and it gets to the edge or to the outside. So thank you for your attention, and for the Mayors, I say that we will be willing to support it for second reading and look forward to discussing it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u17	Thank you, Mr Farský, and I have received a report from Mr Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Of course, I support this proposal, and I mean not only the backed-up maintenance that I signed, but also the replacement maintenance that I did not sign. It is a KSČM proposal, but I think that both of these prints are worth discussing definitely on the Social Committee, and I suggest, or I think that we should also discuss them in the Constitutional Legal Committee. Marek Benda frowns at me, but it's true. It is a matter which, of course, also concerns the judiciary, family law, civil law. This means, I think, that it belongs, through Vice-President Marek Benda, to the Constitutional Legal Committee. [[17.50 hours]] Anyway, I would like to respond to what the rapporteur said. I know she's not a fan of the Institute of Substitute Maintenance or Advanced Maintenance or any maintenance that the state should pay in some way, but she basically said what the problem was in her performance at the beginning, but she didn't react to who was responsible. She said it's a system problem, basically we're the legislators who somehow create the system. And the head of the system, which concerns justice, speed of justice, justice, law enforcement, enforcement of claims, enforcement of final decisions, final judgments, is the Minister of Justice. And the Minister of Justice is a person who, unfortunately, isn't here today, I think he should be here because that's the thing that concerns justice, law and other things. I apologise through the Vice-President to the rapporteur, but I do not think that firstly - I am sure it will be confirmed by my colleague Aulická - the seizure of driving licences was the Minister's proposal. I remember it was a parliamentary proposal that he may have supported as Minister, but it was not the Minister's proposal. Furthermore, the rapporteur, through the Vice-President, you spoke of an alternative or backed-up maintenance institute as if only those in prison were concerned. You kept saying electronic bracelets, etc. I mean, those 180,000 families with children, they're not like 90 percent of the guys and 10 percent of the women in prison. Please, let's not confuse concepts with impressions. Most of these men and women are normally free. Then we wouldn't have to confiscate the driver's licenses you were talking about, how it's a right and great institution. The poodle core and the vicious dog and other things are completely different. So unfortunately I blame it - and now I don't just want to talk about the current Minister of Justice, because this is a matter that has been a problem for many, many, many years, even under the governments of the ČSSD, I take it upon myself, I want to be fair, and there should be something done. That means yes, I'm not gonna be a friend of some backed-up maintenance or replacement maintenance until the system works, when mothers and children don't have to wait a few years for this guy to pay them at least a few thousand, because the system doesn't work and the state just can't get it out of those men and women. So when the system works, then no backed-up maintenance will be necessary. I therefore ask once again, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, to support both the backed-up maintenance and the replacement maintenance on the Social Committee. I think that although both proposals differ parametrically, they are heading towards the same thing. I suggest, even though I have to do it again, that both press go to the constitutionally legal committee, even though the chairman of the constitutionally legal committee does not look at me quite nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u19	Thank you, too. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As a petitioner, I wanted to save for the end or for the final words, but let me speak in this discussion. I'm terribly sorry that we're still playing left-handed and right-handed here, or staring right-handed, whether it's right-handed or left-handed, and whoever's giving it to us isn't gonna make it. I understand that the representatives of the ODS and the representatives of the TOP 09 have some perspective, opinion, simply this proposal does not suit them, sees another possible tool, other possible systems, but don't be mad at me, we have not yet really noticed that you have come up with something so crucial that could help in this area. That's one thing. Perhaps a little argument by your means, Mr President, on the rapporteur. She spoke here about Minister Pelikán, who, in the past, or in the last parliamentary term, came up with specific and quite fundamental instruments or changes that helped to help the maintenance to recover. I would like the rapporteur to tell us exactly what they were like. As far as I know, my colleague Zdeněk Ondráček was able to accept - and this was a parliamentary proposal across the political spectrum supported - only what we gave from our club, and my colleague Zdeněk Ondráček was the promoter, and it was essential that, on the basis of an unproven unpaid maintenance, a driver's license can be withdrawn not only until 18 years of age, but until 26 years of age. And forgive me, I remember it was probably the only proposal that was really supported across the political spectrum, but I didn't notice anything from Minister Pelikán. I would perhaps just say when it is now counted or not counted in the income of the specified maintenance. The problem is that each employment office or branch has a slightly different approach. Some - mostly moms, but you're right that they're daddies too, and that's why I always say they're singles - when they come to the employment office with a social benefit, we won't say what system, etc., so some authorities want them to show that they're trying to recover from mandatory unpaid maintenance. And some of them just need to write an honest statement that they don't really get these benefits. That is what I think needs to be united in this position as well. Yes, we can talk about the fact that, specifically in the alternative maintenance, it is quite misleading in any way, which is why we want both of us to go through the first reading and talk about it on the Social Committee, or perhaps on the board of the Constitutional Legal Committee. Enforcement of law in the Czech Republic. Everyone who got off here admits it's almost zero. We are talking about what I remember in the last parliamentary term, but show me who came up with the essential conditions to make it better. Nobody. The fact that our people who are locked Pelikán may have mentioned the last number of 60 percent, in any case it is not sufficient that these closed people, who are also for property damage and are part of this non-payment of maintenance in a large percentage, are not, in some way, automatically forced to take up employment, and more or less, on the other hand, we can say that this may be the fault of the Ministry of Justice itself, which has been quite lax for some time. Legislative implications for the Labour Office. Yes, I understand that, I am aware of the situation at the employment office, we have been discussing this in the long term also in the Committee on Social Policy, but of course also with the Ministry of Labour itself, but don't be mad at me, there have been a lot of amendments or government proposals adopted, yes, when it was a government draft, so the implications for personnel were addressed, but show me when the parliamentary proposal or amendment addressed the impact on employees as well. And I must say that we have been addressing the problems of employees at the employment offices for a long time, and so far, not one government has been able to take action to improve this. I would like to stress that elsewhere in the European Union, but also in other countries, it is accepted in some way as a substitute or backed-up maintenance, it is nothing new and the Czech Republic would not be excluded if this benefit or this assistance were accepted into legislation. Let me still respond to the Cochemian practice. Yes, we have to say that we are happy that Cochemian practice is beginning to appear quite to a large extent, although it is still beginning, but in individual regions it is actually used at individual district courts and we are de facto saying that perhaps in Most it works, but in Teplice next door, they hardly know what it is, and therefore the impact, or the help is not yet as pronounced as it might be. I would also like to say that it is mainly dealt with during a divorce hearing, but, for example, illegitimate couples - and born children in an illegitimate couple today are over 46 percent, and I think that is really not a small percentage. I ask you once again to discuss this. I am glad that there are indications from other political parties or movements that this needs to be discussed, and I think that committees, whether the Social or Constitutional Committee, if approved, are probably the most appropriate ground where we can talk about this matter. I would just like to point out that we are primarily concerned about children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-019-902.u21	I thank you, too, and if no one calls for this merged debate any more - it does not seem so - then I would end it and move on to the final words. In principle, I am now reopening the point.
