ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-002-013.u1	13. Proposal for Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue the Constitutional Act on the National referendum and to amend the Constitution of the Czech Republic /German press 35/ - first reading In the general debate, both the proposal for a return to completion and the proposal for a refusal was made. Under the Rules of Procedure, we will first vote on the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. He was filed on 27 February at the 7th meeting by Vice-President Pikal. I hope we all know what we're voting on. About the press, 35. Yes. I'll check you out. I'm gonna ask you to rejoin. To be sure, we will be voting at this point in paragraph 13 on the Houses of the Press 35, the SPD MEPs' proposal, and we are voting on the return of the applicant for completion. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting order number 25, registered 155, for 58, against 31. The motion to return was not accepted. We will now vote on the motion to reject the proposal tabled on 26 June at the 16th session by Mr Dominik Feri. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of rejecting this proposal. Who's against it? Voting order number 26, registered 156, for 63, versus 30. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else suggest a committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. So we're going to vote on the guarantee committee. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the proposal that the Guarantee Committee be the constitutionally-legal committee for this press. Who's against it? Voting order number 27, registered 158, for 149, versus 8. This proposal was adopted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose ordering the next committee to be consulted. I ask if there is a motion for a commandment to a committee other than constitutional law. I don't see anyone. That is why we have exhausted all the votes on this point. Thank you. I'm ending the first reading of press 35. Now, point 14.
