ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-004-022.u1	22. Members Jana Pastuchová's proposal, Válková Válkova, Radka Maxová, Patrik Nacher, David Kasal, Karel Rais, Rostislav Vyzula, Martin Kolovratník and Jaroslav Bžoch on the issue of the Act amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 89/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 89/1. I ask that Mrs Jana Pastuchová make a proposal for the appellants. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-004-022.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, let me introduce you to the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Assistance in Material Need, which we have dealt with several times in the last parliamentary term. The aim of my proposal is to adjust the compulsory method of payment of the subsistence allowance for beneficiaries who receive it for more than six months in the last 12 months by means of vouchers authorising the purchase of goods at a specified value, inserted into Act No. 111/2006 Sb. Act No. 98/2017 Sb. The measure has been effective since June 2017, but it has not entered into practice until December 2017, when it has proved problematic in some respects. The introduction of vouchers has been negatively affected by certain vulnerable groups of beneficiaries of the subsistence allowance and has brought about some practical problems. These relate mainly to people using health or social services, where they have a problem with food cover and basic needs in these facilities. Part of the dose in the form of vouchers cannot be used in certain establishments. Every month it is necessary to solve the way in which vouchers are provided to clients who are hospitalized in or about health care institutions. cared for in social services. It also proved to be unnecessarily demanding payment of part of the subsistence allowance by means of vouchers in a situation where the amount of the benefit is low. In this case, the payment of vouchers to the beneficiary is more expensive than the amount of the benefit paid. The proposed amendment to the Physical Emergency Assistance Act therefore defines vulnerable groups of persons who will not be subject to a legal obligation to pay at least 35 per cent and not more than 65 per cent of the allowance granted in the form of a voucher authorising the purchase of goods, and is specifically the beneficiary who is provided with social services, health care is provided in the healthcare facility for the whole calendar month, the final decision of the court would limit their legality and the vouchers would not, according to the proposal, concern cases where the reasons are appropriate for special consideration, giving the Office the possibility of taking into account further situations where the granting of part of the allowance would not result in the fulfilment of its purpose. At the same time, the vouchers will not concern beneficiaries where the amount of the subsistence allowance does not exceed CZK 500. [[11.50 hours]] This amendment also contains a proposal to simplify the procedure in cases where the Labour Office decides in administrative proceedings to change the way benefits are paid so that changes in the absence of part of the subsistence allowance can occur as quickly as possible. This legislation will have no economic impact on state and other public budgets, as no additional costs will arise with this regulation. On the contrary, the administrative burden of the labour offices will be reduced. Taking effect shall be proposed as soon as possible, with transitional provisions providing sufficient room for the application of the new adaptation. As you have also noticed in today's programme, I would like to say, which you know is that the Chamber of Deputies has been presented with a similar draft amendment to the law, press 99, which is based on the recommendation of the National Council of Disabilities and extends the number of exceptions to other groups of people. I'm not gonna read it here. I'm sure you've read it. However, I would like to point out that, although this proposal extends the number of exceptions, it does not release the office of employment to decide who should and who should not be concerned with the vouchers. Moreover, the area exceptions mentioned here could pose another problem in that there will be ten groups listed here and the eleven will be forgotten and we will be there when we were now. I think that the individual situation of each individual should be ignored. I guess that's it for me. I would just add that the survey of Czech residents to provide benefits in the form of vouchers is positive. I will just read one quote: "The opinion of the Czech public on the abuse of social benefits is clear. Most people are bothered by it, they want the government to do something about it, and they see the payment of a portion of the benefits in vouchers instead of money as a possible solution." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-004-022.u3	I thank the appellant and now, I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-004-022.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an amendment to the Law on material distress, which has actually been adopted in the past period, and we are now trying to correct the legislative error that was de facto adopted in the last parliamentary term. This proposal under House press 89 is from the workshop of the ANO member club, which is trying to correct - we can actually talk about our legislative error - and on the basis of the great criticism that comes from the municipalities, from the National Council of Disabilities and Clients. The unspecified introduction of an institution's obligation to help in a material need to pay a living allowance instead of money through vouchers justifying the purchase of goods at a fixed value brings problems, disputes in some situations, and we can speak that in some cases it is, of course, inefficient. The problems relate mainly to people using health or social services, where they have a problem to pay food and essential needs in these establishments, because they have part of the benefit in the form of vouchers that cannot be used in certain establishments. Technical problems and inefficient spending brings work with these prizes as well as at the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic and entrusted municipalities, especially in custody and monthly billing, and maybe we can also talk about a small network of stores providing these services, etc., but at the same time we are talking about the fact that these are issues, for example, within labour offices, when they have done very well and try to meet the whole system. The Government has given its consent to this amendment. The intention of the original proposal was to deal quickly with the long unsolved problem of abuse of social benefits, which are not used precisely to purchase food, sanitation, medicines, clothing, school supplies, etc. and for the needs of children and adults included in the social assistance system in material distress. Really, I'm saying that drug abuse is really big. The current legal provision shall not apply exclusively in cases where the amount of the subsistence allowance does not exceed CZK 500 and in cases where the beneficiaries are provided with residence services, social services or are provided with health care in the healthcare facility for the whole calendar month, or where the final decision of the court is limited to their own right or in cases where the reasons for special consideration are concerned. However, the proposal does not address all the problems of practice again. Let me just say that I would just say in the opening words of the appellant that it is not appropriate for me now to comment on the proposal under paragraph 23 under House press 99, and I think that this should be said only in the next general debate. Mr Vice-President, allow me to propose a merger of the debate of both prints, i.e. paragraph 22 and paragraph 23. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-004-022.u5	Thank you for the proposal to merge the debate. Before I open up the general debate, we would vote on whether we agree to merge the debate with the points so that I can have it exactly, 22 and 23 respectively. I'm gonna sing. [[From the diaper: The point has to be interrupted.]] I was just discussing the legislation, asking if I had it first... I just asked about it, and now I've been on the phone to make it clear. I've got it marked like this. Okay, I'll do as you mean. I just asked the organizational department on the phone, once again, about the right procedure. Okay. At this point, I'm going to interrupt the point, and now I'm going to open the next point... [[From the diaper: It has to be voted on.]] So I am interrupting this point, and I propose that we vote on the merger of the debate on paragraphs 22 and 23. We will take the vote. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of merging the debate, press the button, raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button, raise your hand. Voting number 62, 160 Members registered, for 140, versus zero, abstained from 20. This proposal was adopted. So I'd like to open a point here.
