ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 178/2005 Coll., on the abolition of the National Property Fund of the Czech Republic and on the powers of the Ministry of Finance in the privatisation of the Czech Republic's assets (the Act on the abolition of the National Property Fund), as amended, and some other related laws (the House Press 130/4/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as House press 130/5. I welcome Senator Ladislav Kos among us. I ask that the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová speak for the plaintiffs for the Senate resolution on the rejection of this bill. Please, Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come before you with a proposal for an amendment to Act No. 178/2005 Coll., on the abolition of the National Property Fund of the Czech Republic. It is the only amendment whose aim is to increase transparency in the management of public funds and, as a result, to strengthen the role of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in deciding on financial flows in the order of a billion crowns a year. On the contrary, the amendment is not in any way a dissolution of funds, just as it is not intended to obtain any new source of income for the Government or the Ministry of Finance or any other similar rumours, on the contrary, while, in keeping with the current situation, the Minister of Finance and the Government would have an unlimited opportunity completely outside the framework of the Chamber of Deputies approved by the State Budget to transfer funds to a wide range of different priorities, whether housing needs, industrial zones or transport. The proposed amendment provides for an obligation to include decisions on these funds already in the preparation of the state budget itself and to strictly bind them with the subsequently approved Act on the State Budget and its Chamber of Deputies approved by the form. So I will now like to put this proposal in the strictly necessary range of contexts, and I believe that I will be able to explain why this amendment is needed. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] We want to amend the law by which the National Property Fund of the Czech Republic has been abolished since 1 January 2006 and the Ministry of Finance has taken over its activities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u3	Well, I'd like to ask for some peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u4	Here, a special account and a special record was set up for the management of assets and the financing of liabilities, which are kept separate from the State budget, in order to ensure that the proceeds of the privatised assets serve to cover precisely the obligations of the State which were linked to privatisation. This means, in particular, the liquidation of the environmental damage which the State has committed itself to before privatisation. However, from the very beginning, the law also allowed use for other non-privatisation purposes. And it was these other non-privatisational purposes that, over time, became the main expenditure titles paid out of this special account, and they were added to them by the successive amendments to the law by others and others. Thus, numerous government projects were often covered from privatization sources. For example, in 2007, the government invested from this account in an area unrelated to privatisation, in particular the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, 21 billion. The crown, a year later it was even 34 billion. Crowns. Since 2012, the possibility of transferring funds from the proceeds of privatisation to the State budget has been enacted. It is often stated in this context that these funds were intended to cover the pension account deficit. However, it should be noted that, when the funds are transferred to the budget, the revenue of the state budget becomes and is to be indistinguishable from other revenue of the budget - typically taxes. Individual revenue from the state budget, as we all know, doesn't have bows. Since 2012, an average of 10 billion have been transferred to the State budget. annual, while maintaining a safe balance to cover privatisation expenses, in particular the most important ecology. And so it was every year until 2018. The only condition that this transfer must be met is the negative balance of the pension system - not the account, we have no account - of the pension system, i.e. that the income collected in a given year on social insurance is lower than the funds paid for pensions. The technical condition that did not occur in 2018 because after many years the pension system found itself in surplus. And it's probably the next year. [[15.30 hours]] The Ministry of Finance, as a responsible economic operator, has decided to address this absurd situation with a simple and logical amendment that will facilitate the transfer of money from one state pocket to another, from privatization accounts to the state budget. At the same time, the state will have no reason to accumulate money in privatization accounts in case their resources become weaker, because the amendment also regulates the opposite eventuality. If privatization accounts did not provide enough funding for privatisation commitments, the money would instead be transferred from the state budget. The current regulation does not allow this. It is clear that a number of arguments that sound against the proposed amendment are purposeful and misleading. I'd like to deal with the most insidious ones right now. One. It was never the purpose of special privatisation accounts to make a reserve for worse times. The one where he thinks that was supposed to be heard in 2002 when income was almost 130 billion, or in 2005 when it was 110 billion, or 40 billion of 2008 was not enough. To speak today, when these revenues are essentially limited to one year from the year of the declining dividend of ČEZ and account for about one tenth of the revenue from 2002 to 2005 and not even half of 2008, the argument about the state's reserves is drawn to the hair. Two. The financing of the State's environmental commitments is not at risk. In the current wording of the Act, there is no insurance policy to prevent any available funds in special accounts from being transferred, for example, to the preparation of industrial zones, transport infrastructure or housing development. That's purely up to the government's decision, because the bill is outside the bill on the state budget. There wouldn't be a crown left in ecology. However, the proposed amendment cuts industrial zones or industrial infrastructure as expenditure titles and leaves basically only environmental commitments, reclamation and what is directly linked to privatisation. Moreover, last year's resolution obliges the government to provide the Minister of Finance with at least CZK 4.5 billion per year in ecology. How will the Minister ensure that? It's easier to just leave them in those accounts! And if something unpredictable happens, such as losing in a privatization dispute, we inherited such things, there is a new introduction of the possibility of adding missing funds from the state budget. Therefore, there is no dispute that compliance with environmental commitments is dealt with much better by the proposed amendment than before. Three. It's not an accounting trick to improve the balance. The main objective of the proposed amendment is to ensure that funds that are not used to cover privatisation expenses do not remain inactive in the account but can be used meaningfully for investment or social needs according to the current state of the economy. This process will be transparent and controllable as it will be subject to standard processes applied in the establishment of the state budget. In conclusion, allow me a brief summary. The amendment is intended to eliminate all special purpose government expenditures and leave only expenditure titles related to privatisation commitments, which will thus regain the priority of funding. I stress that it is currently not possible to cover privatisation costs from any other sources. At the same time, the amendment will enable efficient and transparent use of free funds. The effectiveness of the amendment is expected to be 1 January 2019. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u5	Thank you to Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová and we will continue our afternoon negotiations. I will now ask Senator Ladislav Kos to take the floor. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u6	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, honourable Members, I am not here to argue with the arguments put forward by the Minister here in defence of the amendment to this Act on the abolition of the National Property Fund, as I did in the Senate, which I think will be different, and I would just conservatively introduce you to the negotiation of this Act in the Senate. Just briefly. In fact, the amendment to the Act removes a large part of the taxative list of possibilities of using the funds of the privatisation fund, in addition to the remuneration associated with the removal of environmental damage to privatised enterprises and the reimbursement of costs of repairing damage caused to the environment by mining minerals and the revitalization of the territories concerned. The possibility of transferring the funds of the privatisation fund to the state budget and using them in any chapter of the privatisation fund is introduced and, on the contrary, the possibility of transferring funds from the state budget to that fund is newly introduced. The bill was discussed at the Senate plenary on 15. 11. with the result of the vote: to reject the bill - with 69 senators, 51 were for rejection, 10 opposed and 8 abstained. The main reasons which led to the rejection and which fell both in committee and in plenary, and most of the speakers were requested that the Fund should be primarily used to cover the State's commitments to eliminate environmental damage, which in order in the contracts of about CZK 100 billion, and not to make funds available from this fund into the state budget. On the contrary, the Ministry of Finance should ensure sufficient resources in the fund and, in particular, speedy bailouts so that these commitments are promptly removed, because environmental commitments, or contracts for their removal, are already bearded in some cases and last for 25 years. The senators presented examples from their regions, where the remediation of the affected sites extends for a very long time and the Ministry of Finance is very lax about it. There were also doubts as to whether this amendment was motivated by efforts...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u7	I understand, Senator. We will wait a little while longer for those who are discussing a subject other than the abolition of the National Property Fund in the last amendment to move their discussions into the foyer and have the senator present a state or outcome in a dignified environment. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u8	Thank you. There were also doubts as to whether this amendment was motivated by a real effort to make economic use of the funds deposited in the privatisation fund or simply by an effort to strengthen the state budget, as has been said here. As a result of the fact that the fund has a surplus pension account, 34 billion have actually accumulated and, of course, it is a very tempting bite to use these funds in the state budget and finance actions such as fare discounts and the like. So that was another objection. And then there were such proposals that this privatization fund should be conducted in a similar mode, such as the atomic fund, where money is spent to liquidate nuclear power plants after their lifetime, and if the fund should be used for something, then to finance basic measures such as climate change measures, carbon footprint reduction or energy security solutions. So it was about a cross-section of what happened in the Senate hearing, and, as I was saying, 51 out of 69 senators present agreed to a motion to dismiss. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u9	I thank Senator Ladislav Kos and will now ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Budget Committee, Petr Vrána, to comment on the Senate report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a brief recap. Resolution of the Senate on the bill amending Act No. 178/2005 Coll., on the abolition of the National Property Fund of the Czech Republic and on the powers of the Ministry of Finance in privatisation of the property of the Czech Republic, as amended, and some other related laws, were delivered to the House and distributed to Members on 16. 11. 2018 as House Press 130/5. [[Act abolishing the National Property Fund]] By his 32nd resolution from the second meeting held on 15 November 2018, the Senate rejected the bill and the grounds for refusal were described by Senator Kos. For the reasons stated by Minister Schillerová, which I would merely repeat at the moment, I recommend that you revote the Senate's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u11	Thank you, rapporteur Petr Vrán, and I am opening up a debate in which I am the first to sign up with the priority right of Vice-President Tomio Okamura. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, according to Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, the amendment to the Act is intended to limit the number of expenditure titles to which funds can be drawn from special privatisation accounts. It is further intended to allow the transfer of money from these accounts to the state budget, but also to special accounts from the budget, if necessary to cover legal expenses. Interestingly, the same Ministry of Finance, which runs the government movement YES and the Minister, pointed out the problems when the Ministry of Finance, in its report on the National Property Fund, stated that - I quote: "In the event of an unexpected revenue loss, there will not be enough assets in the privatisation fund to cover all liabilities and financial requirements." So sucking the last amount of money out of this fund in this situation is really irresponsible. Of course, the true purpose of the amendment is elsewhere, what the government is presenting here. At the end of this February, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš said that the amendment to the National Property Fund Act could free up about 21 billion. The CZK that the government wants to use for the planned increase in pensions. The National Property Fund owned and sold assets in the order of several hundred billion. The SPD supports raising pensions, but let us look specifically at what is going on in this case. And just to remind you, even with the votes of the SPD Members, pensions are increasing. But back to the National Property Fund. In 2016, he still had 96 billion in his account. He's only 22 billion this year. Where's the money? Where's the managed property? It is owned by foreign companies or Czech oligarchs, who often stomped out the Czech state. Fund money was originally to be used to reform pensions. And I ask, where is the reform? Where's the money? There's nothing. Even the government of YES and ČSSD did not submit any pension reform in five years of common government. The Prime Minister likes the SPD program. And one of our ideas, which he's been publicly proclaiming lately, is that it was a mistake when the state sold its property cheaply. The Prime Minister also wanted to run the state as a successful firm. So let's imagine that Agrofert has 22 billion free. Not for a second does any of us think that the Prime Minister would hand out this money on paydays. Any manager would immediately invest free money in a project that will generate further profits in the future. We have extremely low pensions compared to the whole of Europe and we do not know where to take money from them. And all we know is that pensions cannot be increased by increasing tax burdens and levies. They're already at the top of their load limit. The only way is to return to a proven multi-source financing model, which was paid not only for socialism, but, oddly enough, it is also practiced by Western states and Western governments, i.e. that states have shares in profitable companies, and instead of rising taxes, they have profits from corporate dividends. The Prime Minister agreed to invest BMW in the Czech Republic, which he presented for success, but the reality is that for a bribe of half a billion for a company that has billions of net profits. That this is an operation. A smart manager would take a few billion and not give it as a gift, but invest it in equity. Maybe it's BMW or other profitable automakers. And as a co-owner, he could then be involved in strategic decisions and build polygons in the Czech Republic even without bribes, and he would still have guaranteed a long-term income that is so tragically lacking in pensions. Just for illustration. For example, Porsche owns, among other things, the state of Lower Saxony and the state of Qatar. In the French PSA Group, owned by Peugeot, Citroën, the French State has a share. And I could go on like this. I don't think anyone will consider these countries communist. On the contrary, they behave very capitalistically. They invest in something that brings them money, and then they can lower taxes on their citizens, and, on the other hand, they can pay citizens, for example, pensions, for this dividend money. If we want to ensure a constantly growing dignified pension, we must not spend money on a one-time basis. Even before the elections, as has become a bad custom for all governments, but we must invest them so that the revenue of the state will grow without the need to increase taxes, social contributions or increase the retirement age. And, as I have already said, the Ministry of Finance itself has highlighted the problems. We cannot support the proposed law for these fundamental reasons alone. In this context, we call on the government to start looking for more resources for revenue in the state register, because the economic recession is approaching and we do not really have any more financial reserves. We don't want pension payments at risk next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u13	Thank you, Mr Tomie Okamur. Before we continue the debate, the President of the Chamber of Deputies received an apology from the Minister of Transport, Dan Ťok, from 16.40. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u14	Thank you for the floor. Allow me, too, to comment on this amendment to the bill returned by the Senate. As has already been said, money from the privatisation account can be used for the remediation of environmental damage, the settlement of the pension system deficit or the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure etc. That's only three cases. And now I'm going to take the individual points in a row. With regard to environmental damage and remediation, the government, as I noted in the media, pointed out that a total of 140 billion will have to be paid for these environmental damage. and allegedly there are already 325 contracts for the disposal of environmental damage. So I don't see any reason to move the money without any ties to the state budget, and I need to leave it in the next privatization account. The second point is - in the case of the pension system deficit, these funds can be used. We currently have a surplus pension system. This is because the economy is going well. But the signals clearly show that we are now at the top of the economy and that there will certainly be a decline in the economy both in the Czech Republic and in Europe, which, of course, means a fall in income, even within the pension system. And then it's good to make reserves just to pay your pensions. The third point is the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. We all know, and we're calling to make a lot of investments. But we also know that the construction market is currently overheated, that you can barely get a company to build one or more transport or other buildings. That is why I think it is also good to have this reserve for a time when people will be so-called people, when companies and economies will not be so successful. And it is important that investment and investment funds are stable in both good times and in economic downturns, regardless of the fact that they are now up to one third more expensive than before. [[15.50 hours]] I have noted here statements that it is a shame that this money is lying unnecessarily in a privatization account. Consider an example from Germany. There is also money on accounts as a reserve for a time worse. Under the law, their use. And no one is questioning that these reserves are created precisely for economic downturn times and pensions. So if it lies in vain, in quotation marks, in Germany, I think, because we always take Germany as a model that this money could lie in quotation marks unnecessarily on our privatization accounts. These are just a few of the reasons I have set out to tell you that the opinion of the Mayors and Independents Club is negative in this case and we will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Now, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Skopeček will prepare himself. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two fundamental problems with this government bill. First, and I stress that the smaller one is the possibility of governments improving their economic results. It's just really there today, the moment the government wants the result to look the way she would have imagined, they're gonna put some money in this fund. I admit that for next year, the government has included these revenue directly into the state budget, which is, of course, correct. However, it does not guarantee that the revenue will ultimately correspond exactly to the expectations of the state budget, and it will not guarantee any movements during that year or in the years to come. But that's the little problem. The more serious problem with this proposal is that the money that, let's say, has a one-time character is used as a normal income of the state budget. That money from companies, which logically earn significantly more during the economic boom period, is supposed to become a normal income of the state budget. So, at the time of the crisis, compared to, for example, the VAT tax collection, you can expect a much larger fall in income from state companies like ČEZ or other companies than what you need to collect taxes. And here comes the main problem of this proposal. That money, which is one-off and intended to be used for one-off investment, whether building infrastructure, removing old environmental burdens, or bailing out the loss of the pension system at a time when the economy is failing, is now to be involved as a normal income of the state budget, the state will begin to count on it. And the state can consume any amount of money. Over the last few years, we have increased the revenue of the state budget by several hundred billion crowns and the operating expenditure of the state has increased and this has not been significantly reflected. So that's exactly what's going to happen if we include this revenue as a normal income of the state budget. The D.O.D.'s just gonna eat it up in traffic again, and when the crisis comes, we're not gonna have anything to build those highways from, and we're not gonna have anything to fund the pension system from. At the same time, the money was supposed to serve for the structural transitions of the pension fund. Now, maybe the pension system is on the upside today, but according to the government's predictions, in a few years to decades, it's going to be in a forceful negative. And instead of creating a financial reserve and dealing with it, like creating a real estate fund, like Norway, from which pensioners subsequently live, instead, we're putting the money into normal operation. That seems very unreasonable to me. Therefore, the pirát will support the motion to reject this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u17	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. Mr Jan Skopeček now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u18	Thank you for the floor. I have already made negative arguments to this law at first, second and third readings. I would like to ask you to maintain the Senate's opinion, and I would like to ask you for common sense. Because no government in the Czech Republic, whether right-wing or left-wing, had the audacity to drain the reserve fund that was within the National Property Fund. Even the previous very left-wing governments knew that it is simply not good to spend extraordinary income, either from privatisation or from dividends from state-owned enterprises. Because every state, every economy, may need to pay some extra expenses. From these funds, which the government wants to drain and spend in the state budget, pensions are paid when our pension system is down. This is not true of current years, when there is very strong economic growth and low unemployment, and therefore there are also good levies. However, look into the history of the pension system. There have been many years when it simply had to reach into this particular privatisation fund for pensions. I am not talking about the fact that the environmental damage and the burden to which the State has committed itself will require relatively large sums in the future. The Ministry itself recalls in the explanatory memorandum that this may be a problem for cash flow within this privatisation account. And yet the government is messing with the idea of draining money and spending it in the state budget, at the moment, colleagues and colleagues, next year, according to the draft state budget, this government is counting on it to have CZK 150 billion more thanks to a higher collection. So much money will have more to spend, more to your priorities, and yet it is not stupid to touch the reserves that are on privatization accounts. Even during the very construction of this privatization account in the 1990s, our predecessors planned and planned that it was good to have separate extraordinary revenues from the state budget so that political representation did not want to eat through these extraordinary revenues. I beg you at a time when we have strong economic growth... [[A silence for a loud noise in the hall. The President is asking for peace.]] Thank you very much. I ask you to do this precisely at a time when we have strong economic growth, when the government in no way needs these funds from the National Property Fund. Because he still spends his time next year on nonsense like a student's fare and a free fare for seniors, he's already spending enough money. Let's not let her waste money that can serve, for example, pension reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u19	Thank you. Mr Kubíček is reporting for the debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm putting a procedural motion to suspend this item by tomorrow at nine o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u21	It's a procedural proposal. We should vote on it immediately without debate. But there's a counter-proposal by the President of the Stanjura Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u22	Under the Rules of Procedure, I can file a counterclaim. So I'm filing a counterclaim to interrupt this point for a period of five minutes. You can't get the 101 by 9:00 tomorrow anyway. So that's it. They don't have one hundred and one. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-002-002.u23	Thank you. There was a counterproposal. So we will vote on the counter-proposal first, then, if necessary, we will vote on the proposal, as Mr Kubíček put it. I call on Members from the foyer. There's a checkout request. That's what I've done. Please sign up again with your voting cards. We are voting to suspend this item for a period of five minutes. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number 16. 167 Members are registered, for 75, against 87. The motion was not accepted. [[16.00 hours]] We are now going to vote on Mr Kubíček's proposal, which is that we stop discussing this point by 9 a.m. tomorrow. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 17, 168 Members voted in favour of 93, against 73. The motion was accepted. So I'm interrupting this item until 9 o'clock tomorrow. I thank the senator, Madam Secretary. In accordance with the approved programme, I am initiating the discussion of the point
