ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u1	61. Government proposal by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give consent to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union (the House Press 97/ - first reading) We renegotiated the discussion on 1 June when we interrupted the general debate. I will ask the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jan Kubík to take their seats at the rapporteur's table. We will continue with the interrupted general debate, where, according to the tapestry, Mrs Helena Válková's speech was interrupted, if my records are correct. Vice-President Okamura is registered with priority rights. I ask Mrs Válková when she was interrupted as part of her speech, whether she is interested in speaking now. Not yet. Mr. Vice-President Okamura, with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union, which we call the fiscal pact and which is presented here by the Government of Andrej Babiš in resignation, is another step towards bringing the Czech Republic closer to the euro area and to the common budgetary policy of the European Union. What it brings in practice is the loss of sovereign states over their budgets. Our SPD movement will therefore vote against this treaty. However, I fear that other parliamentary parties will outvote us and push us through this treaty, as it is promoted by the Babišův government. And there are other parties in the House that advocate the adoption of the euro in the Czech Republic. We at the SPD reject it. In the debate on the pact, we should not talk about what budgetary discipline is supposed to be and how we might need it. Yes, for our governments to be economical, we want, I believe, all of us. Then let's promote it together. But there is no need for a fiscal pact from the European Union. We all know that any conventions or pacts have not helped Greece, Italy, Spain or Portugal. They just pushed them to fake economic results. To do the right thing, we need decency, reason, and enforceable responsibility for those who manage public money, i.e. to establish, first and foremost, the principles of direct democracy, including direct material responsibility. With regard to the fundamental solution of state budgets, for years we have been proposing the Swiss model, the so-called debt brake, a long-term balanced budget, where it is, of course, possible to respond flexibly to economic cycles by temporary deficits, but with the obligation to cope with them in a time of prosperity. This government is in remission, but even if it is not in demise, the government party, the YES movement, has committed itself to not pushing us into the euro. Now, however, the government is putting forward a proposal in the very opposite trend, which means it is preparing the ground for the introduction of the euro. I say for the SPD that before we accept any agreements that lead to the euro, let us be clear about whether we want it. We in the SPD and most citizens don't want it. Dear colleagues and colleagues... [[The Prime Minister's reaction from the scene.]] Prime Minister, you're commenting from behind. [[He's laughing.]] You say you don't want it, Prime Minister, but you're proposing a fiscal pact, so let's vote against it. [[The Prime Minister's reaction from the scene again.]] I'm telling you, it's pre-prepared for the euro, and we all know that. I'm sorry about the slip, but as the Prime Minister here from behind tells me what and how, I had to comment. But really, if you don't want the euro, but you want the sovereign Czech Republic, Prime Minister, you can vote against the fiscal pact. You yourself say how well you manage, so you do not need a dictation of the European Union to tell you how to be a deficit budget or how to prepare budgets. If you don't feel up to it, of course, we need a fiscal pact or a fiscal pact. We don't. So before you accept the fiscal pact, adopt the referendum law and let citizens decide whether they want to embark on a tragedy called the euro. But you reject such a referendum. And if citizens give you a referendum mandate to adopt the euro, then you can proceed with the fiscal pact. However, I am convinced otherwise. And until then, there is no point in discussing this topic in the House. Once again, the SPD will vote against this government proposal. It is only a salami method, as we gradually cut out of the competence of the Czech Republic, on which I hope we all agree, we have a different view, because we refuse to cut off from the competence of the Czech Republic and refuse to transfer our powers to Brussels. And it's pre-prepared for the adoption of the euro, that's just a fact. Thank you for your attention and I have made our SPD position clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u3	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Mr Jiří Kobza is currently on the table for the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, many views have been expressed on the subject of the fiscal pact. We heard lawyers, we heard economists, we heard politicians. Let us look at the fiscal pact in terms of a strategy, one specific provision of the fiscal pact. It is specifically Article 7 which states: Contracting Parties whose currency is the euro undertake to support, in full respect of the procedural requirements of the Treaties on which the European Union is founded, the proposals and recommendations that the European Commission will make if it finds that a Member State of the European Union whose currency is the euro infringes the deficit criterion under the excessive deficit procedure. This obligation shall not apply where it is found that a qualified majority of the Contracting Parties whose currency is the euro does not agree with the proposed or recommended decision, calculated mutatis mutandis under the relevant provisions of the Treaties on which the European Union is founded, without taking into account the position of the Contracting Party concerned. The devil is always in detail, especially when in this case we can quite objectively say that this is a contract for the future. We are now assured that, as a state not using the euro, this Treaty does not mean any commitments, no consequences. We have heard a similar rhetoric here in the case of the Marrakech Declaration. However, contracts of this type are important not only for what they contain, but for what they do not contain, virtually. what they do not contain explicitly, but what they imply in the knowledge of the related European legislation. The fiscal pact, as we can demonstrate precisely on Article 7, therefore clearly contains a direct link to European law and decision-making processes of transnational nature in the form of the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon, i.e. subjection to the majority, in our case, overvoted. There's no escape! If we approach the euro, we commit ourselves to accepting the entire treaty with everything. To illustrate the above, I can quote from the analysis of the fiscal compact of the 2012 European Affairs Section of the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic: Contractual arrangements negotiated outside the framework of primary EU law must thus not jeopardise the achievement of the objectives contained in the founding contracts and must not violate the fundamental principles of EU law nor be contrary to the various provisions of the incorporation agreements or, on the basis of them, adopted by the standards of secondary EU law. [[Noise in the hall.]] We can fully expect that, as a result of this commitment made outside the framework of the instruments of incorporation, the effective introduction of a reverse qualified majority vote will be a result. The provision governing the legally binding vote cartel of euro area members is thus an undoubted proof of the link, or even of the intervention of this Treaty in primary EU law. This is the automatic adoption of the proposed measure or recommendation of the Commission to the euro area State concerned, unless a qualified majority of the Contracting Parties are qualified. The Member States of the euro area will decide, on the basis of an international contractual instrument outside the framework established by Union law, a law which is not regulated in the instruments of incorporation, how they will subsequently vote as EU Member States in the Council. If the Commission's proposal is not rejected by a qualified majority among the euro area Contracting Parties, then this Treaty expressly obliges the euro area Contracting Party to vote in the Council for such a measure. Such a procedure, which is euphemistically referred to as a rule of conduct, is in fact a factual change in the voting procedure provided for in the EU's instruments of incorporation and an intervention in the exercise of the voting rights of the EU Member States in the Council. It follows from this study that, in addition to the need to vote on this Treaty, the constitutional majority of the Czech Republic's connection to the so-called. a fiscal pact would be an irresponsible hazard and a risk to the national interests of the Czech Republic. If we are to discuss something as a state in connection with the euro at international level, then let us discuss the exception of the Danish or Swedish type, the withdrawal from the obligation to adopt the euro, or the suspension of this step by carrying out a national referendum. In the opinion of the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, how to deal with this very dangerous treaty for the Czech Republic, its rejection is as quickly as possible. So I'm making a motion to eliminate this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u5	Thank you. Let me read Mr Kolovratník's additional apology, who apologizes within 16 hours for work reasons. Mr Marek Benda is now on the table for the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u6	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, I do not wish to speak to this Treaty in a territorial manner, but I want to speak to its legal framework and how it should be in this House, virtually. in this Parliament, it is discussed how it was discussed in the previous parliamentary term and what has changed since then. I expected Mrs Válková to complete her speech and that there would be some justification for how the government was able to figure out that a treaty of a presidential nature requiring a three-fifth majority for the transfer of powers to international organisations suddenly, as a wave of magic, has become a treaty of a different type, which suddenly does not carry any powers, then it is quite unnecessary to approve it. However, I consider it essential to say that we have here in the Chamber of Deputies a letter from the President of the Senate Milan Štěch, in which he points very strongly to the fact that this draft international treaty was submitted to the Senate in the previous parliamentary term as a proposal requiring approval under Article 10a of the Constitution, that is to say, requiring the approval of a qualified majority of the two chambers. The Senate already agreed in 2014. The Chamber of Deputies did not get to discuss it. Three years have passed, the government comes back with this treaty. Suddenly, it is presented only to the Chamber of Deputies, which is quite incomprehensible, because contracts are normally presented to both chambers. In this case, the discount is valid in the Chamber of Deputies. We all know that things that are not approved by the end of the parliamentary term fall under the table and have to be tabled again. Even in the case of a double taxation treaty with Kosov, which is a contract of a completely similar nature, approved by the Senate in 2014, the Chamber of Deputies did not discuss the entire last term of office because there was no willingness to discuss such a treaty, so the Government is presenting it to both chambers. But surprisingly fiscal pact, virtually. The Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union suddenly presents only to the Chamber of Deputies, even under the regime of approval as a normal international treaty, which does not transfer any powers to any bodies outside the state authorities of the Czech Republic. I consider that a very dubious procedure. I think that this procedure should be clarified first in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies, how it is to be voted, on the basis of which the Government has changed the position of the Legislative Council of the Government of the previous parliamentary term, where I must say, is the extremely smiling justification that is presented in the explanatory report on the fiscal compact, which is not at all dealing with the question of how, in four years, the government will decide that it will suddenly be approved in a different way, and only notes that the ministers responsible for presenting this compact insist that it should be approved by a simple majority. [[14.50 hours]] I don't see how the duration of any ministers can change the government's decision four years ago. Change the decision of the Legislative Council four years ago. Change the will of this Parliament, which also normally discussed as if it were a treaty under Article 10a of the Constitution. The second chamber discussed in such a way as to constitute a contract pursuant to Article 2 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 10a Constitution. And suddenly, two ministers - and apparently it will be common in this government of busy ministers - will say, well, everyone else was wrong, but you and I ministers are right, which is why we propose that this be approved in a different regime and in a different way. I find it impossible for us to treat international treaties in this way. Now I don't want to go into all the details, we can discuss them on committees. I think that this treaty, of course, is passed on to the authorities of the Czech Republic to the international institutions, and it does not matter that we already have it modified in the Czech Republic. Please, it doesn't matter at all, and who thinks such a thing is only deeply and deeply wrong. The important thing is whether there are any powers of international institutions towards the Czech Republic, not whether we already have it modified, because of course that means that we cannot adjust it in the future otherwise, that we are bound by this contractual framework, and therefore we are in a situation where we are limited to our sovereignty precisely because we have become part of some such international convention. I think that the Treaty on stability, coordination and governance in economic and monetary union is very clear and typical. So I would suggest that we interrupt the discussion of this point until clarification, by answering the question under which the Constitutional regime the Treaty is to be discussed, in order to clarify the question why the Government has only submitted this Treaty to the Chamber of Deputies and has not submitted it to the Senate at the same time, which I think is a very important matter for the negotiations between the President of our House and the President of the Senate to be clarified. If such a proposal fails, I will, of course, subsequently propose that we order this treaty to be discussed and to the constitutionally legal committee, although I am sorry and I do not like it. Not for its content, but for how the treaty is to be approved on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I am clearly in favour of the opinion that the Government presented four years ago, which has been maintained in both chambers of Parliament all the time, that this is a presidential treaty under Art. 10a, i.e. requiring the approval of a three-fifth majority of both chambers. We would also have to answer, of course, the question of what would happen in a situation where the Senate voted in a different way from that voted by the Chamber of Deputies. And if it is at all possible for us to agree that a treaty can be approved in one chamber by such and such a court and in another chamber by another court, both on a proposal from the government. Only in the other chamber, in the upper chamber, it was on the proposal of the previous government, in our chamber it will be on the proposal of this government now. But what does it mean for the treaty to be valid? Because otherwise we will get into endless constitutional disputes and I think we are moving very quickly towards the Constitutional Court, which will have to be asked this question. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 10a of the Constitution, and secondly, if it is at all possible for the chambers to decide in a different regime, that the government should confuse at least one of the chambers in this respect, either the previous government to the upper chamber or that government to the lower chamber, and put forward a proposal to it in a regime other than that in which it should be properly approved. So I propose that we vote on interrupting the clarification of the question of what vote should be put to the vote and, if it is possible for a treaty to be directed to only one chamber, that the government should address only one chamber and not both chambers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u7	I saw your proposal as procedural. However, I will ask you, I feel him unvoting because he's too vague. Who should clarify? Someone's gonna feel like they're clear now, and maybe somebody's not. So we either ask the House's legislation, or we ask the Government's opinion or the Ministry's. I guess you feel what I mean.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u8	Yes, thank you, Mr President, for the clarification. I think it would be solid to request the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government and the Parliamentary Institute. I do not ask the government for an opinion because the government has given its opinion that the ministers insist. That's in the explanatory memorandum, which I don't see as legal grounds, of course. I consider that a mockery of this House. But that ministers insist that a normal regime should be approved, so we know the government's position, but they haven't dealt with how the government's position could change in four years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u9	Thank you for the clarification. For those who have entered the hall: we will vote to interrupt this item until the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government and the Parliamentary Institute is presented on the issue of the correctness of the Government's procedure. I'm registering the application for check-out, of course I'll grant it. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards again. It seems that the number of votes has settled for us, and we will vote on the interruption of this point until the House has presented the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government and the Parliamentary Institute on the process of discussing this international treaty. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of interrupting. Who's against it? Voting number 192, 155 Members registered, for 71, against 63. This proposal has not been adopted. So the point hasn't been interrupted. I see a point of fact here. Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I abstained from voting, although I understand the proposal made here by my colleague, Mr Marek Benda. But as far as international treaties are concerned, we can even raise a preliminary question there to the Constitutional Court, which can assess whether we can deal with this. Which I do not consider to be a thing that would prevent us from discussing it now, but we can agree on it after the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u11	Thank you for keeping time. President Stanjura is in favour of the general debate. We are still moving in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u12	Hello. Mr President, this is not a priority right. I'm the only one who signed up, but it doesn't really matter. [[Then you have both.]] We witnessed a moment ago that most of the Chamber of Deputies does not really care what regime we discuss this treaty in, and it doesn't matter that the government is applying double standards. One contract, e.g. Kosovo will send them to both chambers, even though it is an identical approach. Second contract, this one, only sends to one chamber. He's willing to change the kind of contract, the deal, and he's quiet about it. They can't justify it. I think the reason is simple. Andrej Babiš loves to say how different he is in European politics than Bohuslav Sobotka, but he is exactly the same. [[15.00 hours]] I told you last time that this contract came for the first time until the first reading on May 14, 2014. That's more than four years ago. Now we do not have time, after four years, to request the opinion of the Parliamentary Institute and the Legislative Council of the Government, because we are in a hurry. We didn't discuss it in four years, because besides us, we found other political clubs that were against, for example. Former YES 2011 parliamentary club. And what is the same practice in European politics of Andrej Babiš and Bohuslav Sobotka? Twice they go to Brussels, twice they go to dinner with other statesmen, change their minds, and immediately submit a proposal for ratification of this treaty. In order to have relevant information, if possible, I turned to... [[It is being silenced because one of the Members is stopping at the Secretary of Finance and the rapporteur's desk.]] I'm really in no hurry, it's okay. So last week, I contacted the Minister of Finance in writing, which I asked specific questions. I look forward to an answer. At this point, I am saying that I will not agree with the answer - not to oppose it at all costs, but to be able to debate the facts that the answer will undoubtedly contain. I will introduce you to the questions I asked the Minister, because I think that before we vote on the treaty, we should know the answers. And I am based on House press 97, which is the House press that the government has submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. I'm coming from an explanatory note. And the explanatory memorandum states: Title III of fiscal compact states that the public budgets of the Contracting Parties are to be balanced or surplus. - Balanced or surplus. - The structural deficit should not exceed 0,5 per cent of GDP and a structural deficit of up to 1 per cent of GDP would only be allowed under debt below 60 per cent of GDP and guaranteed sustainability of public finances. - That's the kind of rubber expression that the last Chamber of Deputies approved in the financial institutions caricature that we're supposed to ensure the sustainability of public finances. The same head further imposes an automatic redress mechanism on the national budgetary procedure - and this is all members of the European Union outside of us and the United Kingdom. In our political vocabulary in the Czech Republic, it's called a debt brake. - It would be activated if states deviated from the structural deficit contract or from the path to its gradual achievement. - It means the budget should be balanced or surplus. Those with a GDP below 60 per cent may have up to 1 per cent of the structural deficit, those with a government debt above 60 per cent of GDP, only 0.5 per cent of the structural deficit GDP. The form, scope and precise functioning of the corrective mechanism should be established at national level on the basis of common principles proposed by the European Commission. - That means this is national jurisdiction, the debt brakes can be individual. There is no European master and it depends on the legislation of each Member State, in this case the Contracting Parties, which steps they choose. However, those steps should lead to those countries that have a public debt of more than 60 per cent of GDP taking measures that will result in a reduction of 5 per cent of the excess over 60% of GDP per year. That means if someone had it for three years, it's already 15 percent of the overhang. Contracting parties in the excessive deficit procedure have an obligation - duty! - submit and implement a budgetary and economic programme. Its content is to be a detailed description of structural reforms leading to a sustainable correction of the excessive deficit. The adequacy of this programme and its consistency with the draft budget plan for the following year will be monitored by the Commission and the Council. And so that we know how the signatories of this treaty and those who have ratified it, i.e. Contracting parties, so I asked the Minister the following four questions: One. What is the ratio of public debt to gross domestic product at market prices at 31 in the countries of all signatories to the contract? 12. 2017 stating that if the number is not available, then the number is sufficient to 31. 12. 2016 respectively. the last known figure. This means that at this point we will get a list of 26 Contracting Parties with the fact that each country will present the last known figure of the size of the public debt. Then we can divide the Contracting Parties into two groups. The first group is those countries where the total public debt will be less than 60 per cent of GDP, and they have the right to have 1% of the structural deficit, and the second group, which will undoubtedly be larger, contracting parties, which will have a debt of more than 60 per cent of GDP, and there the structural deficit can be a maximum of 0,5 per year of GDP. The second question I asked the Minister to give us an indication of the level of the structural deficit of the Contracting Parties. Then we are able to compare both data - total debt and structural deficit. If we have the data, we can go to the third question, that is, in which countries that have a public debt-to-GDP ratio of more than 60 per cent, I believe that this is the larger group of countries, they have introduced a debt brake in national legislation, what is the mechanism of redress, what are the steps contained in the National Debt Brake Act, whether it was adopted by a simple or constitutional majority, and what are the main elements of this mechanism. And then it's important when it went off, how it works and who's evaluating it. And the fourth question, which will evaluate those countries that first have a debt of more than 60 per cent compared to GDP, must have a structural deficit of less than 0,5 per cent. If they have a higher one, and they have a debt brake, I ask the Minister if the brake has been triggered and what results it brings. And whether the competence of the European Commission and the Council is being used, which can speak very hard to those countries, if either the debt brake is not or is not activated, or is so weak that it does not produce the desired economic results. Why is this information important to our decision making? To know whether those who point to us - beware, beware, you are the last, we have already signed and ratified this - are fulfilling what they have committed to, whether the debt brakes are working, whether the overall debt of these public budgets of other countries, especially in euro area countries, is being reduced, and whether they are actually doing so at a rate of 5% of the overhang per year. I will then propose, at the end of my speech, a suspension of this item until the Ministry of Finance receives the answers, because it is not possible for the opposition club to find out this information. I mean, we're going to be based on the data we get from the Treasury Department, and we're not going to argue about individual numbers. So, basically, it's going to be a report from each of the Contracting Parties. I'm just reminding you, when you remember the Greek economic crisis, that by then the Řek had sent a report on how everything was okay, the wise European Commission didn't check it, and then it turned out that the numbers didn't correspond to reality. And then all the members of the European Union had to deal with it. When we say - and we agree that the idea, the idea that states should manage reasonably, balanced or surplusly, especially when the economy is going well, with a legitimate deficit, where the economic cycle is either stagnation or recession, that's actually right. We Civil Democrats repeatedly say that we do not need an international treaty to do this, that we should adopt such a law, regardless of the fact that someone else wants it, because it is good for the Czech Republic and for citizens in the Czech Republic. [[15.10 hours]] On this basis, there has been a political debate in the Chamber of Deputies for about seven years on the parameters of a financial constitution or a debt brake. Here there is a nice political paradox that colleagues from the left, especially the Social Democrats, the most pro-European, rhetorically, their voters no longer see it that way, but the most pro-European, rhetorically, we are constantly convinced that it is necessary to ratify, but at the same time they do not want a debt brake for the Czech Republic. Because they say the government has to do as we want to do, when we rule, we have the right, what kind of debt brake, the kind of trap that the right hands are setting for you, and so on. This means that we, who want balanced, reasonable, long-term balanced financing of the state, want the rules in Czech legislation and at the same time reject this unnecessary proposal. And on the other hand, there are those who want to sign the proposal formally to be labeled pro-European, really, contentfully rejecting it. When we ruled, we were honest about the constitutional majority, we wanted a constitutional law, and we did not obtain a constitutional majority, so the constitutional law was not approved precisely because of the different political position of colleagues from our left. The previous government, the government of Bohuslav Sobotka, Andrej Babiš and Pavel Bělobrádek, was originally to pursue the ambition of constitutional law. We offered them our votes, and she was a constitutional majority. If we wanted a real debt brake. However, the strongest member of the government coalition, the Social Democrats at the time, refused to introduce a real debt brake into our legislation, so it was not a pass through constitutional law, so we adopted something called and pretended to be a financial constitution, as a debt brake, but really there is nothing there, and we accepted it by simple majority, which means it doesn't even bring stability. That is why, in our opinion, if anything, it is to have a constitutional law so that it does not change with every change of the simple majority. I don't exactly remember the numbers of governments in the Czech Republic, but I feel that neither of them ruled formally by a constitutional majority. Yes, for some bills there are for all parties, a relatively strong number of votes can be obtained, especially for laws that are more of a technical nature, but I think that formally no government majority in the Chamber of Deputies had a constitutional majority. At least since 2010, not since 2006, I don't quite remember it before, but I think that's how it was. It's actually the result of our proportional system. It is true that in the upper chamber this constitutional law is adopted for me by a special method, that a constitutional majority is needed, but of the present, not of the total, virtually. a three-fifth majority of the senators present, while here is a three-fifth majority of all members of the Chamber of Deputies. But that's in the Constitution, and that's just the way it is. And let's see what the ODS thinks the real financial constitution should contain. It's actually three basic parts, one of which we already have, or one and a half, to be honest. What was approved by a simple majority at least at the point concerning the National Budget Council was also supported by civil democrats. This means that we have set up the National Budget Board, it has been operating since this year, the National Budget Board has received its chapter in the state budget and is actually starting its activities. Let's see what practical outputs are going to be. In principle, there was political agreement across the political spectrum. On top of that, when the National Budget Board actually has a recommending character or advisory character, there was no reason for any political party to block that it did not want such National Budget Board. So that's done. The second part, the key part, which is also referred to in Title II of fiscal compact - shorthand is called the debt brake. And there were basically four different bills that didn't differ very much between them, just in detail. I'm gonna introduce you to that detail because it's important. In principle, the first parameter to contain such a debt brake is actually the amount of debt when it is activated. That's what the debate was about. The first proposal distinguished about four bands, 40 percent, 40 to 45 percent of GDP, 45 to 48, 48 to 50 and more than 50. This was our 2012 proposal for which we did not obtain a constitutional majority. Then came the proposal of the then Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš from the Ministry of Finance workshop, where there were no more four bands, but only one. As part of the political compromise, we have said that this is a matter that we are ready to support. There doesn't have to be four bands. Because when you have four bands, the initiation of the measure is gradual, not so drastic, public institutions, state budget, self-government can prepare for this much slower and in some medium term. But okay. It wasn't a thing that would be unstoppable for us, so we said yes, let's have fun, there'll be one line where the debt brake goes off, it'll be 55 percent. In principle, the debt brake contains several measures. Firstly, when it is activated, the Government is to submit to the Chamber of Deputies a proposal for a surplus or a balanced budget as contained in the provisions of the fiscal compact. Thanks not to colleagues from the left, this expression has been replaced by a European wording that, at the time the debt brake is activated, the government will submit a draft state budget that is consistent with sustainable public finances. Which is a relatively vague term. Anyone can interpret it differently. I'm sure he'd encourage big political discussions about what it is. Whereas the proposal for a balanced or surplus budget is very simple. You know how it is at first reading when we're discussing the state budget. Total revenue, total expenditure, balance. Everyone knows per minute whether the draft budget is surplus, balanced or deficit. And it's the key approved by the House at first reading. When it is approved, only transfers between chapters or within chapters can be made, and that is, from my point of view, the most important decision of the Chamber of Deputies. The rest depends heavily on the government, especially within the chapters, what are the priorities of one or the government. So that's the first thing. That's the relation to the state budget. The second thing that should include a debt brake is that public institutions are not to accept new long-term liabilities when the debt brake is activated. Even the original proposal from the Treasury Department talked about freezing pensions. This seemed too brave for us and we said that we would not support such a thing, but the government then, in the legislative process, threw it out of the bill in the context of the external commentary procedure. And then that the state only provides state guarantees under the law applicable on the day of the announcement of the triggering of the activation of the debt brake. This means that any government cannot bring new laws that would allow new guarantees for state spending after the start of the debt brake. We have not been able to agree on these simple principles by a constitutional majority, because the key point, whether it is a surplus or a balanced budget, has simply come across colleagues from the left. Yes, it is true that in these months and years, we are far from close to the 60 percent of GDP threshold assumed by the fiscalcompact. That makes me feel hotter if some colleagues from other countries are telling us that we don't have it yet. We do not have it ratified, but we behave like the Czech Republic. That is why I have intersected the Minister to compare the real real results of those who are mountaineering for it, who have so proudly ratified and who say to the Czech Republic "do, you are the last" to compare it with how we manage ourselves without ratifying these international treaties. [[15.20 hours]] We are ready to have a new, rational debate when the government is confident that we could actually approve the debt brake, its activation and its elements by constitutional law. We are prepared from the original proposal that I have quoted here, which is the proposal of the civil democrats, to reach out to the government and try to find a compromise that, in the long term, would have made it impossible for the government to manage irresponsiblely in the perspective of many electoral periods. If we say that this parameter would be 55 percent of GDP debt, then we are not talking about this or the next parliamentary term. I hope so. I can't imagine even in the darkest dreams that the government would so jump up this. And I don't really suspect the government. I mean, our proposal does not go against this particular government or past, which is really going to the future, and it would be worth it to have. Now, let's at least discuss together briefly what the government is proposing. If you look at the House press 97, he's not very extensive. If you look - and we have two other languages printed, if - yes, it is so, so there are some passages twice. If I wanted to simplify it a little bit, the contract has three parts: the introduction - a declaration full of transversals, big goals, noncommittal, then it's over, and in between it's a body. The real Fiscalcompact, which in those Titles III and IV, and I will get to it, places some responsibilities on the Member States and also transfers jurisdiction to the European level, and then I will talk about it. So it can't be a simple contract, because we're talking about transferring competences to a European level. And then I'm going to quote what articles I'm judging by. There can be different interpretations. I don't take anybody else's interpretation. What's at national level is, as I quote, what the debt brake will be. So if I simplify it, the government is suggesting that we approve the opening and closing ceremony and not ratify the inside. This is a procedure that is possible, which we can actually apply, for which no one can criticize us because we are not a member of the euro area. That would be another case, where we'd have to ratify it as a whole. And I have not said that yet, these are the rules that the eurozone Member States have laid down. So we've been running a long political game here for the fifth year about whether to ratify the introduction and conclusion without the inside. And I'm sure you can think of a logical question that even the voters can think about why they're fighting when it's nothing. To approve the title and then the list of signed countries does not really oblige the Czech Republic to do anything. And that's not true, either. It's about the interpretation again. Yes, strictly formally, the Minister, for example, said in one of her speeches on this point that it does not oblige us to do anything. I agree with that. However, on the other hand, we have some experience of negotiating with European institutions. It is often used as a salami method: you have already approved the title and conclusion, so you need to approve what is in the middle. That's perfectly normal. And just so we're clear. Although political opponents tell us that we are anti-European, it is not true. We are pro-European, we say that we do not see an alternative to the EU, but at the same time we are healthyly critical. And we say very often here, when we say Brusel, so are we in Brusel. We too are part of the EU, and we need our voice to sound. And you know that our President initiated negotiations with the Prime Minister back then in a demise about coordinating positions in foreign policy, because we say in the long term that we will be as strong abroad as we will be at home united. The more we are at home arguing about foreign policy, the less we will push through on the European scene. So this match could be interpreted as completely unnecessary, but although we are pro-European, we do not see an alternative to the EU, at the same time we do not see the benefits of adopting the euro in these years. We consider the euro not an economic but a political project that has failed. And it's not just a theory. When someone looks at it with a critical eye, they look at how the euro worked in individual Member States, and it did not help what was declared a target. We have been in great doubt from the beginning, from the beginning as citizens' democrats we have said: let us be extremely careful, let us not marry anywhere. Because the declared objective was to bring the economies of the euro area countries closer to the level. And I think we can answer that, and we can answer that statistical data from Eurostat, if that's true, that the euro area Member States, after they have adopted the euro, have come close to the level of their economies. It's not true, and when we debate the parameters in those countries, we can also show it on specific numbers. The effect is the opposite. The adoption of the euro, especially for those countries that did not have economic prospects for this, but decided for political reasons, has very often led to unfortunate economic consequences. I do not want to say that always and everywhere, but we will certainly find many examples, especially in the southern wing of the euro area, where the adoption of the euro did not help one or another economy of a eurozone Member State. Also, note how popular it is, but the electoral results of those parties in those countries that, for example, call for their return to their original currency and their exit from the euro area. Maybe ten or fifteen years ago, it was completely marginal and minority views in the elections, but the view between the voters of the eurozone is just getting stronger, and whoever doesn't see it is blind. And instead of saying: look out, it brings other effects than what we wanted, let's talk about whether it is useful or not, let's talk about dislodgement or, for example, consolidation in some areas, so such a universal answer is more integration, more powers to Brussels, more integration, and over and over again. And that's not a rational critical debate. Very often these supporters of us who are cautious and critical beat us on the head with a baton: they are anti-European! It's not true, we're not like that, but we have a critical view. So if we are going to argue about this treaty, I would ask you not to call us anti-European and to tell us who is in favour of the fiscalcompact, it must be for the adoption of the euro. That makes sense in the way European legislation stands today. This is actually an obligation for euro area Member States. I find it strange when the government says at once: we do not want the euro, but we must approve the fiscal compact. In the fact that the euro is not advantageous for the Czech Republic in these years, we agree with the government and I do not criticise it for this part of the statement or the government's position. But then I don't understand why we're dealing with this here, Madam Secretary. What's it for anyway? You said - either you or one of your colleagues from the government, I'm sorry, I don't know exactly - that if we ratify the title and the conclusion, they'll invite us to the negotiating table. And I would like us to agree on a political level that we will be invited to that table. They will invite - regardless of whether we approve the title and the conclusion. So that's equal access. If the eurozone addresses the issues that they will touch - and undoubtedly will address issues that will also affect non-member countries, it is a correct and equivalent approach for non-member countries to be open to debate. Yes, they cannot vote, I understand, that is according to the rules of this Treaty, but why could they not be present at the hearing? Why would we have to approve the title and the conclusion? [[15.30 hours]] If we want a strong resolution of the Czech Parliament to do so, we are prepared to adopt such a resolution to invite us to these negotiations. I would say that we are certainly able to adopt such a resolution by a constitutional majority, although the resolution does not need a constitutional majority. But this shows the strength of the Czech Republic's consensus and firm position and that the government coalition and opposition agree on such a question. We are prepared to vote in favour of such a resolution, but the government must initiate it. We do not just want to make a gesture that we have rebutted, the item has not been included, the resolution has not been approved. If the government evaluates that this would help in the legitimate request, I note, in the legitimate requirement that we be present at such negotiations as the Czech Republic, we are ready to participate in such a resolution and vote in favour. Because I consider the request not only legitimately logical, and I am completely surprised that someone is denying us the right to be there. So either we are equal members of the EU, and I think we are and we are supposed to be confident. The fact that it is a two-speed Europe is a long time ago true. You have other countries to which Schengen applies, other countries to which the euro area applies. We would find many other examples where other groups of Member States use some common products. There's nothing wrong with that. Why, in this particular case, does anyone deny us to be at the negotiating table? Then let's hear from the government and our ministers who deny us this. Who specifically denies us to be at the negotiating table, and let us protest like the Czech Parliament and say: We who have such good results! Look at our data! - Madam Secretary, there's this nice picture that I'm debating, on the contrary, that many of these signatories should be watching us keep public finances under control, not the other way around. - Then why don't you want to hear it? Maybe we can give you some advice. So I would like to know who specifically, if any institution, specific European politicians, any faction in the European Parliament, or who is actually stopping us from being at the negotiating table. I agree with the government that we should be there, and let's do everything we can to do, together with the opposition, to be at that table. But it's absurd, from our point of view, it's absurd that they'll invite us to that table if we approve the title and the conclusion. Or an introduction and a conclusion. And now a few notes on the contract. First of all, the treaty doesn't bring anything new. What is written in it has already been mentioned in the previous documents. For experts and for those who enjoy European documents, this was for example. in Two-pack, which has long been accepted at European level before fiscal compact. The same words, the same goals. Instead of assessing why they didn't come true, we showed who didn't, so we replaced it with a new treaty. If you look into that contract, the first eight pages -- I'm going to turn it over, I'm going to leave the reason message -- is a declaration. If I wanted to lighten it up a little bit, he used some of his favorite movie lines from popular films in the Czech Republic, I'd say something like that. Signalers say it. Something has gone wrong, comrades. We realize that. We are aware of this with these fancy words, so we will do something about it and try to fulfill what we have long ago committed ourselves to. That, I would say, is actually the translation into normal Czech of the first eight pages of this international treaty. Many government politicians use the main argument - and I do not see the difference between Bohuslav Sobotka's policy and Andrej Babiš: When we accept this, we go back to the mainstream. We're joining the core. We're not gonna be troublemakers. We won't stand out. We won't bother the others. It is possible that some in Europe may view it this way, but it is not. By being critical, I'm neither trouble nor troublemaker. I'm not bothering anyone. Maybe I'm sticking out. But the results are in our favor. Not in favour of those who would possibly signify the Czech Republic in this way. I took the job and in Word I copied the part of the Stability, Coordination and Governance Treaty in the Economic and Monetary Union that the government is proposing to ratify. I put it in a special file, and the program counts for me or for us. So, my dear colleagues, to get back into the mainstream, to get back into the core so that we don't be troublemakers, stand out and bother others, it's just 889 words and 5066 characters without a gap. This fast, this simple, some say we'll stop being troublemakers that we're not really. We are not opposed to the treaty because we want to be thriving, to increase state budget deficits and the public sector, but because it does not benefit at all. No benefit to the Czech Republic and its citizens. And what is important, and that is the second important argument: we are not defending anyone. By not ratifying it, we didn't make it any harder for anyone. Those who freely decided to ratify it, okay. We'll find out from the secretary how serious they were and what the reality is with their debt brakes. And some contracts require the consent of all the Contracting Parties to come into effect, and we signed it, didn't we? We just didn't ratify it. We're not defending anyone. So do we need those 889 words or don't we? Again, it may seem like a pointless duel and marginalia, and why the opposition is actually stalling and we could do other points. Well, we could have done different points. We also wanted to do other points. [[with laughter]] But you wanted to do that, and I'm trying to convince you on behalf of our party not to ratify it. To consider the impacts for the Czech Republic, which are not positive, so why would we do so? And so let's read the head III and IV together on the microphone. This is indeed an attempt to channel public finances within the euro area. These are the chapters the government proposes not to ratify. And I agree with the government. I'm not suggesting we ratify the entire treaty so we understand each other. So some partial government support exists here. And then we can compare it and evaluate whether we need it or not. Title I. Purpose and scope. Article 1. The Contracting Parties, as EU Member States, undertake to strengthen the economic pillar of economic and monetary union by adopting this set of rules for tightening budgetary discipline through the budgetary pact, as well as to strengthen the coordination of their economic policies and improve the management of the euro area, thereby supporting the achievement of the EU's objectives in the form of sustainable employment growth, competitiveness and social cohesion. - I think only this sentence is quite incomprehensible and very complicated, but it fits exactly with the European dictionary. That's what I said. Something has gone wrong, comrades. We're aware of that. We'll commit to something that we've already committed to at least once, maybe twice, maybe three times. Secondly, and I have already mentioned this, this Treaty fully applies to countries whose currency is the euro. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the This is the whole of Title I that the government is proposing to ratify. Let's do it again. Member States say we have to manage wisely, and the second, more substantial sentence that this Treaty as a whole applies fully to euro area Member States. I'm sure we can agree on that. Well, not us. Title II Compliance with and relationship with Union law. I quote: "The Contracting Parties shall apply and interpret this Treaty in accordance with the Treaties on which the EU is founded, in particular with Art. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 3 EU Treaty, as well as EU law, including procedural law, where the adoption of secondary legislation is required.'; - If I wanted to be vicious, like I wasn't, I'd ask the secretary a simple question to explain the sentence. I really don't understand her. But I'm not gonna ask that question. Maybe someday, if it's ever gonna be on the committees. Including procedural law where the adoption of secondary legislation is required. This Treaty shall apply to the extent compatible with the Treaties on which the EU is founded and with EU law. It shall not interfere with the Union's competence to act in the field of economic union. - This is all of Title II. It is also recommended that the government ratify this title and judge for yourself what is new - I note new - it brings to the Contracting Parties and what is new for the Czech Republic. My opinion is that nothing, but perhaps the Minister has discovered something and in the debate it will tell us what new it brings to the Czech Republic. [[15.40 hours]] Titles III and IV. These are the heads the government proposes not to ratify. That's the actual content of this contract, and I'm going to quote from that. I must say that Title III actually corresponds to the declared objectives in Title I, and they say, among other things, there will be a tightening of budgetary discipline... and automatic mechanisms must be adopted to impede the adverse development of public finances. As I said, these two heads of government are proposing not to ratify, so I am not going to devote myself to them, because there is no point in having a long debate about something that no one is suggesting. I don't want to say -- there are political parties that would like to ratify the entire treaty, I'm sorry. So some parties propose to ratify everything, but it is not in this House press 97. So if I don't delay, I won't be paying attention to Titles III and IV at this point. Let's head in the Eurozone Administration, Article 12: "The Heads of State and Government of the Contracting Parties whose currency is the euro meet informally with the President of the European Commission at the eurozone summits." Nothing new, that's what happened before. "The President of the European Central Bank shall be invited to attend these meetings. The Heads of State or Government of the Contracting Parties, whose currency is the euro, shall appoint the President of the Euro Summits.' That means, although we will be signatories - if I imagine that we have ratified it - we have no right to appoint the chairman of the summit meetings. So I don't know, not even this little thing - because I think it's mostly a formal thing that's long-term agreed, who's gonna be chairman of those prime ministers' meetings and the like - nor can a Contracting Party that ratified it and doesn't have the euro as its currency. And it is done by a simple majority - which is simply not very advantageous for a member country the size of the Czech Republic - when the European Council elects its President for the same term of office. Second, it says in Title V: "The eurozone summits are held as required and at least twice a year with a view to...' [[Silence because of the loud noise in the room.]] Thank you. -... discuss issues related to the specific responsibilities which the parties whose currency is the euro share in relation to the single currency, "which does not concern us, "other issues relating to euro area governance and the rules applicable to it, and strategic guidelines for the implementation of economic policies and for strengthening convergence in the euro area." This Article shall apply only to euro area countries. So again, even if we ratify this without Title III and IV, we cannot actually participate in this because we are not a member of the euro area. The third paragraph therefore introduces - Title V of Article 12: "The Heads of State or Government of the Contracting Parties other than those whose currency is the euro" could already concern the Czech Republic, "which ratified this Treaty, participate in the negotiations of euro area summits on competitiveness for the Contracting Parties, changes in the overall arrangement of the euro area and the basic rules that will apply to it in future, as well as, where appropriate, and at least once a year, negotiations on specific issues relating to the implementation of this Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union." So once a year, the prime ministers can come. Not at least twice a year, as the euro area is in advance of the article. And that is the thing that we should insist that our Prime Minister will ride to those meetings, top meetings, even if we do not ratify. I think that, in the current state of the European Union, we are able to enforce this legitimate political requirement. I don't see who's against it. Now I have a specific question. How many of these meetings, which, of course, the representatives of the Czech Republic could not attend, took place from 1 January 2013 on the basis of Article 12 (2) of the Act. 3. Whether we know what the agenda was, what was on the agenda, or what was on the agenda and the outcome of this meeting was pushed through countries that are signatories and are not members of the euro area at the same time. Whether those signatories were able to put in the programme any of the points that were not proposed by the euro area Member States. I'm almost halfway there. Article IV, respectively... [[A reminder off the microphone.]] I think you will answer me in the debate, perhaps not today, but in the debate I think, if you do not end the majority, all the advocates of this treaty will be able to argue against our arguments and our views. Paragraph 4 of Article 12 is more of an organizational one, which says: "The preparation and continuity of eurozone summits shall be ensured by their chairman in close cooperation with the President of the European Commission." We really wouldn't have thought of that. We have to have a contract to do that, that the President is organizing and preparing the meeting. The former President of the House also organized a meeting of the House and it seemed quite normal to us. Well, it's there. The treaty also had to have some paragraphs to see how important it was for the Member States. I don't know how many eurosummits were till night. And at three o'clock in the morning, the ministers were all sweaty about how they negotiated the compromise all night, so I don't know if it was the same with this Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic Monetary Union. Article 12 (5) also states: "The President of the European Parliament may be invited to appear at the euro area summit. [[He's laughing.]] Following each euro area summit, its President shall submit a report to the European Parliament.'; However, only the euro area meeting is mentioned here, not the meeting of euro area members with other signatories to the treaty. Here's my second specific question. I would like to know how many reports the President of the euro area has submitted to the European Parliament and how the European Parliament has dealt with those reports. When they were discussed, what was discussed and whether a resolution had been adopted on this. The treaty has been in force for quite a long time, so I think that the European Parliament can have some experience with it. I think the MP can ask his MEPs how often. However, after each meeting, the report should come from the European Parliament. I do not know if we should introduce that the government will report to the Chamber of Deputies after each meeting on what was in the government. That's very similar. Article 12 also has paragraph 6: "The President of euro area summits shall regularly and in detail inform the Contracting Parties other than those whose currency is the euro," which is us, "and the other Member States of the European Union" - which we are also - "the preparations and results of each euro area summit." Which means it doesn't matter if we're signed or not. So I want to ask you, Madam Secretary, how often, how often, how regularly, as the President has informed the Contracting Party in detail, in this case the Czech Republic? Where is the information available? Whether they are also available in the Czech language, whether the Ministry is planning to publish them at any time, so that we know if they are informing us or not. Because the Contracting Parties have committed themselves to this - regularly and in detail. Then we should check it out. Who other than the Treasury can give us comprehensive information about how often, how regularly and how detailed these reports are. And I'm really interested in the specific messages. In order not to be the type: dear Member State, we met last week, we started and, after a fruitful discussion, adopted resolutions that are at www.European Parliament.eu. I don't consider it a detailed report. But maybe I'm wrong. I would ask the Minister to equip all members and members of our lower chamber with such information. And I think it would be good for the budget committee to deal with that. I see fellow Members of the Committee on Budgets here, and I think this is a matter that belongs to the Committee on Budgets. [[15.50 hours]] This was the whole of Article 12 in Title V. Then there is only Article 13, which is: In accordance with Title II of Protocol 1 on the role of national parliaments - which is us, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Czech Republic - in the European Union, annexed to the Treaties on which the European Union is founded, the European Parliament and the national parliaments of the Contracting Parties shall jointly define the organisation and support of the conference of representatives of the relevant committees of the European Parliament and of the representatives of the relevant committees. - I don't want to underestimate it. It still seems to me to be a rather complex provision. I do not know if a conference has taken place between representatives of relevant committees of the European Parliament and national parliaments. If so, the Ministry of Finance will certainly tell us when, where, whether it is changing or whether it is being done separately in individual Member States. Well, that's it, actually. Then just Title VI of the General and Final Resolutions, Article 14, which tells us where the contractual documents are stored, and Article 15, which says that the Member States of the European Union whose currency is not the euro, which is our case, can also do so. Then I have a few notes here, but I already said that in the interpellation. We should give the secretary a chance. However, without making it any less difficult, I am putting forward a procedural proposal to interrupt the discussion of this point after the Minister's speech and after receiving written interpelation, because, in my opinion, there will be important data, important facts that will help us to focus on whether or not the treaty will be implemented. ratification of the Treaty is or is not beneficial and how those who have already ratified the Treaty behaved. If I remember correctly the Rules of Procedure, I'm making a conditional procedural motion that it will be after the Secretary's speech. I would not consider it polite if we voted in favour, if possible, and the Minister had no chance at all to respond to this first speech on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u13	So you wish to vote after the Minister has spoken, to interrupt until an opinion is available...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u14	Before the Minister's reply to the written question is available. This will be the House Press, which will have its number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u15	Okay. So we will vote on this after the speech by the Minister, who I give the floor because she has been signed up with priority rights for the debate. I am merely warning the Minister that at 16.00 I will interrupt this point anyway and we will continue with the fixed point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u16	I get it. Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I appreciate President Stanjura not quoting from Harry Potter here, but at least sticking to the facts. So I'll try to respond. As regards the European Commission's competence to supervise compliance with budgetary discipline, these are the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact, which are already binding on the Czech Republic as for any other country of the European Union. A fiscal pact doesn't change anything about these rules. The fiscal pact has nothing to do with joining the euro area. This results from its nature and the nature of the agreement concluded between both euro area countries and non-euro countries, including those who do not seek entry into the euro area. A classic example is Denmark, which has a permanent exception from joining the euro area and at the same time has entered into a fiscal pact. I would reiterate that ratification in the form presented to Parliament will guarantee full participation in the euro area summits. In practice, although I have been involved in some negotiations as Minister of Finance, we cannot actually take part in negotiations concerning the future arrangement of the euro area, competitiveness, etc., and this would of course be very important for us. There's been a lot of information. As regards the nature of this Treaty, not only did the Legislative Council of the Government and the Government say so. Both of these entities agreed that this was an economic contract because it does not contain the transfer of powers and cannot therefore be considered - it is simply a change in the voting procedure, for which we now have found the Constitutional Court No. 19/2008. The Act on the rules of budgetary responsibility, which is effective in the territory of that State, is perfectly consistent with the Treaty. We have a structural balance rule, including a corrective mechanism. It is contained in Law No. 23/2017. The debt brake is the rule of the structural balance in the financial pact, not the debt brake, as advocated by the ODS. The Government did not apply to Title III, where the demands of President Stanjura were headed, but basically for the simple reason that it wanted to reach a hearing of this law, and therefore wanted us to be able to participate in the eurosummits, regardless of the fact that all the problems relating to structural balances are contained in Law No. 23/2017. The data referred to by President Stanjura is evaluated by the European Commission at work level and will be available by the end of the year. Yes, the structural balance is correct, we have it in Act No. 23/2017, which is why we do not apply to Titles III and IV of the fiscal pact, as I have already said, especially in order for the proposal to be adopted. There has been a constant repetition of one layer of the laws that we now have in the laws on budgetary responsibility. The rule for the debt of the general government sector relative to GDP - I have already shown here the last table, there it is, we have approached the rule most in 2012 and 2013 and thank you for appreciating that they could learn from us in the countries of the European Union. Yes, we could. We have the third lowest debt within the European Union, the fourth, I apologize, the third highest surplus of public finances and the lowest unemployment. And the structural balance, which is a net balance from the economic cycle, is 1,1% of GDP, and we could go under the Budgetary Responsibility Act up to minus 1 percent of GDP. The question of who will be harmed if we do not ratify this fiscal fact. I ask another question: What are we helping? What are we helping? That the Prime Minister of this country cannot attend the meetings of the Eurogroup at the European Council? That's good for us? That the Prime Minister can't participate in discussions about where the eurozone will go? It cannot express its views there, even if we have a prime minister who speaks four languages and is able to say what and why the Czech Republic is demanding? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u17	The Minister has completed her speech, so can we vote on the proposal tabled by President Stanjura, and this is to interrupt the discussion of this point until you have received the reply to the written interpelation - which will be submitted by you, Mr President? Just to identify the interpelation somehow, because she doesn't have a number yet, I assume, is that your interpelation? So, pending the receipt of a reply to Mr Stanjura's written interpellation on this matter. There. We all know what we're voting on. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to the interruption - I apologise, I declare the vote confusing. I'm checking you all out, and I'm asking for a new registration. We will therefore vote on the motion to interrupt under the conditions that I have announced. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's a 194 vote, it's 151, it's 62, it's 62. This proposal was not adopted. I have here a factual remark from Mr Kopřiva, if that is the case. No, it's not, it's downloading. Mrs Válková is enrolled in the debate, but I do not want to interrupt you even after a minute of speaking, so if you agree, I would interrupt this point. I'll hand over the meeting's management, and we'll proceed at 16 o'clock with a fixed point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-001-061.u18	I thank the Vice-President. I'm taking over the chair. Have a good afternoon, everyone. We wait till 4:00, which is now. That point has been closed, I presume. Respectfully interrupted. This concludes the planned block of first reading. And now it's fixed to a fourth hour point.
