ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-009-030.u1	30. Proposal by Members Jan Hamáček, Jan Birk, Kateřina Valachová and Petr Dolínek for the Act amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labor Code, as amended, and some other laws /German press 109/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 109/1. I ask that Mr Jan Hamáček, Mr Jan Hamáček, present the proposal as the appellants - which is not going to happen, so one of the other plaintiffs, which will be Mrs Valachová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-009-030.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me present the Parliamentary Bill of Social Democratic Members to amend the Labour Code as amended and some other laws. This is a proposal that should be approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the payment of the first three days of illness should be renewed. The reason for submitting this bill is for us the fact that we regard the failure to pay these three days as unfair and consider them to be the punishment of sick people. In other words, the legislation of the Karenary period, which was not paid in the first three days of the disease, was introduced for the first time into our law by Law No. 261/2007 Sb., on stabilization of public budgets. The proposal itself, i.e. stabilizing public budgets, lets you know that the main reason for such an adjustment was the effort to reduce budgetary requirements. This amendment was rejected in the first phase by the Constitutional Court. Subsequently, the Constitutional Court dealt with a revised proposal that the then right-wing governments would insist on the proposal that the first three days of sickness should not be paid. And because at the same time there was also a reduction in insurance of the employees' parties, the Constitutional Court carried out a test of constitutionality with a positive result, i.e., the legislation left in effect. However, this happened in 2012. Even so, there were great controversy with this at the time, and we still feel from this point on that the adjustment of the material security of employees at the time of temporary incapacity for work cannot be subject to changes in the economy, whether the economy is succeeding or failing, because health is the most valuable value, and this adjustment should also correspond to that. Moreover, we have to argue very hard that the sickness insurance system is based on an insurance policy, and there is no reason for the first three days of sickness not to be covered. Here, in terms of budgets, I just remind you that due to the proper management of past years, the sickness account was still surplus last year. This means that there is no reason in this regard either. Moreover, it is ridiculous that, if insurance is chosen in this way, we do not cover what we are primarily supposed to cover from it, and these are the costs of employees in the event of illness. The aim of our proposal is therefore to remedy this situation and to respond in particular to the situation of low-income workers and employees of socially weak people, especially single-parents or disabled people. I note that there are tens of thousands of people who are losing thousands of crowns in their income, which is already low, and they are getting on the line of poverty because of their illness, although they have previously paid their sickness insurance. Of course, we must fundamentally reject this. [[There's a constant high level of noise in the room.]] It should also be noted that if an employee receives a minimum wage, i.e. under current legislation CZK 73.20 per hour, his compensation is CZK 39.60 per hour, i.e. per day CZK 317 per hour at eight-hour working time. Of this, the employee must provide a living for himself, his family, to pay for the medicines and, if necessary, to pay a regulatory fee of CZK 90 per visit to the emergency room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-009-030.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please let the appellant have the opportunity to present to us this proposal. I'm asking you to keep your voice down one more time. Please, madam, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-009-030.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thus, a large percentage of employees do not reach these amounts because the employer does not employ them for a specified week's working time. We have a large group of employees with low-income employees who have a part-time job. If we also consider how many employees, and I note in public administration, that is to say, the employees of the state, municipalities and regions, which we should also consider, are located at the minimum wage level, or even below the minimum wage, it is appropriate that this bill, if you would approve it, improve the position of a huge number of employees, ensure them dignity at a time when they are most vulnerable, that is at a time of illness. We believe that on this principle, the Social Democrats identify with all political parties. [[18.40 hours]] With regard to the costs incurred by employers to pay compensation for wages, employees in the first three days of incapacity for work, after discussions with stakeholders, but also with social partners, we have taken on our, say, last compromise that employers and employees were able to reach in 2016 to 2017. We therefore propose compensation for employers' parties by reducing the premium rate by 0,2 percentage points on sickness insurance. The effect of this reduction in premiums should therefore be that this change will also be compensated for by employers, while at the same time ensuring to employees what I believe is fair and fair in our judgment, i.e. reimbursement of the first three days of the disease as well as the following amount of 60 per cent of the average wage. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for listening to this presentation and I expect, of course, a debate that will undoubtedly be relevant, and we will undoubtedly take into account the rights of employees, which are almost four million in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-009-030.u5	I thank Mrs Valachová, who has presented the proposal for us for the plaintiffs. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading by Mr Marek Novák. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-009-030.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft bill tabled in Parliament is abolishing the Institute of Cardinal Time. These are the first three unpaid days of temporary incapacity. The costs incurred by employers of reimbursement obligations for employees in the first three days of incapacity for work are offset by a reduction in the premium rate of 0,2 percentage points on sickness insurance. The Government has given a general consensus on the fact that specific parametric changes to the sickness insurance scheme will be discussed further. As regards the amount of sickness insurance premiums and the corresponding amount of sickness benefit, they must still be subject to further negotiations. I recommend releasing the proposal for second reading and ordering the Social Policy Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-009-030.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before I open up a general debate, I'm going to introduce you to the apologies. Mr Benešík apologizes from 18.40 to the end of the negotiations for working reasons, Mrs Markéta Adamová apologises from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 18.30 for personal reasons and Mr Robert králíček apologises from 18.30 for work reasons. I am now opening a general debate. At the moment, three Members and Members are enrolled in it. Mr. Jan Bauer will be the first to speak. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-009-030.u8	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few comments on this parliamentary proposal. And in advance, I'm telling you, I find him very unhappy. In my opinion, the motion to abolish the Karen period is the evergreen of the present left. I confess that I do not understand this very much because I think there are a number of other leftist topics that could be the flagship of the Czech Social Democratic Party. And I've also been watching the media report the media in the last few weeks, and in practice, this measure isn't going to help people anyway. On the other hand, the choice of the topic on which the Left wants to attract its voters is certainly not my place to criticize, because it is none of my business. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the non-standard circumstances which accompany the submission of this proposal for a debate in Parliament. This proposal is presented with the support of the current government in demise. However, the Prime Minister's statement in the demise of Andrej Babiš and other ministers shows that they are not satisfied with him and have their own idea of what changes in the setting of the Karen age should look like. So what's it really gonna look like or what it's gonna look like? Will the government of Andrej Babiš in the demise push through this proposal in a situation where it does not agree with the Czech Social Democratic Party on joint governance, or will it not support this proposal? We don't really know. I would like to say that this proposal is made despite the clear disapproval of employers. It used to be a good practice in the past that measures with an impact on employees and employers were first foreseen for tripartite, and the government sought a reasonable agreement between all parties involved. Today, this responsibility clearly rests on the government in the demise of Andrej Babiš. It is their responsibility, especially in a situation where this proposal is sent here with consent. In this context, I would like to remind the Prime Minister of the resignation of Babiš that it was also his Members who did not like it during the last parliamentary term when the trade unions, with the support of some ČSSD Members, pushed the proposals into the Labour Code to their advantage without reaching any agreement with employers. I am convinced that the setting up of the period and the conditions for payment of sickness must result from a mutual agreement within the Council on economic and social agreements. Dear ladies and gentlemen, maybe one more personal note to conclude. Logically, this Chamber of Deputies is composed of many professions and we also have representatives of the business sphere. And I confess that there are many successful entrepreneurs here, whom I appreciate very much, and, among other things, from their mouths, and they are often members of the government's ANO movement, we hear the call to support the business environment, to try to cultivate the business environment with reasonable proposals. And I confess that I am terribly curious about how, in particular, colleagues from the government movement YES will vote on this proposal, because if they lean towards this proposal, I think that those calls for support for entrepreneurship, support for the Czech industry, support for the culture of the business environment in the Czech Republic will never sound credible again in my opinion. I would also like to say that this proposal, the existing one that pays, has been very hard to bear in the past. It was a complex compromise that all the decisive parties had to agree on, and I think it is very unfortunate that this hard-born compromise is about to change at the moment. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to file a motion for rejection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-009-030.u9	Thank you. Next in the debate, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, will be prepared by Mrs Richterová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-009-030.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to express my opinion on the proposal. And I must first say that, as KSČM, we have made a similar proposal in the past, or more or less almost the same, three times already. But unfortunately, he didn't vote, and until now, we have a chance that she jumped over us a little bit, thank you, ČSSD, where she was a little faster. [[A Member of the War suggests: He skipped.]] But we are happy for that, even though there are some issues that we are not fully identified with, such as other compensations for employers etc. They have already received at least two compensations in the past, and this is, as we perceive, another concession. In any case, I say frankly that we are in favour of this proposal. We are pleased that we are also discussing the amount of 60% of our employees' compensation again. And allow me only a little bit to respond to the previous debate that has taken place here, including through Mr President. I understand that we may also be talking about an evergreen left on the right. Maybe I could throw it on the side of the right, that they'll always be fundamentally against it. Of course, we also know about employers' arguments, because I was also present at one of these discussions on the government's ground, and I must say that the arguments from employers' parties did not really seem adequate to me, which was very unpleasant for me, as well as the style of expression. I must say that I am very sorry that employers' representatives are doing this because I know a lot of employers who have absolutely no problem with abolishing the age of the card. [[18.50 hours]] On the contrary, if we take the bonuses that employers use today, and I think it's nothing unknown, that they're actually using their own, that they're paying three sick days and they have it as a bonus, or they're giving other alternatives, it wouldn't make anything so important for employers. And I think it is really necessary to say openly that it is a fundamental support and a fundamental attitude towards our employees, because, I have already mentioned it somewhere, three days, the first days of illness are more or less essential for the further development of the employee's illness. So what's better for the employer - having a long-term sick person, or at least five days away from being sick? And I don't think it's basically something that's really being abused and abused. I think that these are simply the arguments of some employers, which, of course, are also, in some way, medialy shaken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-009-030.u11	Thank you, Madame. Mrs Richterová will also speak in the general debate. Mr. Mr. Juříček will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-009-030.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, a brief position for the pirate club. We have already stressed today that we also feel that it is not fair for a person to pay for sickness insurance and then during the first week of illness, which is most common that a person is sick for one week, stays completely without income... so it stays without income for the first three days and the other two days actually with a very significantly reduced income. So we are in favour of letting this proposal go to second reading to discuss it. And in particular, we consider it very important that this possible proposal be linked to an e-Clerk. We believe that it can still be implemented. It is something that would give an instrument, a possible prevention of abuse, so that employers have the easiest control possible by immediately receiving information that their employee is incompetent, such as his place of residence, etc. So summarized and underlined, we certainly don't want people getting sick to work to increase other secondary costs. We are very much in favour of allowing employers to benefit from what is called sick days, so that employees can stay home a few days a year due to virosis, perhaps without a doctor's visit. We hope that at second reading we will be able to discuss in substance the best system settings for all parties.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-009-030.u13	Thank you. It is next in the general debate that Mr Juříček is the last Member to sign up so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-009-030.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think you're going to expect me to be here for this sort of thing. But I have to say a few arguments, and it's not gonna be anything like the philosophical bullshit I often hear here. Sorry about that. First of all, it's always existed here, and when I was Vice Prime Minister of the Union of Industry and I was in charge of negotiating with the unions, there was always that what didn't happen at the level of employers and unions was never done by the government. I understand, of course, that we must now put together a government in some way and that these are some concessions. But this is a concession that is not a concession to entrepreneurs, it is above all an economic problem of the whole Czech Republic. And I'll explain right away. Today we have some 260,000 seats available. We can't make enough. We've been chasing people to work so much, discipline has deteriorated terribly over the last few years, where people, even if they don't come to work, will give you information by law, when they're obliged to give three days to incapacity. So you don't really know what's wrong with them for three days. And now you're talking about hurting the businessman. Yes, but that's not the basic problem that businessmen won't have employees. This is the problem of the whole economy and the entire economic planning and solution and economy as a whole. And I'll explain it to you right away. I can prove at my firm that it will be 4 percentage points, but that's not just on my firm, but we had a clear proof of that in the whole Union of Industry back then, and it's not some assumption, it's the fact that 4 percentage points will increase the disease. So if anyone has 2.5 percent today, they're going to be 6.5. If anybody has 4 percent, they'll be 8. That's one factor. So what does that mean? That 4 percent of the people employed in industry as a whole would be missing. That means that that's at least 40 to 50,000 people to the 260,000 people who are missing today, and we're not enough and we're rejecting contracts because we don't have people. And that's the impact - of the 4.5 trillion crowns that industry makes, so that's about 160 billion, and 160 billion. It is roughly 32 billion crowns in taxes. So that's the biggest problem. The fact that businesses are going to cost around CZK 5 billion is even less than 160 billion and 32 billion in taxes. And the fact that it's going to cost a health insurance company, well, of course, because someone has to pay for it. That means another 3.5 billion. Otherwise, I have to say that it is so incredible that we would have found this without finding any other support arguments and pillars to increase discipline, appetite for work, motivation, stimulation of people, and to do so we still have tools for control, such as. This is an inability to release this at a time in which we have a situation like this, so please, it's a total economic senseless cocktail. I beg you, let's be aware of that. I'm not saying that it's not possible to put in place a quarantine period sometime in the future, but, for God's sake, let's judge all things with situational factors! Why would we cut down a branch under us and make populist decisions and make decisions against all the big companies, middle companies and small firms just because we need to do something here to please our employees? Well, it really is an incredibly pointless cocktail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-009-030.u15	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Janulík is registered. We can make a real note by 7:00. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-009-030.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Well, I've said it from this place over the years x-fold, and I'll say it again if there isn't some sensible control system in place - unlike many of you, I expose those incompetents very often, and the system is very massively abused. We grew up feeling like they'd come to the convenience store, that they'd just come and say, well, I'd take a sick day. I just want a sick day. They feel like it's just... You just say the word, and you get the sick one. And this is just another step in making these people stronger. Let me give you an example. I've seen that the patient doesn't come to check even though he's in work. And to the question of why he didn't show up for inspection, he answered, well, I was on vacation in Greece. So there's this feeling in these people that you're just... it's not really anything. He'll take a sick leave and fly away for our money, for everyone's money, for his vacation. And he doesn't feel like it's wrong at all. And that's what's grown in these people over the decades. And this is just another step towards strengthening it. If it goes hand in hand with it, it'll tighten up the control, because for every county, for thousands of incompetents, there are four controllers tops. They won't be able to check anything. And at an electronic time when we have surveillance systems, smart cell phones, and so on, there should have been some kind of control system in place by now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-009-030.u17	Thank you. Since other Members are still registered with factual remarks, I am not ending the general debate, but I am interrupting this point. I note that there has been a proposal in the general debate to reject the proposal tabled by Mr Jan Bauer. I also conclude today's meeting day of the Chamber of Deputies. We will meet here again tomorrow, May 30, at 9 pm, when we will continue to discuss the item from the third reading block. Have a good night.
