ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-26-ps2017-006-07-000-000.u1	Good morning, everyone, please calm down. [[A silence.]] Quiet in the hall, please. Let's get started. [[The noise in the hall continues, the President accepts further apologies.]] Good morning, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. It is 9 o'clock, and I am opening another meeting on the sixth meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. Mr Juránek will vote with replacement card number 2 and Mr Kolovratník with replacement card number 1. And Vice-President Hamáček will vote with replacement card number 14. I agree that the following Members have asked to apologise for their absence at today's meeting: Mrs Dana Balcarová for the whole day for health reasons, Mr Bělobrádek for family reasons, Mr Benešík for the whole day for personal reasons, Mr Birke for work reasons, Mr Bláha for no reason, Mr Bžoch for health reasons, Mr Alexander Černý for the whole day for personal reasons, Mr Dražilová for health reasons, Mr Elfmark for work reasons, Mr Feri for work reasons, Mr Golasowská for no reason, Mr Grebeníček for working reasons for the whole day, Mr Hájek for family reasons, Mr Hanzel for reasons of work, Member Holík for family reasons, Mr Klaus for reasons of employment, Member Kobza for reasons of foreign travel, Member Koníček for the whole day, Mr Kopřiva for family reasons, Member Kytýr from 13 hours for reasons of work. prosit klid down. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] Mr Lipavský for health reasons, Mrs Majerová Zahradníková for personal reasons for the whole day, Mrs Malá for work reasons, Mrs Matušovská for personal reasons, Mrs Mauritzová for work reasons, Mrs Maxová for family reasons, Mr Mihola for family reasons, Mrs Němcová for reasons of foreign travel, Mr Okamura for health reasons from 13:00 p.m., Mr Onderka for work reasons, Mr Plzák for health reasons, Mr Růžička for health reasons, Mr Staněk Antonín for no reason, Mr Staněk Pavel for reasons of foreign travel, Mr Stanjura for no reason, Mrs Šafránková for personal reasons, Mr Špičák for personal reasons, Mr Vácha František for health reasons, Mrs Valachová for work reasons, Mr Ventruba for working reasons. Order! [[The noise in the hall does not stop, a reminder from the diaper that the President is not heard.]] We've already started, I'd really like some peace. I know I'm just reading the note. Once again, Mrs Valachová, for work reasons, Mr Ventruba for work reasons, Mr Vích for work reasons, Mr Volný Jan from 12 o'clock on health grounds, Mr Vondrák for work reasons, Mr Marek Výborný for the whole day for work reasons and Mr Zahradník for personal reasons. [[There's a loud noise in the hall!]] We are also apologized to the following members of the government: Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, Minister Hüner Tomáš, for reasons of work, Minister Milek Jiří for reasons of work, Minister Němcová Jaroslava for all day for reasons of work, Minister Robert Pelikán for reasons of foreign travel in the context of meetings of the Justice and Home Affairs Council in Bulgaria, Minister Robert Plaga for reasons of work and Minister Ilja Šmíd for all day for reasons of work. I'd like to ask my colleagues on the left for peace! Thank you. [[The noise lasts!]] I have yet to hear from Mr Okleštěk that he will vote with replacement card number 4. And I have two more apologies, Mr Jan Schiller apologizes to us because of illness for the whole day and Mr Lukáš Kolařík from 13:00 on account of negotiations in the electoral region. Today we will continue with the last item approved by the sixth meeting, that is to say the point
