ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u1	179. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations which I hereby open. The list of replies to the written interpelations with which Members disagreed and were therefore placed on the agenda of the 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. On the agenda of the 20th meeting The Chamber of Deputies submitted a total of six replies to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with, and therefore asked to be placed on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to inform all Members that, in accordance with Rule 112 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, 6 of the Rules of Procedure, if the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpelling and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or further discuss it. We will now proceed to discuss the responses to each interpellation. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš replied to Mr Jakub Michálek's interpellation on the electronic file. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 268. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. This obstacle persists, but I am opening a debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking if anyone's interested in the show. Mr... [[Messenger. He doesn't want to get out.]] Is it broken? The President is not. Okay. So the obstacle lasts... I'm ending this interpelation. It will be discussed when the Prime Minister is present. Former Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán responded to Mr Jakub Michálek's interview on possible bias of the court and prosecutors. Interpelation, along with the reply and further response of the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek, is presented as a House press 269. The discussion of this response has also been interrupted in the presence of the Minister of Justice, who is present at the moment. I can therefore open the debate this time. The first shall be the Mr Interpelling Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I'd like to briefly remind you of what's going on. I interviewed the Minister of Justice a long time ago earlier about the fact that some judges and prosecutors who work in Prague receive at the same time from hl. cities of Prague cheap subsidized flats, and at the same time it is possible that they decide in cases where they perform hl. City of Prague. Therefore, since he lives in apartments from hl. the cities of Prague, which are very heavily subsidized, even it occurs in professional publications that in the Soviet Union and in other states judges are being held essentially dependent by the fact that they live in subsidized apartments and receive various benefits, so it seemed to me as a matter of course, and that is why I asked the minister to deal with it. I think it's rather undignified that hl. Prague rents its apartments for citizens with social needs, judges and prosecutors who take CZK 100,000 a month and do not really need to receive subsidized flats and live in an apartment for which they pay 5,000 a month with rent of CZK 60 per square metre. So here I think it would be good to do something about it. I understand that the situation is complicated and that the Ministry has limited powers. However, I spoke to the city prosecutor in Prague for example, and the agreement with the city prosecutor in Prague was that he would invite those concerned prosecutors who lived in the subsidised apartments to make amends and try to settle the relationship. Unfortunately, not one of those prosecutors has agreed to pay market rent, although he has the appropriate salary, so I'm a little scared of what it says about the state's staffing office. I'd like to ask the Minister if he can think of a way to deal with this matter, which concerns citizens. the cities of Prague who need social housing and cannot get into these apartments because they are occupied by twenty, thirty, forty judges and prosecutors, if there is nothing that can be done about it after all, because the reasons for bias especially when decisions are made on cases of hl. the cities of Prague, they can be there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u3	Thank you. Let me read you a few apologies. Mrs Kateřina Valachová apologises from 9.00 to 11.00 for health reasons, Dominik Feri apologizes between 9.00 and 9.45 for work reasons, Mr Aleš Juchelka apologizes from 9.00 to 9.00 for work reasons, Mrs Markéta Pekarová apologizes Adamová from 9.00 to 10.00 for work reasons, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes and also Mr Jaroslav Bžoch for work reasons for this morning's meeting. Mr Jaroslav Martinů apologizes from 12.30 to the end of the day, Mr Milan Hnilička apologises from 9.00 to 12.00, he apologizes to Lubomír Zaorálek all day for health reasons, Mr Richter apologizes from 9.00 to 11.00 for working reasons, Mr Jiří Bláha apologizes from 9.00 to the end of the day for working reasons, Mrs Květa Matušovská is sorry 25 and 26 for personal reasons for whole days. Well, I'm sorry, Minister, there were more. Please, you can respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u4	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Michálek, honourable Members, I may try, because it has been a while since the question of interpellation, to put the matter in context. However, first let me apologize for my absence at the meeting 13. 9. when this interpelation was to be first discussed. It was for a reason that I was duly excused. I was on my honeymoon and it was planned long before the current government was established, so perhaps now everything should be okay. As for the problem itself, the core of the problem lies in the deep 1990s, when, in the context of dealing with the then human resources crisis in the judiciary, the capital city of Prague adopted certain rules for allocating urban flats to selected professions, among which, in addition to the employees of the prosecutors and courts, judges and prosecutors themselves fell. The aim at that time was to ensure the proper performance of these professions and activities that come here, as well as for the capital city of Prague. Since then, of course, the situation has changed substantially from the point of view of the remuneration of judges and prosecutors, but there has also been a change in those contracts which were originally concluded for a fixed period and are therefore now concluded for an indefinite period. This is just for starters, how it often happens that judges and prosecutors inhabit such flats. At the same time, it must be said that my predecessor, Minister Pelikán, has already taken several steps in this matter, which we continue to follow continuously, that is, we continue to do what has been done. 27. 6. The Minister addressed the mayor of the capital city of Prague by his letter in which he recommended, on the one hand, that the rules for the allocation of flats be amended so that they were allocated only to the administrative staff of the courts and to the prosecutors whose salary is diametrically different from that of the prosecutors and judges themselves, and at the same time recommended that a certain income ceiling be set in the rules for the allocation of those flats. By the way, it is the income of households that is one of the things that is said when applying for such an apartment, but then it is probably not working perfectly with it. It is true that the letter remained unanswered due to the formation of a new coalition within the capital city of Prague. I will make a very similar call to the new mayor as soon as it becomes clear who he will be. Basically, I will repeat the recommendations - because we cannot dictate to the capital of Prague - which I find rational. At the same time, it must be said that he was also addressed by a letter from the President of the Municipal Court in Prague, who was advised not to propose the individual judges, but only the employees of the administration, that is to say, writers, senior court officials, officials, etc., when selecting those apartments that are subsequently rented by the capital city of Prague, the exact same step, as Mr Michálek mentioned, was taken by the city prosecutor doktor Erazím. In other words, it should not, of course, be possible for the future, if this is combined with the measures that we recommend to the capital city of Prague, that these apartments will be acquired by judges and prosecutors, but will be allocated more necessary. On the other hand, there is one thing to say. The cost of this apartment, as I did not officially probe, including energy costs, is about CZK 14,000, which, of course, from the point of view of the capital city of Prague, is not very high, but will still be unattainable for many court employees. If someone has CZK 18,000 gross, just like a living person, they can never afford an apartment like this, and people often commute. But that's the second problem. It may happen, but it will be again in the capital city of Prague that they have been left vacant for some time, because the candidates at least from the courts and the prosecutors will not be. So we actually have one problem here, or maybe quasi-problem, and that is whether it is right for those judges and prosecutors who are already using them to remain in those apartments, and if there are any tools to possibly get them to leave them, and who has those instruments, whether it is the Minister of Justice, or the President of the Court of Justice. There's one thing to say here. They all use the apartments on the basis of a legally concluded lease agreement, based on a procedure that is in accordance with the rules of the capital city of Prague for the allocation of apartments. And frankly, the Minister of Justice has no tools to force these judges or prosecutors, in their private relationship, to terminate the lease agreement, to terminate it and to move elsewhere. It doesn't fall under any jurisdiction that the Justice Department has, it won't fit under the administration of the judiciary. They live in those apartments, they don't judge. It should be said that a similar problem in terms of the absence of any competence is also on the side of the President of the Municipal Court, respectively. City Attorney. So it could be in the order of recommendation. On the other hand, it's not like all unisons refuse to solve the problem. I myself have received in the past few days, I feel that last week, a letter from a judge who told me that he was shutting down the lease and leaving the apartment, and not because he felt that he was doing something wrong, that he was living in accordance with a lease he was ending, but he just realized that maybe the apartment could come in handy to someone more needy. I will hope that similar steps by judges and prosecutors will follow, but I do not really have a democratic rule of law, and I will honestly admit that I would not even want to have powers that would enable the Minister of Justice to intervene in private relations, to tell them where they are and where they are not to live, what they should or should not buy. Of course, we also considered whether there was any systemic bias towards the capital city of Prague, if there was no reason to consider any disciplinary liability, but the conclusions came out fairly clearly that we did not. The very fact that someone lives somewhere, everyone lives somewhere, does not yet create bias for particular relationships. It was, of course, argued here that if they were performing on a matter where there was a public official from the capital city of Prague or the capital city of Prague itself, it would be a participant that it could provoke some bias. If we find such suspicions in any particular case, it will certainly be appropriate to take very strong steps to ensure that such a judge or prosecutor is punished by the shop, or not only the mill, but from the very fact that someone has a lease with the capital city of Prague, and some even have a lease agreement and the system is more complex, the bias of such a judge does not constitute such a judgment. It would be absurd to say that it should be other needs, such as teachers, to import that, for example, all children of representatives of the capital city of Prague or city councilmen will be in the school of 1st graders, will somehow be persecuted. After all, ad absurdum taken, the judges pay the state. Then it could be said that they are biased actually in every case, where they act as one of the sides of the state, which, of course, is not. In other words, it is a problem that we want to continue to deal with. We will take steps, recommendations to the capital city of Prague, we will continue to appeal to judges and prosecutors through the President of the Municipal Court or the Head of State's Attorney, but we cannot force these people out and it is not possible to import or hold anyone responsible, given that they are not doing anything illegal. And I firmly believe that, like the one judge who informed me of that step, he will consider this step very seriously, and maybe he will do to the rest of you. That's what I can say. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to appreciate the very serious approach that the Minister has taken to this interview and that he is very serious about it, which I think is exemplary. I am also glad that he has brought information that one judge has already decided to deal with this matter so as not to raise any doubts. I will simply respond briefly to the matters mentioned by the Minister. I think that there is absolutely no need to worry that apartments for social cases needed in the capital of Prague would remain vacant because those people who have this social need, for example, are seniors with various health disadvantages, so there are a lot of them, and I only got to this case because it was the lady who approached me who had a senior mother with a handicap and could not get through the waiting lists of the capital city of Prague to get the social apartment and pointed out that it was the judges who lived in social apartments. That's why I got to it and how I handled it. I really appreciate you promising to address the new mayor. I believe that the new mayor will take appropriate steps in this matter so that there may be a convergence of rents towards the market level, when judges already live there, so that they do not have subsidised discounted prices. I agree that there is a big problem with court staff if they have a salary that does not allow them to find housing in Prague under market conditions, it is a fundamental and serious problem that the Ministry of Justice should address. Of course, the Ministry of Justice is in charge of the part of the budget that regulates salaries for these professions. We have long pointed out to the Prime Minister that certain professions in the judiciary, whether they are judicial assistants, waiters and other professions, which, for example, are also fundamentally involved in the exercise of the judiciary, are undervalued on a salary basis and that we cannot then expect the quality of the judiciary to increase sharply. As far as the question of bias is concerned, the argument is not only based on the fact that the judge lives in an apartment rented to him by the capital city of Prague, but is based on the fact that the apartment is subsidized from about two thirds of the capital city of Prague. And try to relate, Minister, to the fact that you are suing the capital city of Prague, where the capital city of Prague has harmed you in some illegal way, perhaps its employee has crossed you and it was in the performance of the city police, and, on the one hand, you are suing as a party to proceedings with the same rights and obligations, and on the other hand, the capital city of Prague is standing and you are judged by a judge who lives in a subsidised apartment from the capital city of Prague, so of course you cannot have the same treatment and there are legal grounds for bias according to the relevant procedural rules. I don't think I have access to these cases, of course, to a case database like the Justice Department has. I have no competence to investigate these cases. But given the number of cases solved by the capital city of Prague, I fear that such cases were and that it could have played a role. If the publication of this case will at least help those judges to take care of it and draw attention to their bias, I will be very happy because it will ensure a fair trial for those who might be concerned. I would like to conclude by saying that if we fail to achieve a situation in which judges will live in Prague for market rents and will not occupy social housing, I will consider the possibility of a solution by law, so that the judge does not have the legal option of living in apartments which are intended for social cases and which are subsidised. Because it seems that without the legal competence of the Ministry, there is really no further action in this matter. I'd like to work together to sort this out in some way. Thank you, and that's all I wanted to say about this interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u7	Thank you. The Minister wishes to respond. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u8	Just very briefly. We were here yesterday discussing for quite a long time the draft State Budget Act, which includes the solution to one of the problems that I pointed out where the administrative staff of the courts and prosecutors are among those with which the most increase in the amount of the salaries is by 14, respectively. 15 per cent if rounded to the full percent. That means, of course, we are aware of the problem of remuneration. We're dealing with him. It's a little off the hook, but I felt the need to mention it. Of course, when it comes to bias, it is to a certain extent a matter for the parties, but I firmly believe that judges are such great professionals that they can estimate when to apply their bias and when not, if the parties no longer apply it. However, as I said, it is necessary to judge each individual case individually. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u9	Thank you. I ask: is anyone else interested in speaking on this point in the debate? Excuse me, I have to read some of the apologies that came to me. Mr Radek Koten apologizes for working reasons until the end of the day. Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologises from today's meeting from 9.00 to 10.30. Mr Jiří Mihola apologizes from 9.00 to the end of the day for health reasons. Mr Marek is sorry Výborný from 9.00 to 11.00 for reasons of work. He apologizes to Minister Alena Schillerová on account of a foreign business trip from the entire day of the meeting. Mr Dominik Feri apologizes between 12.00 and 13.00 for reasons of work. I don't know if that apology's a second time around. Mr Miloslav Janulík apologizes between 10.30 and 12.30 for work reasons. Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch apologizes for the morning meeting due to urgent work duties. If no one is reporting, I am ending the debate and I am asking Mr Michálek if he is proposing a resolution. It's not like that. So I thank you all and end the discussion of this written interpelation. Next, there is a written interpelation to the Minister of Finance. Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová replied to Mr Leo Luzar's interpellation on the optimal use and evaluation of relevant EU superstrategic raw materials in the interests of the Czech industry and the Czech state, Ostrava-Carvinská doly. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 280. I am opening the debate and giving the floor to Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u10	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the Minister is not present, as I have just heard. She's excused for a foreign trip. However, I will allow myself to present my intervention because I think that what we do not have at the moment is too much time in a matter which, at first sight, seems complicated from the title I used, yet it may be quite simple, but it points to a certain problem that we have encountered in the previous parliamentary term when dealing with the OKD issue. The issue of OKD, and allow me a slight excursion before I begin the interpelation itself, was linked to the fact that the State was looking for a solution for this enterprise, which was threatened with immediate liquidation and the release of a large number of employees. At that time there was a situation where the ministries argued among themselves about the most appropriate solution and the government parties YES 2011 and ČSSD wanted to use this solution for their political benefit, logically. Unfortunately, one government party had the Ministry, which had under it the state enterprise DIAMO, which apparently and clearly, by virtue of the way it was set up and its staffing, such as technical equipment, is destined for such actions by the state towards these companies. The other government party had the Ministry of Finance and, of course, Prisco, a state-owned company that was set up to function within financial institutions to keep an eye on, help banks and various other companies, in other words, mainly through money. [[9.30 hours]] In the previous government, energy outweighed the situation through the Ministry of Finance, and therefore the state enterprise Prisco became the one that solves the situation in OKD. But the consequence of this procedure here is that people who are certainly good economic and knowledgeable are rather financial people. These are people who look at the problem through money, through agendas that have numbers, through agendas that are clear. It evaluates graphs, evaluates outputs and tables. And there's a problem that turns out to be maybe wider than just a problem... There is a problem that may prove to be a broader problem, which is not only cursed in numbers, but is the problem of the future, the procedure that Prisco has chosen in the framework of OKD, and now I will speak specifically to the OKD part of the Paskov mine. Just for the record, it's a mine that benefits high-quality coal, so-called coking coal, for which there's a huge demand. It is one of the best raw materials in the Czech Republic, perhaps also in Europe. She decided to follow a procedure that was purely and clearly financial. On the one hand, it gave economic costs associated with liquidation, economic costs associated with the current operation of the downturn and, on the other hand, it gave social economic costs. It came from this, to this society, that the best way to close this mine, to fill it up, to preserve it in such a state that there could no longer be other costs at the expense of the state, and, as they say, to close the level above this shaft. But with the fact that the technicians say that if by chance the possibility of re-selling and extracting coking coal would be advantageous, the chosen methodology, which was chosen by this company and, of course, by the subordinate company of OKD, is non-refundable. In other words, we'll never get to that shaft again. I consider this to be a huge mistake, and that is why I am talking about strategic raw materials and their possibilities and preserving the approach. From my point of view, it means putting on one side the value of the amount of resources that cost maintenance of the mine in a canned state. In other words, for ventilation to be carried out, for basic maintenance to be carried out, so that there is a need for a number of personnel to take care of it. That would be a clear load of this shaft. That shaft doesn't produce profit right now, of course, because it wouldn't mine coal. But this is some sum. And now we can have fun if it's six million a year, ten million a year. But I think we're going to move here in these sums of millions of crowns to preserve the possibility at any time in the future to preserve this shaft, to make this shaft operational and to immediately begin to benefit from high-quality coking coal. That would, in my opinion, be a good procedure. Prisco, since it is mainly run by economists, says that it would burden the state budget, logically, that it could also cause some social impact on employees and that this is only a delaying of some agony to this company. That's why I was intrigued that there was a private investor, maybe a dreamer. But who else a few years ago thought it was possible to fire an electric car into space and just let it fly? Who thought, not long ago, that two big cities could be connected by a pipe, put in that pipe, drain the air, and within a vacuum, operate the transportation of people in a pipe? And now it's being built. They're visionaries, and they're people looking for procedures to guide technology forward. One such person with a much more sober project visited me and said that he had a project that is scientifically well-founded, which is discussed in professional circles, and the project talks about how to use this shaft as a source of electricity in a cumulative and compensatory manner. I don't want to burden you with the technical details that are linked to this, I'm just going to give you a few numbers that are in their material. We're talking about electricity production, which would be 47 gigawatts a year. Which is already a decent power plant, 47 gigawatts, which this device could produce absolutely carbon-free, ecologically, within the highest possible environmental standards. The synergy effect here would be to preserve the shaft. In other words, the state wouldn't be worth a penny, the state would save it for not having to preserve the shaft, guard it and lead to a downturn, or even fill it up, because of course the watering is worth something. All costs would be taken over by this company and there would still be the possibility that any time this shaft can be opened and coking coal can be recovered. So any risk would be taken over by this company investigating this new energy way of utilizing the depth of the mining towers, connecting weights to the mining towers. They've got it pretty technically intriguingly thought out. And the state would only have the possibility to postpone the possible flooding, let me be on the general plane by a year or two before this company tries to see if it's viable, technically feasible. They say it's economically viable. But technically feasible, if he doesn't encounter any problems that would prevent this traffic. Yet, according to the Minister of Finance's reply, it is unrealistic and rather favors Prisco in this muddying. But without giving any arguments. I'm asking, if they're experts, why not try with a minimum risk, say, two years, which would cost you to postpone the cover because we want to make a decision. By June 30th, it was supposed to be decided, which has shifted a little bit, but this year maybe the decision should fall as far as Paskov goes. And not allow it to try? The risk won't be borne by the state if it makes good deals with the person or the company that wants to try it. And let's say they put the deposit in advance, the bank guarantees, I really don't know, here are the financialists of Prisco, who might very well know how to make sure the state doesn't lose anything, and yet we had the opportunity to preserve the raw material for possible mining, and b) try something very new, interesting, something that nobody has ever done in the world before. The risk that comes from this is that the person who visited me and therefore has this project, which I can show you, of course, is a dreamer, if I don't want to use the expression completely different, which you might think of. But it can really only be a dreamer who doesn't have to explore it, it doesn't have to be thought into detail. And this, of course, is able to uncover a group of experts, technical universities, and others to which Prisco should, in turn, turn to consult and oppose this project, as far as it is real or not. But that's not what this company did either. Therefore, I would very much beg Minister Schillerová to give the reply that has been sent to me and which is very general, just to say that she cannot do so without saying why it does not work, why we have completely thrown it away and we just want to fill it up so that this honourable House will reject this reply and ask the Minister to really enter a serious study by Prisco, or, as I mentioned at the outset, how the history of Prisco versus DIAMO was created to ask DIAMO, which has the nearest and greatest experience to do so, in the management of the state, that is to say, has mining experts, to dispose of mining activities, has experts associated with mining activities, to carry out an analysis of the project, whether it is profitable and feasible for the state, and to at least verify these steps. [[9.40 hours]] Because it's the last thing we might want to do when we know that the minerals - and I consider black coal and coking coal to be a strategic mineral raw material - may still be an untapped but important economic raw material for us in the future. I think gambling with this future is wrong. At the same time, the project, or the use, could carry with it the future for our region, the Moravian-Silesian region, which needs dreamers, which needs projects that are capable of building on existing foundations of metallurgy, mining, on existing traditions that are in this region, start building something new, but not by tearing it down and building it on green meadows, but by using the existing possibilities that this region offers. That is why I would really ask you, Madam Secretary of Finance, - and I know that this is not your area, and again I apologize for the fact that you came to it as Secretary of Finance, with permission, as blind to violins, because it is a purely technical matter. And I told the introduction why Prisco had it and not DIAMO. Nevertheless, I would very much like you to focus on the technical aspect of the future of OKD, the technical side of the future of Dolu Paskov, not just financial, as is clearly and apparently in Prisco, and they were looking for technical use. [[There's noise in the hall.]] I ask you, colleagues, to reject Mrs Schillerová's reply from the vote, which was handled by Prisco quite obviously, but really only on the financial level, does not take into account the technical aspect at all and take into account the project at all, and that the next answer should be the answer to the questions of the technical nature, why it is not possible if someone wants to pay for the state's maintenance shaft bailout and try to make modern technical approaches to electricity production, efficient electricity generation and thus maintain the possibility of benefiting from this coal in the future. I would also very much like to hear in this reply the position of DIAMO in the future of this shaft and actually it is all about gaining time and the opportunity to look not only through the numbers, but also through technology and technical implementation. And maybe the answer is that this guy is a dreamer and not a realist, he can't, but I'll still be happy to answer for it, rather than just say, we've buried it, well, we haven't seen everything, we wouldn't have done it this way today, but unfortunately, it did. That's why I want to stop it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Vondrák's point of fact, but you can also speak, no one is logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, since I am the governor of the region and we have been dealing with the OKD since we took office in this region, I would like to say that I am sure that this region sees the future in that coal mining will continue at least until 2030. It was our intention, which we presented, and we even informed Prisco's representatives on tripartite. The study is being prepared. I just want to say that this study, or the preparation of mining by 2030, will cost at least 5 billion. CZK for investments, i.e. We're going to have to put the money into it, but it's supposed to be without subsidies, that OKD will do it. And, of course, when we go back to Paskov, I feel the same way in the sense that we should be careful with the flooding, but please be careful with the dreamers. We have a working group on the edge, which is composed of the best people from the academic sphere, from industry, from industrial practice, which prepares the concept, and this includes, of course, the issue of coal mining and its further use. So I don't really think it's an interpellation to the Minister of Finance, in my opinion. We've got a working group working on it today, but as I'm saying, please, dreamers are a lot, but everything that's going to be done has to be backed up by the really professional work of people who understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u13	Thank you for keeping the limit. Member Luzar. Please, you have the floor. Excuse me, I'll just read the apology. Mr Peksa apologizes for the morning meeting for work reasons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u14	I've only been for a very short time. This interpelation really, even if it is addressed to the Minister of Finance, I said why, that is the reason, unfortunately in the previous government it was, she is innocent of it, it is not her field, it is not what she is engaged in. I would very much like it to fall under the Ministry of Industry and Trade as an issue. For me, it is important that the government here set the date of 30 June 2018, which was therefore no longer observed, the negotiations continue. Of course, Prisco, who somehow decides and is bound by these resolutions, is taking some steps without, let's say, so far as we might have other ideas, looking for other ways. Therefore, I would very much like this to be taken into account in the response to the interpelation, and perhaps those paths were also sought to pass it on to Diam, or to cooperate with them, but that is the answer I would expect as the second follow-up answer by the Minister, that this problem will simply remain. And, of course, they may be dreamers, I'm not here to flirt with this, but I firmly believe that more of these projects can emerge. And Paskov, who would be the first on the wound that would be closed, deserves it, because the coal reserves there are huge still and only the world price markets and the large OKD tunnel prevented Paskov from producing big today and could be export-interesting and successful. I will be very happy and I am very glad that this expert group is at the edge. If he's in my power, I'd be happy to take part in this meeting and help promote things, because the region needs it. And I hope that you all also feel that the Moravian-Silesian region has great problems with the restructuring of industry and that we are looking for any way and help to give this region a chance to restart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Does anyone wish to speak on this point in the debate? It's not like that. If no one is speaking, I am ending the debate and I am asking the Member if he will therefore propose a resolution on this reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u16	I would ask the honourable House to reject this reply by the Minister, namely Prisco, who in general only speaks in those figures that it wants to conclude and that there is no other way. By refusing, we will buy time to make the task for Prisco more technical and to be more interested in the possibilities for the future. It's no big deal, but we're gonna buy a little time to discuss it more with the DIAMO company and the experts, not just through numbers, but through technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u17	Mr Luzar will propose a resolution: The Chamber of Deputies rejects Minister Alena Schillerová's reply to a written interview. We will therefore vote on this resolution. I have called my colleagues to participate in the vote, if necessary. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution, i.e. rejecting the answer? Who's against it? This is vote number 60. There are 91 Members registered, for 37, against 30. This proposal was not adopted. There was therefore no agreement with the resolution. Thank you. I'm done discussing this interpellation. Another interpelation is the interpelation to Minister Alena Schillerová again. The Minister of Finance replied to Mr Vojtěch Munzar's interview on the procedure of the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic in the investigation of information from the newlywed couple at the wedding reception. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 285. Thank you. I open the debate and ask the Member to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I am very sorry that the Minister is not present today, but I understand that he is on an important foreign trip. However, allow me to give the interpellation briefly, and then I will ask you to interrupt this interpellation, because I would like to learn some more information from the Minister, and I will explain it immediately. I asked the Minister about the procedure of the Financial Administration or the local office of the financial office for the Olomouc Region in Přerov, who sent a call not to one but to 95 newlywed couples as obliged persons to inform the Financial Administration of personal information type where the reception took place, where the wedding guests were accommodated on the day of the wedding or how many guests were at the wedding reception. The call as mandatory persons under § 57 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) the tax rules also contained a follow-up lesson on the fine. That's what I asked the secretary. I asked her if she considered it a legal procedure, a proper procedure. I must say, I was surprised that the answer in this case was in agreement with the Minister that this is a legal procedure. There was just a sentence that the Financial Administration should proceed more sensitively. Just because I have a slightly different opinion about it and a different view, I'd like to discuss it with the Secretary here. In addition, she has taken this case, as you have noticed in the media, in another direction. It turns out the couples are 95 percent. Perhaps the Minister under the weight of this new information has changed his mind, but I would like to hear it from her, and I would like to hear from her what concrete measures she will take so that such a thing does not happen again. I don't want to lecture all my arguments here today, I don't want to lecture all my arguments. I would like to discuss this with the Minister, and therefore, I would like to ask you to interrupt this interpelation until the next day, when we will have written interpelations on the agenda and the Minister will be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u19	Thank you. So I will call again colleagues who went to the lobby after the vote. And we're going to vote on interrupting the interview. I'll give you guys a minute. I'm registering the check-out request. I don't know if that was a good idea. I'm gonna check you all out, and I'm gonna ask you to rejoin your I.D. cards... Everyone check that you are properly logged in. I'm gonna reengage. So, the House is very much in control of the quorum. [[Fun in the hall.]] Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this item being interrupted into the presence of the Secretary of Finance? Who's against it? It's vote number 61. It's logged in 71, for 36, against 29. The motion was accepted. Interpelation is interrupted to the presence of the Secretary of Finance. There's a request for control. [[The vote is being reviewed.]] Okay, check. I confirm that the interpellation has been suspended. And we're going to be discussing an interview with the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Minister of Transport Dan Ťok responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelation on "Will Bridges Fall?". Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 310. Thank you. I am opening the debate and the Member, who gives the floor, has taken the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u20	Dear Minister, dear colleagues. Let me remind you of the interpelation in writing that I sent to Minister Took, and then I will explain why I expressed my disagreement with the reply. My interpelation concerned the state of the bridges, and this was also essentially highlighted by the case - because the bad situation seems to concern bridges throughout Europe - the case pointed out when the motorway bridge in Genoa, Italy, collapsed. In this context, I recorded a message from the Symposium Mosty 2018 and, in response to this, an article on News.cz, which stated that there are more than 270 bridges in the Czech Republic in bad condition, and even six bridges are in a state of emergency. The article further quoted Mr Rýdl's spokesperson, who refused to provide a list of bridges at that time, and did not even answer the question of whether any of these bridges were in operation, I mean the emergency ones. Personally, I don't think that publishing a list would spread an alarm message, and it is necessary for the public to be informed of the real state of the bridges as well. Therefore, I asked the Ministry of Transport and the Minister in writing to send me a list of bridges in the administration of ŘSD, which are in bad or emergency condition. Furthermore, I asked whether some of the bridges in emergency condition were still in operation and what is the timetable for repairs of the bridges in emergency condition. I got the answer, and the answer was attached to the table, i.e. a list of all the bridges, and also with the status marking wrong, very bad and emergency. For this list, Minister, of course, thank you. However, what was missing in the answer was the answer to my following questions, whether the bridges are in emergency condition and what is the timetable for repairs of bridges in emergency condition. So, with this, I ask the Minister to complete his reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u21	Thank you. And now the Minister of Transport will perform. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Kovářová, through Mr President. I'd like to apologize first. I am alone and my colleagues have also overlooked the question of the timetable and state of the bridges in an emergency state. However, I would like to repeat here that the Road and Motorway Directorate records today bridges that are in bad shape, in very bad condition, with bad condition being category five, very bad is six, and emergency is seven. There are six bridges on first-class roads and motorways in that category, and all these bridges are currently under reconstruction. That means there's a fix going on for everyone. The repair takes place either because the bridge is out of service, or the part on which it is driven is supported and the other one is being repaired. So all of these bridges are being repaired this way. [[10.00 hours]] As you mentioned in your interview or in your speech, it is a problem that is not just about the Czech Republic, it is about the whole of Europe. Bridges with prestressed concrete structures are a major problem. We had a similar case in Karlovy Vary, where during the modernization or repair of one of the bridges in Doubi we discovered that the bridge had the construction completely I would say degraded and corroded, so it decided that the bridge had to be demolished. Based on this experience, I have instructed that all bridges that were at the time in question, especially in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, must be checked specifically, even by destructive methods, because the quality of the bridge cannot be checked by a nondestructive method. The result of this check is not yet known. When he's known, I'm sure the public will meet him. Otherwise, when we talked about it, there is also a debate on whether these bridges, which are the type that was in Janov, should not have a special subsidy programme in the European Union today. But it's not decided yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u23	Good morning, honourable Members. Let's keep going. Mrs Kovářová is reporting in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In my written interview, three questions were essentially asked. I got the first one in writing, you answered the second one, but you didn't get the third one. Sorry, actually, you answered the question of what is the situation in the repair of emergency bridges. Perhaps if you can immediately answer the question here, how will the maintenance of the bridges that are in category 1 to 4 be carried out, so that the bridges do not get to that particular category as bad as emergency, which is category 5 to 7. Of course, I am aware that today's condition is the result of neglected maintenance for decades. And maybe if it could be calculated if not today, then if I can get an answer, what is the internal debt on these bridges and how will it be financed maintenance and then repair of those bridges, which are in category 5 to 7, respectively. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u25	Thank you. Who's next for the debate? The Minister is ready to answer now. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u26	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, as regards... You are right, this situation is due to the fact that unfortunately, when the money was missing in the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure's budget, so unfortunately it was saved for repairs. So the lack of repairs in the last 20 years has caused this state of bridges. Bridges are generally designed for a hundred years and unfortunately it is evident that their lifespan has been halved somewhere and that is a great shame. We have begun to very intensively repair bridges and roads of the first classes. We've been putting around 11 billion a year for the last four years. And it is also unfortunate to see that these repairs bother motorists, but I am convinced that, above all, in light of what happened in Janov, it is very necessary. I don't want to shoot that number from the side now, because the academics who deal with bridges and bridge structures made an estimate at their conference that they came to introduce me to. I have a feeling the internal debt on the bridges is somewhere around 80 billion. It's a big number. It can't be fixed now. And I think this number includes not only the ŘSD road, it means highways and roads of the first class, but also the second, third class, which are owned by regions. It's something we'll definitely be dealing with. I've just asked the academics to suggest some steps that need to be taken. They promised me that at the next Mosty conference, there would be some sort of outcome with which the Ministry would, in turn, continue to work with the ŘSD. I'll send you the exact number.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u27	Thank you. Who's next in the debate? Mrs. Kovářová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u28	Thank you, Minister. I'd be very happy if you'd give me that number at my disposal. That's one. Secondly, if you do not now have in your head the schedule of repairs that ŘSD is planning with some perspective, because, as you have said, the funds for fixing them are really significant, and thus the next question is whether there are funds planned for next year, to what extent, for repairing bridges and maintenance, because the state that is now known is a number of years. You also know that a number of regions have been allowed to pass bridges and find that the situation is unsustainable in a number of ways. I think it should be dealt with throughout the complex, not only repairing the bridges that ŘSD is responsible for, but at the same time it should probably be addressed with the regions how they will finance the repairs and maintenance of the bridges, because it is clear that internal debt is so huge that neither the state nor the regions are able to finance the repairs of the emergency, let alone the maintenance itself. An example is the Central Bohemia Region, where I think about 250 million are actually spent on maintenance, which is absolutely not enough in such a large region. It might also be worth considering the trends in these repairs, whether the corrections are accelerating, whether the amount of funds will be higher than in recent years, given the disastrous situation. So once again, to sum up, I'd like to ask you for a schedule of repairs to those bridges that are in a state of 5 to 7, respectively. 6, and then what kind of funds will be spent and in what kind of time horizon for the maintenance of those who are not yet in a bad condition so that they do not get into that state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u29	Thank you. The Minister will complete his reply. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u30	Mr President, honourable Members, just a few comments. I'm sure we'll give you the information you requested. But I just don't want it to come out here that there's some sort of super-catastrophysic bridge situation, so it doesn't come out that way. It is certainly a matter that we must be very careful about. I just want to say that the rules still apply here. The rules apply here. The regulation says that every bridge has to go through control, there's a visual check that should be once a year, I think, then there's a bigger check that will be once every two years, based on which the bridges are always judged. If one of the owners is neglecting the control, it's a bit of a mess they're looking for. And I hope that's not happening. Our organization, here I'd like to say RSD and SŽDC, they do these checks very regularly. And I believe that even the counties do these checks regularly. A little problem is especially in terms of funds for cities and municipalities, especially small towns or small towns that own those bridges, because they just don't have the money to say to each other. So we decided on the ŘSD that those bridges that are on local roads and they go across the highway and they're owned by municipalities, we're probably going to take back to ŘSD because the municipalities just don't have a chance to take good care of it and it's a potential danger. Otherwise, for your information, the draft budget of the SFDI for 2019 is roughly the same amount, roughly the 11-12 billion that should be on the maintenance of Class 1 roads and bridges on them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u31	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will join you in the interpellation or in the intersecting of the Minister. The Minister certainly knows that I intersected him in August of this year on the issue of the ownership of bridges in connection with the construction of motorways. Probably not everyone knows, but if the construction of the bridge structures on which the roads link between the municipalities during the construction of motorways, these are extra-level crossings of motorways, the bridge structures, as the Minister said, are going into the ownership of the municipalities. And in the case of small municipalities that have 200, 300 inhabitants, those municipalities have no chance of taking care of these bridge structures. So I think -- you answered me, I won't agree with the answer. I don't think this is the last day we're meeting with the issue of bridge structures here. I'm glad you mentioned that the bridge structures, that you're thinking about going back to the state's ownership of those municipalities, because in your answer, you wrote to me that you weren't thinking about it. You mentioned a repair fund whose capacity doesn't increase until the next few years. You mentioned that there is no super-catastrophysic situation, but this super-catastrophysic situation could happen if the state somehow did not take care of the bridge structures that are now owned by the municipalities. You suggested several solutions. I think that the solution that your deputy suggested would return to state ownership is probably the most effective solution, because those municipalities really don't have the money to take care of these bridge structures and repair them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u33	Thank you, Mr Vách. And now I see Minister Took. I ask the House for peace, so that Minister Took's answer can be heard for other colleagues as well. My colleague Vácha must be tense if he gets the answer. Then Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond, through Mr President, to the comment or to the connection to Mr Vácha's interpelation. The answer today reflects what's in the law. It says in the law that ownership is transferred to the community. And why it got into that law, it's pretty simple. We need to be clear about why there are so many bridges over that highway. It is because very often, I do not say that 100%, very often the municipality, which was a party to the building permit proceedings, has simply given the condition that it will agree only if all the roads that were there before, which are needed to connect to a field, so that the roads will remain there and there will be a bridge structure. And there are two or three bridges at each mansion - look at the D10 - that could have been solved by one bridge, but there were three. So we said good, we'll put the bridges in, but you'll take care of the ownership and maintenance. And those communities promised. In the end, it turned out that they didn't have the financial strength to do it, and now during the last debates at the Ministry, I suggested that we change it in the law and that we take over the bridges, because the danger that no one cares about the bridge is actually falling from it like pieces of concrete down on the highway and they can hurt someone is quite large. So we're really going to initiate a change of law in the fact that the bridges are going to take back the ŘSD and take care of them and they're just going to be budgeted in a professional way. So that's what we're going to do. Unlike what we wrote in the middle of the year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u35	Thank you. Now Mrs Kovářová, then Mr František Vácha again. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u36	Thank you for the floor. Minister, you said that the ŘSD carries out regular checks on its bridges and that it is therefore a question of whether other owners - we probably meant regions - are carrying out checks. I must say that I know the situation in Central Bohemia well, and this is where Councilman Petrtýl sits, after all. And that's where the checks are carried out. So control is one thing, and the other thing is, if the Central Bohemia Region did such a check two years ago and found out what state the bridges are in, and we saw pictures of the state of the bridges, and the condition isn't really good. And the question is, does the county have the funds? Both maintenance and actually the real one. So that's what I think needs to be dealt with because...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u37	I understand. I'm gonna ask everyone once more to calm down so that Mrs. Kovářová... Not in vain, of course, she refused to answer her written interpelation, and therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure, and this is the law, discussed here. So please, take it easy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u38	Because in general it can be said that the state of bridges in the regions is very bad. And that the funds are so huge that, in my opinion, it is necessary to address this situation immediately and in some way, of course, after consulting the Regional Association, to address the transfer of funds to bridge repairs. In short, and well, the county doesn't have the funds. This critical situation exists, and if there is a critical situation, there is a need for a crisis solution. And then you were talking here, or we were talking about prevention. And I think prevention is important. It's like a human being. If you're taking preventive examinations, there's always a disaster that can be avoided. Which I think is also important in this case that the funds go precisely to the maintenance of those bridges that are in category 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u39	Thank you. Mr Petrtýl's point of order, then Mr Vácha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Mrs Kovářová, for calling me to this when she mentioned the Central Bohemian Region and the state of its bridges. When I got into office, the first point I said to myself is that the bridges are going to be fixed, because I saw the bridges not only from the top, but mainly from the bottom, and sometimes the looks were really rusty. Just for your information, for example, the Central Bohemian Region has 1,844 bridges with a total length of 26 kilometers. And we currently have about 10 of these bridges in an emergency state, and we're working on it and we're trying to fix these bridges. Regular checks are being made, and I think that's the same thing about ŘSD. Regular annual checks are carried out, there are checks after a longer cycle and, of course, checks are made when an event occurs suddenly. Like a flood or crash or something. In the Central Bohemia Region, we had the bridge passage processed, so we know exactly what condition the bridge is in. And fixing the bridges only in our region would be about ten billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now duly registered colleague František Vácha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u42	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for changing the position of the Ministry of Transport. I would like to ask you what is your time frame for this legislative process, where the state could actually take over those bridges, at least those really small municipalities that can't take care of it, into ownership, and if you have any idea how much it will burden the state budget. Because they can reach into the SFDI now, but I suppose when the state takes over the bridge structures, the SFDI budget won't decrease. So this information, if you'd like to tell me. Although I have no longer agreed to your response to my written interpelation and disagreement is somewhere in the administrative process, I am considering pulling him down and waiting for, like, six months or some reasonable time, and then I would ask you again what condition the legislative process is in. So if you had the time horizon and the funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u43	Thank you. The Minister wants to answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u44	Thank you. I'm not exactly gonna tell you, but I'm gonna give you the information. We have a few of our laws open today, so it's quite possible that we could get it there quite quickly through some amendment, so we can agree on what we can do about it. We need to find the money to fix these bridges in SFDI now, and we will, because we could trade it for the program I was talking about. And I'll give you this information. And if I can still respond to Mrs Kovářová through Mr President. I didn't say the county doesn't care about their bridges and they don't control them. I raised rather doubt, but it was not even a bad thing, in the way that if a small village, where there is a new council, which may not even know the commitment, so whether they are aware of their responsibility to the bridge owner and what is to be controlled and how often and to correct. I've got some doubts about that somewhere, I'll admit it. But it's not a bad thing, it's more of a system question that needs to be corrected. About the results of the checks. When the check comes up with a problem, of course, the bridge owner has to deal with it immediately. Something can be dealt with quickly, something can not. And if there's a big problem, there's obviously an obligation to close the bridge. And that's what happens sometimes these days. And as for the money. I don't think it's a matter for the Department of Transport to take on the fact that he's gonna fix it for all of us. Just the bridge owner has to look for money in his budgets. If I remember correctly, regions, cities, municipalities are in surplus budgets everywhere today, maybe they could find some money for it. And I don't think that's the solution -- we have a problem here, state, throw it in. Because if we touch the past with twos, threes, as they say very often, no money was transferred to the county, she's not entirely true. Because before the transfer, the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure had 20 percent of its fuel tax revenue, today it has 9.1 and the 10,9% went to RUD for the regions, and the money was clearly there. And when we've been going out in the last ten years, how many twos and threes were invested in or invested in what funds were given to repair twos and threes, it's an average of about 6.7 billion. For all the regions. If we take the 10.9 percent, that's about 10 billion. at today's prices. So, of course, there's a deficit out there somewhere. I don't want to find out who's the culprit right now, but I'm sure it shouldn't be like saying, "come on, come on! But we should have fun looking for a way together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u45	Thank you. Mrs Kovářová wants to get off. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u46	Thank you for your clarification, Minister. You mentioned that the regions should take care of their bridges, which is what they're trying to do. You mentioned that the regions have surplus management. I have to say - I'm sorry about the expression, but I'm allergic to it when there's a lot going on here that the municipalities are in surplus, the regions are in surplus, only the state is in deficit. The surpluses are obvious. The surplus is used to make large investments both on the edge and on the municipalities. They must at least have co-financing. As far as the Central Bohemia Region is concerned, and I think that there are a number of regions, so the funds available to those regions are not so much, because if you look at the budget of each region, it looks great, but we have to say that half of the funds are the money that comes from the state to education, and the region immediately sends them to this resort. The county has a large cost of transport service. These are huge sums that are put into these funds. Social services. And it's like there's nothing left to do with the bridges. I don't want to argue about it here, I'm just stating it, because even Councilman Petrtýl could definitely talk about it his own way. You also mentioned that the state is financially involved in the repair of the roads of the second and third classes, which is also okay. So, of course, the regions must thank for this, because the situation is also intolerable, in some cases very bad, and these funds are definitely helping the regions. If you look at what was said here. In the Central Bohemia Region, the internal debt is basically 10 billion on those bridges. Crowns. And that really is a financial amount that can't be handled in two or three years, which would have earned this time horizon. In short, and well, I meant whether it wouldn't be possible to think about it, and you finally mentioned it in your reply that it would be good to work together on those repairs precisely to avoid the fact that the bridges would then be in a state of emergency or very bad, which is actually a step ahead of that state of emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u47	Thank you. Nobody's going to the debate, I'm asking for a proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u48	If the Minister promises me that he will send me that time schedule of repairs relating to the wrong and very bad bridges, and also the funds, it may not be detailed, but in some kind of ambush, how the timetable will run and how the maintenance of the bridges is planned, which are in good condition, I think it will be sufficient for me, if I could ask for some time, until you are able to do this... Would 14 days be enough for you, Mr. Secretary? [[The minister's asking for three weeks.]] Three weeks, excellent. So if you promise me that within three weeks I will receive what I have mentioned here, I will not question the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u49	Okay. So the motion for a vote to disagree with the Minister's reply did not fall, the Minister has promised to give an answer according to the debate, and I can therefore end this reply to Mrs Věra Kovářová's written interpelation. We will continue with the last written intervention that is included in today's meeting, which is the interpellation of Mr Jakub Michálek to Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on the completion of the Prague Circuit. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 311. My colleague Michálek is reporting, so I am opening up a debate on this matter. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u50	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased with the answer I received from the Minister. I got two pages, and as you got it in the backgrounds, detailed deadlines, a timetable for the period in which it is expected to be put into operation, construction of the Prague Circuit. We all understand that the Prague Circuit is a major construction not only for hl. m. Prague, but for the whole Czech Republic, because it is the centre of the motorway network of the Czech Republic. And it is important for us and for citizens hl. m. Prague, because of course we do not want it through the hl. m. Prague was driven by the most significant moves, trucks and huge traffic, which burdened the network of roads hl. m. Prague. In this respect, I wanted to offer the Minister our full cooperation, both our representatives at the City Council and Members here. What can we do to speed things up to the maximum, so that there are no delays in the project? Because it's a big project that goes through many electoral periods. We've been talking about him for decades, and it's always ended up being a political representation, and somehow he's gonna make it happen, and it's getting longer and longer. So I'm wondering if there's any possibility of speeding up, if the working groups that were set up that you're writing about in that response to my interpelration work well, if there are delays. I'll be happy for any answer and opportunity to finally move on. So, if necessary, that we prepare the project for our successors in the form that they will be able to complete it if it does not happen during this parliamentary term, which I don't think will be possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u51	I thank Mr Michálek. Mr. Transport Minister Dan Ťok is ready to specify at least the construction of 511 and others. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u52	That's right. Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, I would like to say perhaps a little optimistic words especially on 511. I think the preparations for this House could be prepared, and we need to take a few steps. If there's an offer to cooperate, I'm very happy to take it. I would just like to say that for the 511 and for the others, there is a specific working group working at the City Council today, or with the City Council, and with the Roads and Motorways Directorate. We would very much like to continue with the new leadership of the town hall, and here I think it would be a good thing, or that we would very much welcome it if the words that the Mayor promised us were fulfilled, that, following the decision we have already asked for, this is a matter in which representation could certainly be of some assistance to us, that none of these deadlines would be extended, that they would be taking place as they should, so there is some possibility of help in the purchase of land, because after obtaining the territorial decision, we can start buying out the land. And then it's also a question, I'd say, debate with citizens, explaining in those individual parts. I'm sure that's a good place to go. Second, how the Chamber of Deputies can help. We have prepared and are now sending to inter-ministerial commentary proceedings this time a government amendment to Act 416, in which we will have further steps that could simplify and speed up the preparation of these large infrastructure structures. So I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies in advance for support and also for this law, just as we did in the previous 416 or as in the Taxicab Act, we would call together an expert group of Members and invite you to what things we want to put there so that we can start discussing them perhaps in advance and exchange our views on them and we need to adjust them accordingly. So I very much welcome it, and I just want to say that the timetable, and I can still give you a better processing here, is optimistic in the sense that it doesn't count on some very long delaying appeal process. And then we have to prepare for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u53	I thank Minister Dan Took and ask who is reporting for the open debate. A colleague of Michálek's reporting. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u54	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, thank you very much for the timetable. I think we can follow up on this cooperation, and I will do my utmost within my remit to have colleagues working with us at the Prague City Council. Of course there is a need - these negotiations are very complex, which are conducted there, especially with regard to the interests of municipalities, the environment, various studies are planned there, so there is a need to communicate between the Ministry, the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, hl. m. Prague, the mayor of the affected municipalities, so that we can find an optimal and quick solution to this problem. So I hope that we can agree on this and we can please citizens not only Prague, but the whole Czech Republic that the next time they go through Prague, they will have transportation a little faster. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u55	Thank you. If no one signs up for debate, I can end the debate. There was no motion for a resolution, and since it was the last written interview with which the Member opposed it, and the motion for a resolution did not fall, I can also conclude the point of reply to the written interpelation, i.e. paragraph 179. As we have another item on the agenda fixed at 11 o'clock, I am interrupting negotiations by 11 o'clock with the agreement that we will continue at 11 o'clock according to the approved agenda. But, of course, under the Rules of Procedure Act at 11 o'clock, proposals may still be made to change the agenda. But I suppose there will be no great interest in change given that the fixed point is expected for a long time. Thank you. I'm interrupting the meeting until 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-001-179.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We should now consider the firmly listed point 177 of the approved programme, which is the Position of the Czech Government and the Ministry of Industry and Trade for forced sale of ArcelorMittal, a. s., Ostrava. Then we would discuss points from the news block, suggestions and more. At the same time, I'll introduce you to an apology that hasn't been loaded yet. Mr Jan Řehounek apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Before we proceed to discuss a fixed point, I am of course asking if anyone is interested in making a proposal to amend the approved agenda of the 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I don't see anybody like that, so we're gonna keep going the way we've set ourselves, so I'm opening up a point.
