ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u1	78. Members Jana Mračková Vildumetzová's proposal, Ivo Vondrák, Helena Válková, Milan Pour, Petr Sadovskýý and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 128/2000 Coll., on Municipalities (General Establishment), as amended, Act No. 129/2000 Sb., on regions (regional establishment), as amended, and Act No. 131/2000 Sb., on the capital city of Prague, as amended /house print 273/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House press number 273/1. Please refer to Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová as the appellant. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, as a petitioner and representative of a group of Members, I would like to introduce to you the amendment to the Act on Municipalities, the Regions, the capital of Prague, which concerns the cumulation of remuneration. The proposal consists in providing a remuneration of 0.4 times the amount of the remuneration which would otherwise belong to a vacant member of the council to the vacant members of the municipality, the county or the capital of Prague, who are also Members, Senators or members of the government. We proposed that this amendment be effective on the first day of the third calendar month following its publication. The relationship between the remuneration of the members of the representatives of the local authorities in the event of the constituencies of this function with the most outstanding political functions, the duties of a Member, a senator and a member of the government, is not yet regulated. The bill submitted in this parliamentary term is the second attempt to regulate the amount of public service remuneration in the accumulation of functions -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u3	Madame, I'm going to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u4	- and thus follows, to a certain extent, the parliamentary proposal for amendment of Act No. 159/2006 Coll., on the conflict of interest tabled here by Mr. Jakub Michálek. Unfortunately, this proposal has been returned to recast, and the Government has taken a disagreeable position on it. In itself, the proposed measure has the potential to save funds in the budgets of local authorities designated for remuneration by vacant members of the Boards of Directors and to prevent excessive accumulation of functions and remuneration when it occurs primarily in order to increase the remuneration received. [[On?]] The proposal focuses on the issue of the continuance of remuneration for the performance of state-of-the-art functions with functions in territorially self-governing units. However, there is no question of the continuance of the function of a vacant member of the regional council and similar function in the municipal council. It is not proposed to introduce the incompatibility of the functions concerned, since the transfer of experience from the local or regional sphere to the activities of the legislatures or governments or, on the contrary, through persons operating in both spheres may be beneficial and therefore there is no reason to prevent it. Nor is it proposed to withdraw one of the rewards that are at hand, which makes the proposed legislation more gentle than some similar regulations already in force in the Czech Republic. The proposed amendment does not concern unreleased members of the council, because the decision whether these officials will be rewarded at all is under the authority of the competent council, with the exception of the remuneration of unreleased mayors and governors. In the draft law there is also amendment point 2, the amendment does not concern the concurrence of remuneration, but is of a legislative technical nature and the reason for its inclusion is the attempt to remove the error in the reference so that the legislation is applicable without difficulty. As I have already said, a three-month period is proposed, which should give the addressees time to get to know it and, above all, allow the local authorities to implement appropriate measures in the administration of remuneration. The new legislation should apply immediately after its entry into force to all relevant cases, in the course of remuneration for the performance of the functions in question, and therefore no transitional provision is necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by presenting some of the views of the political scientist from the Faculty of Social Sciences of Charles Lukáš Hájek University, who is engaged in the accumulation of mandates. It turns out that the cumulation of mandates is not only negative for the political system, but also has some positive consequences. There is a link between political power, whether we are talking about municipal, regional or national politics. Politicians working in Parliament or government are often accused of being cut off from reality and everyday life. However, if someone accumulates, for example, the mandate of a Member and mayor, it can be assumed that knowledge of the problems in his town will be reflected in the adoption of better laws. Research from abroad, for example, shows that politicians who accumulate more mandates in Parliament are asking more questions because their constituents from small villages and cities are pushing them to be active at national level. This needs to be one of the positive consequences. [[11.00 hours]] Another must be the professionalisation of politics. Politicians who accumulate mandates have a much more secure position, so they need not fear that they will fail in the Houses of Elections and that their political career would end. He's standing on more legs. This means that their entire political portfolio is much more varied and become larger professionals. My research was based on the fact that politicians working in the municipal council had greater participation in committee meetings and greater participation in the vote. That's consistent with the fact that they want to represent their constituents there. I would also like to comment on the fact that I would like to emphasise at this point that this proposal is very simple and easy to apply. At the same time, I would like to stress that the aim of this proposal is also to appreciate working policies, because today, if they want to do something for their region or community, they cannot renounce pay. By law, he must accept it and tax it. A large part of these people then normally divides the second salary thus obtained into charitable purposes. However, their opposition does not see or deliberately overlook this and feeds on pointless criticism, I dare say, human envy. So that's the end of envy, the end of two or three salaries. If anyone wants to work from morning to night, let them do it without remorse, but don't take two full rewards. Jakub Michálek will certainly speak as the promoter of the conflict of interest law that this proposal does not include the remuneration of politicians on supervisory boards. There I would like to say that if a meaningful proposal is put forward that will be applicable, no one is, of course, resisting it. On the other hand, it is necessary to note that all municipalities and cities are not 100% owners, and the remuneration in the supervisory boards is very different. If we went to 0.4 times that, then where do we know that those representatives who are majority owners aren't going to raise the rewards yet? Unfortunately, in some supervisory board you receive a reward of a thousand crowns, somewhere much higher. And I would also like to make one important argument, and that is that you can give up the remuneration on the Supervisory Board, while not the remuneration of a relaxed representative. At this point, I would like to thank you for your attention and, of course, I will closely monitor the debate and respond if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u5	I thank the lady who spoke for the plaintiff. We are now in such a situation that the rapporteur for the first reading was designated by Mr Baxa. There is a proposal to amend the rapporteur. Mr Ivan Bartoš is obviously willing to become rapporteur because he is already sitting at the rapporteur's table, but I must first have this change voted so that you can be rapporteur. We will now vote on what I have said, which means a change in the rapporteur. The originally designated rapporteur for first reading shall be replaced by a Member of Ivan Bartoš. I'm picking up an application for check-out. I've checked you out, please, with your I.D. cards again. I am launching a vote to appoint a new rapporteur for Ivan Bartoš. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 195. Registered 131 Members, for 127, against no one. The new rapporteur for first reading is Ivan Bartoš. I ask the rapporteur to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u6	Good morning, Mr President, colleagues. Since we were the creators of the original bill, which has been returned to us for recasting, I am therefore very pleased and have also agreed with Mr Baxa that I can report this new proposal. I will forgive myself for some rhetorical exercise about what I believe should be or should not be there, but this law and the draft of this law are an important step against wage accumulation. It kind of has something to do with the accumulation of functions, because in a number of cases, I'm not sure whether the double or sometimes triple reward isn't the driving motor, why some politicians in a number of those functions are and needy. So I welcome this proposal from a group of Members, under which pirates are once again signed, over there Jakub Michálek, the author of the original proposal, where Members from various parties were also signed. I hope that this proposal will have the support that we may even be able to extend this proposal by means of some amendments, because there has indeed been a slight narrowing to the highest-ranking ones, namely government officials, Members and Senators. And actually, the level of this rule, where we are talking about, for example, regional and government representatives, or in other mayors' roles, fell out the same way as the case of supervisory councils where we heard that it wasn't really a practice for anyone to voluntarily give up these rewards, even the information on the air that these news outlets had to occupy themselves with those elected representatives, because if they weren't released, they wouldn't want to vote, which I think is a practice that we don't want to support here. I would once again thank the petitioners for this bill. I would recommend him for second reading and, at the same time, I suggest that the Guarantee Committee be the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, where this bill belongs in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. Mr Benda is reporting for the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u8	Dear Vice-President, Madam Speaker, Dear Members of the Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am sorry that no one else is reporting. I don't care about this bill. I've never been in any other community-level position that I'd accumulate with the position here. But what I find slightly incredible, and he said it to some extent, the rapporteur in his sentence - this is a bill that is based purely on envy. Purely envious. We're going to convince everyone that it's okay to accumulate functions in public power. I think so, too, even think that if these people are elected there, and they are elected there, all executive functions are already in conflict of interest by virtue of the conflict of interest law. Keep government members out of this. A member of the Government may not be a vacant representative. If these are the positions that people are elected to, and someone elects a senator at the same time, the mayor of their city, these people choose him like this, the governor at the same time, then we're just going to say because some envious groups here say "yeah, they have too much money from public funds," so are we going to say that only part of the reward is due for this next activity? I just don't understand. I don't understand how we feel about how these people vote, and why we think that we and some interest groups are pushing this, so we're the only sinners in the world. I have a huge problem with this bill proposal. In my opinion, when someone is carrying out an activity, especially an activity to which he is elected, he is to take a salary for it, he is not to be reduced or reduced. And if we're going to compromise like this, we're going to say 0.4, so tell me if you think it's right that any person can give up part of their public salary. So let's do this general principle that I can give up part of my pay that I get out of law, so maybe I have to tax it, or if I give up, I don't have to tax it. Do this as a general principle, and let all the saints and righteous who keep running around wanting to limit money to someone else, so let them limit themselves. But I don't like it any other way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u9	Thank you. The reaction follows by factual remarks. Mr Luzar, Mr Beitl, followed by Mr Bartoš, will make the first point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am interested in the debate that has taken place here both during the presentation of the bill, and here I would ask the petitioner and the rapporteur for the statistics or the information that has been quoted here that some political scientist has said that he has the figures, he has the analyses. I would like to know in what analyses which numbers he used, because what was said here on the microphone, I consider the exact opposite of what I have from my own personal experience of participating colleagues in various events and the like. So I'm really interested in what data the guy who processed the statistics was drawing. The second thing that was said here. A citizen doesn't choose his own particular policy. Unfortunately, thank God, I don't know, the direct election of politicians hasn't started here yet, and it hasn't. A citizen chooses a political party. The political party shall decide which members it shall place in this position. And often, unfortunately, it happens that the citizen is unable to identify with his mayor, but he was elected to the political party candidate he was rooting for. He gave her a voice. But he expects the mayor, the mayor, to do his job 100%. And the duplication of functions here in this is, in my opinion, a problem and I also feel that it is a time problem. I am a regular representative of the village, unfortunately a village in Ostrava, so it is not here in Prague when someone takes a two-hour piss from the meeting. No one can tell here, they vote there, they come back. But maybe it's a problem for Ostrava or Opava. The traffic distance is pretty big for us to handle participation, and of course the function is partially suffering from it. And if anyone tells me they're not, they're wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u11	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Beitl, then President Bartoš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can start by declaring a conflict of interest, because I also work in two positions at the moment, but only until 15 November, so I am much easier to talk about. There's talk of pay. My colleague Benda was right about human envy. I'd like to talk about the other side of the coin, too, and that's responsibility. If you want to cut someone's salary to four tenths, I'm assuming there's gonna be some kind of legislation that also shortens the responsibility that this person carries to four tenths. And all of us sitting in representative benches, city councils and municipalities, voting and signing documents, so, of course, we must perceive this responsibility very strongly. And even more strongly we can see that responsibility in the administrative and supervisory councils, where bad decisions are guaranteed by the entire property. I would ask that the problem be resolved comprehensively, and that when money is being taken away, so that pirates can come up with some magical formula for how those people's responsibility will be reduced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u13	Thank you. President Bartoš, Mr Juránek after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u14	I'll only react briefly here. I'm not in any conflict of interest. I am a Member and I am the Chairman of the Pirate Party, which is not a paid post. I hope I'm doing it right. I would just like to say one thing about the speaker through Mr President. The level of responsibility at work is not measured by the rate of remuneration. That's not true. It's just a person makes responsible decisions. As such, the politician is not liable for his assets on the Supervisory Board. So it would be worth it, if it goes somewhere on foreign acquisitions, like Bulgaria, billions, that whoever scratched it pays out of their billions, that's why they have to take million-dollar, ten-million-dollar rewards, I don't think so. Responsibility is a property and an attitude, not a question of money. And the other thing. I would have responded to Mr Benda through Mr President. It's the other way around. Here we are Members of the Chamber of Deputies. So we are representatives of all citizens, and we are paid with money that is, in some way, nationwide. If I look at a committee meeting or a business meeting or even here in the House and I don't see my colleague there, and because he's in the process of carrying out some of his community stuff, whether it's an event or a meeting or opening up some new sports area, then it bothers me. And that is where citizens can rightly feel deprived of what the politician in the Chamber of Deputies is supposed to do, because it is a matter of nationwide, not municipal or regional elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u15	Thank you. I will now introduce you to the order in which Members of Parliament are signed up, how we will proceed. It will be followed by factual remarks. Mr Juránek, Mr Plzák, Mrs Procházková, Mr Zahradník. Then, with priority rights, the chairmen Kalousek, Stanjura, Michálek are signed up and then Mr Jelínek is entered into the general debate. Mr Juránek, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u16	I will only allow myself to react briefly through the President to my colleague Luzar. I would like to say that he mentioned here that people are appointed to the top positions on the basis of not the majority system, and I want to deny it just by choosing 81 senators, they are all elected unambiguously. And when we look at the statistics relating to mayors, in those more than 6,000 municipalities, they are usually the ones who have won the highest number of votes. That is, I would just like to say that his argument was odd and that the people who are chosen in office are chosen on the basis that they have the support of the voters who vote for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u17	Thank you. Mr Plzák, after him Mrs Procházková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u18	Thank you for the floor. I don't know if I'm in any conflict, but I confess, at a time when the House isn't sitting, when committees aren't sitting, I'm on Saturdays, Sundays, and sometimes I help my colleagues in the hospital with services. I hope I'm doing the job responsibly, because otherwise the employer wouldn't have let me do the job. And now I'm asking. Are the pirates gonna want to cut my salary or not?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u19	Thank you. Mrs Procházková, with a point of fact. After that, Mr. Zahradník. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u20	Thank you for the floor. I fully agree with my previous speaker. And to the second speaker, through the President to Mr Bartoš. Legally, there's a reward for the job. Its amount may be discussed, but neither does chicken for free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u21	Thank you. Mr Zahradník, Mr Bauer after him. Real notes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u22	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been a member of the Ceske Budejovice Council since 1990, so I think I have the right to comment on this. Firstly, I would like to respond to my colleague Luzar, who mentioned the timetable for the Member's work versus his mandate in the deputies by example from Prague. It is possible, and so it may work in Budějovice, to align the terms of the meeting of the municipal council with the dates when the MP or senator is free, which are usually Mondays, which is a tradition for us, possibly for weeks. There is therefore no major conflict, participation in the House's meetings and the council meeting. In addition to what the rapporteur said. He thought... Apparently, my colleague Beitl thought, at least I think, something else. She is the responsibility that sometimes is very often dealt with in criminal proceedings. Recently, there has been frequent criminalisation of municipal, municipal representatives for how they voted according to their best knowledge and conscience and equipped with the appropriate amount of information at the council. We've been there. I have given this explanation to the Police of the Czech Republic in České Budějovice and I must say that is what I mean. Here's the responsibility 100% and not forty percent. There's nothing we can do about it. And the personal responsibility is sometimes in conflict with how our actions are perceived by those who have actually provoked the criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u23	Thank you. Mr Bauer, after him, President Stanjura. Real notes continue. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u24	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, have been celebrating membership of the city council for 20 years this year. I have dealt with this issue in the past, and I must say that there are countries that are also close in Europe, where this function is even possible, such as France, where every major mayor of a city is also a member of the legislature. There is a need for a situation in neighbouring Germany where cumulation of functions is not permitted at all, it is not possible for the mayor of the city to perform at the same time as a member of the Bundestag. I listened carefully to the opening speech of the speaker, and I wanted to ask you about the logic. In the opening speech, it was said: Very often those who are part of local administrative units both at the level of municipalities and regions grow professionally, very often log into discussion, the cumulation of office benefits them because they transmit information from the municipality, from the region, to the premises of the Chamber of Deputies, but also vice versa, and for that reason, ladies and gentlemen, we come up with our proposal to withdraw 60 percent of their salary. - Tell me the logic. I didn't find the logic. If you come up with a proposal a la German model that cumulation of the mayor's or mayor's or town's or community's functions from some level is not a vacation, and you come up with this proposal, I would still understand that. I probably wouldn't agree with that, but I would understand. But to say that it's for the benefit of both sides, and that's why I'm coming up with the fact that I'm gonna take the money away from them, it's just an unacceptable argument for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u25	Thank you. President Stanjura, followed by President Bartoš, factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u26	My colleague and I didn't make a deal, so he took away the conflict of interest passage, where it can be defined and confused by the law. It's not like I support it, it's a clean road. But the rapporteur made it very clear in his word, that is the law on cumulation, on the prohibition of wage accumulation. In my opinion, it is enough not to vote for such a law. Let's not pretend we're smarter than voters. Voters know very well who they're voting for. And if it's a standard, established, traditional political party, they often know who's the candidate for mayor. He'll succeed, or he won't succeed, that's the second thing. He is the leader of the candidate who says: In addition to running, I would like to lead my community, my city. It's very clear. The voters decide somehow and suddenly someone smarter comes along, in this case the Chamber of Deputies, who says, "They made the wrong decision, they don't have time for it, they take too much money." - Why are we doing this for them? The voters have that information. We have now acquired ten senator seats in this election, and nine of them are experienced municipal politicians. Are you telling me they won't be able to perform the senator's duties well? I believe it will be exactly the opposite. But us or you, we don't, you say: that's fine, it enriches everything, but we take the money away from them. So let's talk about the accumulation of functions, we don't have the courage. We don't have the courage, at least the petitioners didn't design anything like that, but we're talking about a no-paying ban. And my colleagues are right, too. They're paid from public health insurance. Are we gonna forbid them, or are we gonna cut them short? What is the difference between shared taxes and public health insurance? Is that taxpayers' money? Well, they are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u27	Thank you. You've kept your time. President Bartoš, after him, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u28	I would like to respond to some of the comparisons that have been made here. If you work in the private sector, it's your employer's business to pay you for. Some managers are paid not even to go to the company if they are also shareholders in the company and are not very efficient. If you're employed somewhere, of course, and we've never questioned this for our work, for the quality of the job, even for the time you spend there, you're supposed to get paid. I think the thing is, you wake up in the morning, the city works, the garbage goes away, the light shines, maybe the city could shine. We addressed this in the original proposal. This also requires cumulation within the supervisory board. We've had so many times, and it's not just the case of Mrs. Kleslová, where we asked what the politician was doing there on that council, and they can't answer us for what he was taking the money for, what work he did. So if a doctor outside the Chamber of Deputies conducts his practice outside the clubs and is therefore paid from health insurance and it is in this organization, he is paid for the work he has done. Unfortunately, you can also be paid for a job you didn't do because you were supposed to sit in the House, but at the same time you opened a new cycle path somewhere in South Bohemia. And that's the problem. So let us write in the justification for absence at the meeting the real reasons for the absence of a Member to obtain the statistics for which Mr Luzar here called through the President, because then it would become apparent whether the problem is just the accumulation of salaries, or indeed the cumulation of functions that we can experience here in the House today and daily.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u29	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, after which Mr Ferjenčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I would like to take the liberty of responding to some of the previous speakers. First of all, my colleagues Věrka Procházková and Mr Plzák. In the introduction, I would like to say that I, Mrs Helena Válková, Mr Ivo Vondrák, Milan Pour, Petr Sadovský, Adam Kalous, Antonín Staněk, Jakub Michálek and others, would like to draw your attention to who is the promoter of the law. At the same time, I would like now for Mr Benda, through Mr President, as you have spoken here about the cumulation in terms of the mayor, Member and member of the government, Mr Staněk, who also signed this bill, is, after all, the case that was in the accumulation of functions, was the mayor of the city of Olomouc, he was a Member and he was a Minister of Culture. Now, of course, he's not the mayor anymore, but he was for that time. Of course, we're not talking about compatibility and incompatibility here. We're talking about accumulation of rewards here. As has been said here, indeed, the largest number in terms of the accumulation of remuneration is not so much for Members, but more for Senators. The statistics I conducted were 28 senators before the Senate elections, and after this year's Senate elections of 27 rewarded senators, half of the successful local politicians were local politicians. With regard to the response, I don't know, I guess I'm gonna have to sign up again, Mr Bauer, we're not talking here through the President about unreleased members of the council. We're talking about loose council members in terms of accumulation of rewards. Then I'll sign up with another de facto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u31	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Stanjura after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u32	Thank you for the floor. I'm just very serious. We can at least look at how the real situation works today. I'm on the web kuloary.cz set out the statistics on Members' participation in the vote. Of the 20 Members who at least go to work for this term, at least seven are mayors or regional representatives. The rest are in the vast majority of ministers or former ministers. Then there are some exceptions for medical reasons. But the vast majority of those people who go to the House to vote significantly below average are either municipal politicians or ministers, so the cumulation is clearly a problem. That is why we support both this law and also support the introduction of a slippery mandate so that ministers are not Members at the same time. The numbers are simply absolutely clear - Antonín Staněk, Stanislav Blaha, Jan Birke, Petr Dolínek, Ivan Adamec, Tomáš Hanzel. These are people who come here statistically far less, far less voting. It's just that they have municipal and regional functions. That's just a fact. I don't know why anyone's questioning that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u33	Thank you. With a point of fact, President Stanjura. Please, ladies and gentlemen, calm down, so we can discuss this point!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u34	I consider this an unfair attack and envy to successful politicians. My colleague Stanislav Blaha was in surgery and long-term rehabilitation. Well, at least find out the facts before you attack a colleague for medical reasons. Be so kind, my colleague, through the Vice-President! [[Strong applause especially for the left half of the hall.]] Shoulder surgery and subsequent rehabilitation certainly have nothing to do with accumulation of function. That's for sure. Moreover, Mr Blaha ran a month ago - and what do you think happened? He won! Although all opposition opponents, including pirates, pointed that out. And yet the municipal election won. So don't be smarter than the voters in Uherské Hradiště! They know very well who they've chosen and who they've chosen. [[Strong applause especially for the left half of the hall.]] But the second case. Speaking of hypocrisy, can't a teacher teach when he's an MP? Can't he have a job? That's also paid from public sources. It was nice that President Bartoš taught me that in the private sector, everyone decides what they want. I agree with that, I didn't talk about the private sector at all. And I wasn't talking about the MPs working in the private sector. And I agree it's the employer's business. But the problem with those supervisory councils you talked about, what those politicians are doing there - the question is completely different. What's that supervisory board member doing? No matter whether he's a politician or a politician nominated. This is the right question for every owner who has a supervisory board and should ask each owner, whether private or public. And not if he's a politician. There may be a politician who does it right, there may be a politician who does nothing there, but there may be someone who isn't a politician, and there's nothing there! But that's not what pirates do anymore, because the popular ones are pointing to politicians. So the real question is, are these people doing a job there? And that's what the owner is for! In this case, the council. And don't worry about Prague all the time! In many cities, these supervisory boards are worth two, three thousand a month. So don't worry about Prague with millions of prizes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u35	Prime Minister, time's up. With Mr Plzák's point of fact, I am the one who applied for it, so I will ask one of the Vice-Presidents to replace me at the time of my factual remark. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u36	Thank you. First to my dear colleague. I like you through the President, but it does not mean that I have to agree 100% with everything. And here I don't know if I'm 100% up for it. But I applied to that factual remark because of a fellow pirate who said that if nothing's going on in town, the mayor has nothing to do, etc. I wanted to tell him what it was like in my service. I get paid for every service anyway, and there's no business plan in health care. And it just happens to me that I operate till two o'clock in the night, but it happens to me that sometimes I have peace. [[Knocking on the counter]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the factual remark of the Vice-President of the House of Petr Fiala. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I respond to President Bartoš's speech, Mr Ferjenčík and some others, and I want them - and I therefore have great concern - to draw attention to one thing through the President: colleagues, of course, you have the opportunity to say what you want, and I fully respect that. But I am obliged to, I feel the duty in terms of my conscience to warn you that you are now touching the fundamental principles of representative democracy here. You have nothing to judge the work of other colleagues! We're not supposed to settle for someone more coming to the Polanc House and who's less, someone working more in the council and someone less. Please, that's not our job. There's only one group of people who can judge that, and they're voters. Don't personalize that right, which only voters have. Otherwise, we are dangerously violating the principles of parliamentary democracy, and I will not accept that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u39	I thank Vice-President Petr Fial. Now, with another factual remark, Mr Milan Feranec. Mrs. Mračková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u40	Hello, thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to try and calm the debate down a little bit, she's been so emotional right now. Yes, the law isn't about banning the accumulation of functions, that's what voters decide. We really don't have any say in this. On the other hand, it is true that the relaxed councilman, I will now take Olomouc, for example, where I live, and the MP, is a full-time job. It really is. But, of course, if someone is doing both jobs and prosecuting, all honor. But the law is to dissuade suspicion that these people are doing it for money. They're gonna keep doing it, from the heart, because that's what they want to do. Well, at least we can dissuade the suspicion. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u41	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on my previous speaker, and I would also like to stress that this is not about the accumulation of functions, but about the accumulation of remuneration. If this bill is approved, 60 per cent of the remuneration of the vacant representative will remain in the budget of cities, municipalities and regions. And these funds will, of course, be used further. Today, when someone accumulates these functions, they give money for, for example, charity purposes, but I think it's really right that funds remain in the budgets of cities, municipalities and regions. And I think it's fair too. And let me give you one particular example. For example, when Klára Dostálová is in the position of Minister and Member, she only receives a reward for the ministry position. For the performance of the duties of the Member, he shall receive only funds for the Office, the Assistant, etc. But he doesn't get anything for serving as a Member. I believe that this bill is really fair and that it is right, and I think that it will finally resolve that, of course, it will be up to the person to decide whether or not to accumulate functions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u43	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Balaštíková, after which Mr Bauer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u44	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would take the liberty of responding to my previous speaker, Mr. Ferjenčík. Mr colleague, you are really talking through the President about youth and inexperience. Because I, if I am not sitting here, can tell you that I am dealing with some matters that are 95 percent related to my work as a Member. And it's about how much work you do here, how important these tasks are, and how much they need to negotiate outside the House. And I can't force some of the other colleagues to meet with me tonight in principle, when the House doesn't sit down. So let me remind you, do me a favor and don't criticize when you have no idea about the job at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u45	Thank you. Mr Bauer, after him Vice-President Hanzel. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u46	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have believed, I can see very naively that I will never hear from a Member or a Member's voice in connection with voting with the performance and quality of the parliamentary mandate. There is nothing worse than a Member or a Member saying it. There is nothing more naive and childish, Mr Ferjenčík, through Mr President, if that is what you think. Then you would also have to look at the stunt and say that perhaps the participation of Prime Minister Babiš is 37 percent and that he is misexecuting his mandate. And then you would have to open up the question of a slippery mandate - whether he should also be a Member and also a Minister or Prime Minister. But I'm begging you, I thought those words would never come out of the mouth of the MP, don't do that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u47	Thank you. Vice-President Hanzel, followed by President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u48	Good morning, colleagues. I'll get off to Mr. Ferjenčík because I was mentioned to accumulate functions. So what I'm saying is I don't accumulate functions because I've been mayor of the city for 12 years and I've given up on January 8th. So I've accumulated this function for about two months. My participation in the vote is exactly as my colleagues have said here, and if it is slightly lower than the average, it is due to the fact that I also carry out other responsibilities in the capacity of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. And I'm convinced that your public lynch that you're working on as MPs right now is just a hint of what would happen when your crazy ideas go through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u49	President Stanjura, with a point of fact, followed by Mr Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u50	My colleagues and colleagues have been very successful in the past municipal elections. Either they defended their posts, won in their cities and villages, or conquered them and won them. And imagine that every one of them has a different way of doing it. Someone's loose, somebody's loose, somebody's giving the money back to their city in the city budget. I'm not gonna publish and say who's doing what. It's normal and it works. If the city council is so worried about their budget, don't let the person get elected to their forehead and save 100 percent of their accumulated money. You've been talking yourself, Mrs. Probator, about how great it is, how mayors bring you their experience, but they can't take money for it. That's really limping. I don't want to compare the salary unreleased and 40 percent released. The debate is completely different after that. And I don't want to attack loose council members. But that really doesn't make any sense. And I have to join you. I don't know the dumbest statistics as club president than voting. Let's take this meeting. We end the second week, we don't even have 200 votes, and of that, about 60 or 80 were the type to start at two or three, whether point 1 before point 2 or point 3 before point 2. That's what they call it. The procedural vote, see for yourself. I don't know the dumbest statistics. What is more valuable, at least for a normal standard political party, if my colleagues are able to defend our political agenda, bring amendments, convince you and, where appropriate, our voters that we are defending their interests. I haven't met a voter who's been riding the principal's vote, and he says, "ježiš, he's great, he's 99.9!" - And I say, how many times did he get off? Well, once. And you know what he said? I promise. [[Big laugh in the hall.]] But then according to the statistics, he's the best working MP!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u51	Prime Minister, time. Thank you. Mr Válek, after him Mrs Procházková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have understood that there is no point in reporting to the debate, because now it will only be about the two minutes. So basically, I just want to say that we're all in the same boat, and we got out of that period where it was more important for the neighbor to die a goat than for us to try and have two goats, until the time we try to have two goats, and we don't really care how the neighbor is. I hope we're all in the same boat and we're trying to do everything against it so that we don't envy each other and be content with our own life. And everything that creates any legislative proposal against it is incredibly, incredibly annoying to me. And I am sorry that it sounds from the mouths of people I personally appreciate because of their opinion, beliefs and various other reasons. I would be the last one to defend the Minister, but I will, because the Minister is sitting here at the same time as a Member and voting as a Member. And I know a number of activities where this person is in this position, after all, all the college students who are doctors at the same time know this situation all the time since the revolution. That's just the way it is. And I would like to say one final thing. I would hate for us to start going back to the motto - each one according to our abilities, each one according to his needs. It sounded really nice, but remember where it went, where we went with this password.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u53	Mrs Procházková, after which Mr Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u54	Thank you for the floor. I give up my word to get to the other important standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u55	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, after him President Bartoš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u56	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond briefly through the President to Mr Bauer, who spoke of a slippery mandate. So please, my colleague, listen to me, I was also talking about a slippery mandate in my speech. I think that the fact that ministers have extremely low participation in our negotiations is a problem, and I think a moving mandate is the right solution to this problem. And I already said that in my performance. Furthermore, I would like to ask colleagues who do not consider it important to come here and vote to put it on their pre-election billboards and put it there: I will be here on two thirds of the vote, I will be here on 40 percent of the vote. And if people choose them, I'll respect that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u57	Thank you. President Bartoš, after him President Kalousek, factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u58	Here are a number of proposals that should be dealt with, whether it's a slippery mandate, whether it's a real health report, if a Member is sick, so that someone doesn't hit him on the head by being in a region or doing God knows what. That's all there is to it in this House. So now we're discussing wage accumulation. I'd get back to it. Just my little response to what Mr President said here. The fact that these people don't mind isn't true. And unfortunately, even people who come here, who do their job, are taking with those who may not do so, and the whole House is taking it. And it manifests itself in the election that people do not trust politicians and voter participation is decreasing. And when the Senate elections operate here, the second round of Senate elections shows that the lack of interest is so absurd that it takes a few thousand votes to become a senator in this Parliament's second chamber. So the fact that these politicians aren't doing their job or in some way the citizens aren't happy is being resigned to politics. Then different populists can win or one who has the best marketing campaign and doesn't really do the best job. So the discontent of voters is uninterested in politics and low electoral participation in individual sub-elections, especially in the second round of Senate elections.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u59	Thank you. President Kalousek, Mr Beitl after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u60	Thank you for the floor. Me in the context of factual comments. I am still in the debate, but in my factual comments, I wanted to respond to President Fiala, who said that this proposal denies the principles of representative democracy. This would be 100% right if the municipal council had decided on the salaries of vacant posts at the municipal level if the regional level had been decided by the particular regional council. But that's not true. We decide on the salaries of both our regional representatives and the municipal representatives. By law. Because we decide about them, so there's any... Sorry, government order. It's the government's order to make a decision. It's a decision made, sorry, under the law, but it's a decision made centrally. And because it is central to local and regional policies, it is also a legitimate central adjustment, whether we like it or not. If it wasn't, if the D.A. was setting it up for themselves, then maybe give them more in the accumulation of functions. And it's none of our business. But it's a central adjustment, please. So any central change is legitimate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u61	Mr Beitl, with a factual point, Mrs Válková, also with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u62	Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vildumetzová, through Mr President, we have known each other for some years, I love you too, but I really do not find you in this law. To say that municipal budgets will be saved by reducing the salary of a successful mayor who is a member of the House... I can give you an example. I consider myself a successful mayor, twice I won the municipal elections, we won them now, but we were hugged as the winner of the elections and the new coalition, in which, by the way, there are pirát, is already preparing about one vacant place and another department of the town hall, which will cost millions of crowns. So the savings are all about success and the success of the communal is about work and results. And to my colleague Ferjenčík through Mr President. You guys are always using this-- looking for an appropriate adjective, I'd rather not use it-- the concept of going to work. Since I'm in politics, I don't go to work, I live with the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u63	Mrs Válková. After that, I'm logged in with a factual remark. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I certainly don't deserve a round of applause, that's what I'm sending. 'Cause I think it's a good thing we opened this up. It's not legal at all, it's more of a social issue. I have co-signed this law therefore, after some hesitation, that I have said to myself that, and it has already been heard from the mouth of my fellow Member, Mrs Vildumetzová, by your means, Mr Vice-President, is socially fair. Please don't whistle. Because I think it's the kind of challenge or mission, or the idea that those to whom the reward will be cut short would actually symbolically give it to others without long thought. This is what I've always been in, even the middle side, where I've entered the YES movement like this, it's the middle side, with a strong social feeling. And here I personally think that municipalities and cities deserve it. First of all. And two very briefly two sentences. As former secretary here, I can definitely tell you, confess, there is an indemnity, I can't be affected, I'm behind the speaker's counter, I really couldn't do my full parliamentary work. A klouzavý mandate would be great, because every minister has to follow his legislation to be a good minister, and he can't devote 100% to what a Member should do. That's a huge difference, and I felt it on my own. I think Mr. Justice Minister Mr. Blažek, through you, Mr. Vice-President, could confirm that, and so could others. So I think that opening up this subject is important, and I don't think we should blame each other and upset each other. It is simply not settled in the Czech Republic, for example, as in Germany, it is settled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u65	Thank you. Another point of fact, Vice-President Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u66	In my point of fact, I will respond to two things. First of all, President Kalousek, whom I appreciate mostly listening to the debate and responding adequately. This time I apologise, Mr President, through Mr President, this time you have not responded adequately to me. I really didn't question the fact that we're dealing with this law or the proposal itself. This, of course, is not against the principles of parliamentary democracy. I have warned about some of the arguments that some colleagues have used here, which could be aimed at assessing each other by various formal procedures or by ourselves whether we are hardworking or unworking politicians, and that really is only for citizens, our voters, and I insist on that. And the second point concerns President Bartoš's speech. I would very much warn against such simplification that the fact that someone does not vote indicates that they do not trust those politicians and that particular chamber or that particular council. It's just not like that. We must not put the voice of a non-voting voter above the voice of a voter in a democracy. That would be a huge mistake. There are a number of reasons why people don't go to a particular type of election. And sometimes it doesn't have to be dissatisfaction with politics. On the contrary, it is sometimes the overall satisfaction that leads to indifference and ignorance of the meaning of your own voice. And a very common cause, as we know from various studies, why people don't vote, is the excessive frequency of these elections. That should be thought about by all those who want to introduce even more direct elections and other elements of direct democracy into that system. Because the result would probably be that people's participation in each type of election will decrease even further. So please, let's not simplify these things, but just so we don't put the voice of a non-voting voter above the voter's voice. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u67	Thank you. Another registered comment is Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u68	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to respond by your means to President Bartoš or to my colleague Ferjenčík. You guys said you wanted to trust Czech politics. But do you think you're going to do it with politics, that you're constantly forcing others to evolve permanently? The people in those cities know who they're voting for. They know they're the mayor of the MPs. And if this man is successful in his own city and he deserves people's trust and people give him their trust, then why should we punish him for that? But I volunteered for one more thing. I want to ask the petitioners: why are there no MEPs in this proposal? Why are you making a distinction? Members of the European Parliament, we have now had a possible candidate for the Prague mayor as a Member of the European Parliament. Why isn't it there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u69	Thank you. There is no further application with a factual remark. Let's move on to the debate. President Kalousek, President Michálek and Mr Jelínek are registered. Mr. Kalousek, please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u70	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we very often argue in this debate that, one way or another, voters have decided not to speak to them. That, of course, is what I think we can't do and that voters decide that they want their community or their region to be led by one or the other. But they don't decide about the rewards anymore. That's not for voters to decide. If you wanted to take a test, we could do a survey of how much voters would like to take their release by representatives in the municipalities, in the region and at the central level, and maybe we would be very surprised. It's either the law or the government's order to decide about the rewards at the center. I'll start by saying that two loose functions can't be done 100% at full time. It is theoretically possible to do two jobs at full time, if someone can actually work 16 hours a day, but two relaxed functions where one commits to living and not looking at working hours by saying it correctly, so you simply can't do full time. At that central level, we take it for granted. No one thinks that he should take a Member's salary when he's a Minister or a Senator. Ministers simply take the salary of ministers and the position of MPs and senators free of charge, because both of them can't do full time. When I was the Minister of Finance, I used to sit here as the Minister of Finance, but I really didn't perform as a Member. I wasn't entitled to two salaries. Members, captains and mayors are paid dominantly from three taxes. They are so-called shared taxes, they are VAT, they are corporate tax, they are natural persons tax, and according to the budgetary determination of taxes, they are then implemented by individual budgets. And no one cares how much they take into one or the other's budget, because the most important thing is how much the state takes away from it by organized violence, which is called tax legislation. But in any case, of course, all these functions are paid by the citizen. And if we decide on it from the central level, the council doesn't decide on it itself, then this discussion is legitimate. So I very much ask that, although I do not think that the proposal is ideal, try to release him without emotion into second reading and discuss it in committees and try to free him from the emotions that I clearly feel here, and finally, maybe they decided that no, in conclusion, they decided that it was necessary to completely change the system, this is a parametric change, and they started working on changing the system. But to cut the debate by rejecting this bill, I would consider it unfortunate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u71	With a factual remark, Mr Válek. It will be followed by the preferential rights of President Michálek and President Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u72	I have one more reminiscence and a memory. We, who are older, remember the time when the activities of repairing for example family houses and so did the work. And there were two types of grunts. They went to an hour's salary, and the others went to homework. It's always been a loss. When it was an hour's salary, they were there all the time, but they didn't do anything. When it was homework, they did it fast, but it didn't last again. And I think the debate here is a little bit about what it means to work, whether it means eight hours a day to stay at work, or that means doing some work. And I don't think there's any right answer to that. If I'm gonna be running around on the soccer field the whole game, I don't work there because I'm basically not gonna meet a balloon. If Ronaldo comes out for five minutes, he'll give the goal and work very hard because he decided the game. I don't think he's quite happy to define what we actually call work. And I can't quite relate to the fact that work is equal to staying somewhere, somewhere for a certain time unit, and if I'm staying there all the time, I'm working.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u73	Have a nice noon. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Bartoň. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u74	Thank you. I'd like to make a statement. As I listened to the debate here, it was said that the mayor or deputy mayor, rather we were talking about the worries and the mayors, that he couldn't choose whether or not he would receive the full salary. It's kind of not true. The mayor can choose whether to be a loose mayor, which we have in the law. The difference between a loose and a loose mayor is only in salary, nothing else. That means, if the MP or the senator is so aware, he means well with the village, so he can still be mayor, he can be a loose mayor, and the money he saves by being a loose mayor can give up another job. This means that he will have his next vacant deputy mayor, a man who is relieved of his job, takes care of the village, represents him at a time when he needs to be in the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate, and the community will receive another paid, fully paid post. It's the loose mayor. And this proposal de facto says that the salaries of all the loose mayors who will be MPs and senators will be equal or similar to that of choosing to be a loose mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u75	Thank you. I'll read one apology. From 11 o'clock to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Mrs Miroslava Němcová apologises. And now two factual points. I will be the first to ask Mr Ivan Adamec to speak and prepare Mrs Jana Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u76	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I am having a hard time talking about this subject. I'm in a conflict of interest. I'm the mayor of the sixth term. I won all the elections with an absolute number of votes. But that's not what I was gonna say. I respond to my previous speaker through Mr President. It is not true that the mayor can determine for himself whether he is relaxed or unreleased. That's what the council has to determine. Of course, it could be his wish. I'm a loose mayor. I'm saying it again. And the money he's saving, I certainly wouldn't set up another function for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u77	Thank you. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I, too, am in a conflict of interest because I have served as deputy mayor for two periods, and now, if I get elected council on Monday, I will enter the fourth term of office as mayor. You know, maybe it's the ignorance of pirates, ignorance, through you, Mr Vice-President, but even a loose mayor gets paid. The salary is a little lower than the salary of the mayor. And you know what the greatest paradox is? That if this proposal goes through, the loose mayor will have a higher salary than the loose one. So what are we playing at here? Why are we looking like hypocrites here? And can you please answer the question of my previous speaker, Mr Munzar, about the European Members? Why aren't they there?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u79	Thank you. And I have two facts here. Mrs Jana Mračková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u80	At this point, I would like to respond to Mrs Černochová through you. Yes, you're right. Of course the mayor, the deputy mayor can be unlearned. It has to be approved by the council. There's a range of 0.3 to 0.6 times that. But it has to be approved by the council. If this bill is approved, from the first day when the chieftain, the mayor, who has been released, becomes a Member, then from that point on, he only takes 0.4 times the vacant representative. And I have one more important thing to say. There's 0.4 times the design. Of course, let us also discuss the amount. That, of course, is legitimate. If this is released for second reading, of course, this amount will certainly be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u81	Thank you. With the factual remark of Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík and Mrs Jana Černochová will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u82	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to say what Mrs. Mračková already said, that the limit is 0.6 for the unrelievable one today. Of course, it could be 0.3. But I think, in most cases, real practice is a reduction. As far as MEPs are concerned, I will suggest it at second reading. I think our original pirate proposal also included these functions. Unfortunately, my colleagues dropped it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u83	Thank you. Now, Mrs Černochová, with a factual view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So I wanted to ask the plaintiffs to confirm if it fell out and why it fell out. I thank Mr. Ferjenčík for suggesting this, if necessary. [[Noise in the hall.]] And if you could just listen to me, if you could answer one question for me. How are the positions in higher education solved here? Because many of you work in education, many of you work in health care. And if it is true here that my colleagues believe that it is not possible to perform two professions full-time, then I want to ask if, at the same time, someone who teaches and is a Member, maybe teaches the same hours of the week as someone else does the position of a relaxed councilman or mayor, I don't know if the proposal also thinks about it in this regard. And what about the doctors? With doctors who also maintain their practice for logical reasons that, of course, their mandate of Members is bound only to the term of office, unless, of course, there are early elections. So what's the deal with them? If we're all supposed to be the last to act righteous here, let's be the last to be fair, but to everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u85	Thank you. I don't have another de facto here. We will enter into a general debate. I have two applications here with priority rights - Mr Michálek, Mr Faltýnek will be prepared and Mr Jelínek will be registered without priority. Chairman of the Pirates Club, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u86	Thank you for the floor. So what are we talking about here? We're talking here about one politician not having two full-time rewards. It's only going to be 140 percent. 140 %, not 200 %. That's what the ANO and the pirát are suggesting. The ODS is opposed to this and says that it is - I quote - a crazy idea, or that it is a violation of the basic principle of representative democracy, or that voters have chosen it that way. I think if we want to find out what the voters think about this, let the ODS come up with a referendum on whether a politician should have 140 percent or 200 percent. That's how you know the will of the voters. After all, when a voter votes in an election, he doesn't figure out who gets into what position, who has what already has, etc. Of course, it's going to be mentioned somewhere, but let's just say it's not something that's always given in advance, because here we have politicians who are going to take the job, to take the next salary, and they're going to sign up after the election. So that's how it works. So the whole thing can be summed up, in principle, I think it's best described by a colleague of the Pávek of the Mayors and the Independents, that this is such a struggle for breast milk. That's what I think is best about it. [[12.10 hours]] One thing interested me is that when I and more than 50 other Members put forward a proposal, so that the government gave me a negative opinion and said that it could violate the fundamental right to pay for work. Now that he's presenting him to his colleague, and so I'm also signed under it, we've already received an agreement that it's okay, and it fits in one paragraph. Well, I thank you that the government is flexible enough to support this good idea and to take it as its own to claim it. Of course, there are minor shortcomings in the proposal, omissions as opposed to the original proposal, such as those already mentioned by the Supervisory Board, or the fact that it is still possible to accumulate the functions of regional councillors and local councillors, such cases are also known, but these are things that I hope will be completed by the amendment during the second reading. And I also appreciate the fact that the petitioner has already promised her willingness to participate in the preparation of such proposals. I appreciate the fact that we are discussing this proposal here and that it has been presented by the ANO Group. We will work together on it, just as we have now worked together, for example, at an emergency meeting on the salaries of politicians with the SPD, we will work with all the political parties with which our programme overlaps. And the last thing I'd like to say to you is very interesting. We are not the first in history to solve this problem. This problem was dealt with in the 14th and 15th centuries, when it was opposed to so-called. multi-brokering, when there were church dignitaries, then even powerful dignitaries, of course, who had lots and lots, five or more parishes and accumulated the salaries and benefits of individual parishes. And this is exactly the thing that one of the main characters of our history has opposed, and this is Jan Hus, who systematically criticized this undesirable phenomenon of multi-branching. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] So let's get on with it, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u87	That was Mr. Michálek. We have four applications for actual notes. Five. First ODS President Petr Fiala, then Mrs Černochová and Mr Kupka will be prepared. I'm not gonna read it any further. Mr President, Vice-President of the House, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u88	I will respond to President Michálek's speech. I must say that I am, of course, used to the demagogy of Czech politics, so I am not surprised. However, I will not accept it simply and will always call demagogy demagogy. So it is demagogy to claim that I have said that it is against the principle of parliamentary democracy to address this proposal, or even to limit the salaries of politicians. Of course, we can talk about that, and it's okay. But it is against the principles of parliamentary democracy, and you have suggested this in some speeches, creating such mechanisms to evaluate the work of a Member, when we would do it to each other or on the basis of some formal criteria, and not to do so by voters who are the only ones authorized to do so. That's all I said, and I insist. And, Prime Minister Michálek, don't be mad at me, but comparing multi-brokering to elected positions is really ridiculous and comical. And when you mentioned it, and I'm not going to go into any historical interpretations here, Jan Hus, so of course Jan Hus was a preacher, we all know it, but he was also the head of the Prague University. We all know that, too. So he did two functions. And I think he handled them pretty well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u89	Now, then, Mrs Jana Černochová, Mr Martin Kupka will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would perhaps just ask Mr Michálek, President of the Michálek Club, to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the founding of Czechoslovakia, to take a look at this history, how mayors and then Members worked, whether they could accumulate functions, whether it was desirable or not. Because this is a history that should interest us and which we have referred to several times in our legal order. You know, I don't even think it's hypocritical from pirates' mouth. And I would perhaps like to remind you that I went through a referendum in Prague 2 and won in an election of 32.3% of the vote, even though the pirates in Prague 2 were campaigning against me in an intense way in the fact that I am a Member and that I am running for mayor. And the referendum was 32.3%! And you know what I find most amusing about that? That the same gentlemen who used this against me in the campaign didn't run alone, but put their wives against me, or in the Embassies. m. Prague her girlfriend. So please sweep your own doorstep!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u91	So here are the factual points. I will read only the order: Mr Kupka, Mr Pávek, Mr Baxa, Mr Mašek and Mr Bartoš. I will now ask Mr Martin Kupka to speak. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I also wanted to respond very briefly to the demagogy of President Michálek, because I think that this must not be said in this form in the Chamber of Deputies. It is clear here that it is now possible for elected politicians to find a way to deal with this. There is simply an institute of unreleased functions, and a large part of us use it in this way. It's his responsibility. I would also like to respond to President Bartoš, who mentioned that what we are talking about also has a significant impact on the prestige and respect that politics enjoys. After all, at the level of municipal policy, this is due to the way the politician speaks, what concrete work is behind him, whether he has managed to implement the plans he has made for the public, whether he has also managed to communicate this to the public in a clear way, whether he is making a clear policy, and that is the most evaluated parameter in those elections. And it's not one thing. It's true what sounded like a painting. Yes, on the football field, an intense player can move very nimblely from the first moment to the last minute, but he may not get to the ball. And there is something very similar in politics. It depends on how the job looks, how the politician is able to convince the public how he performs. And, of course, in this regard, elections are decided and given to politicians, giving us clearly either trust or distrust as politicians. And there is room for politicians to simply act accordingly in the current legal order, and let us not waste unnecessary time on a debate that ultimately does not lead to change and turnover, even in the way people believe or do not believe in politics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u93	Thank you for keeping time. And now, Mr Petr Pávek, Mr Martin Baxa will be prepared. Next is Mr. Jiří Mašek, Mr. Ferjenčík and Mr. Martínek. Ambassador Pávek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u94	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to ask the lawmakers what time it meant. I am aware that all politicians, and now it doesn't matter whether they make a promise at the municipal, regional or peak level, and we all put it together and it doesn't matter at what level we act according to our best knowledge and conscience. And applying to the performance of these functions the rules of the Labor Code on eight-hour shift and the mischief that may or may not occur at the lathe is completely inappropriate. And it doesn't even touch me like a Member. I feel terrible about it, but it touches me terribly for the mayors of small villages, where no one also judges the time when they just go out at night when I can't see the problem of local citizens and the communal. Those people don't sleep at all. It's just absolutely unbelievable! Perhaps you could explain to me and to them what time means. So maybe you could suggest an increase coefficient for every little mayor who works more than eight hours. I just don't understand. I don't understand how you mix the concept of part-time with the performance of a function! And you know that in politics it's a function, it's also in our country, we sometimes work here just 20 hours a day and sometimes we have more freedom, like doctors or anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u95	So, I will now ask Mr Baxa to speak and Mr Mašek will prepare himself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u96	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Mr President, I am also one of those who are in conflict of interest with this bill. I would like to thank President Bartoš for taking up the role of rapporteur on this issue, but that does not prevent me from speaking up at this point in time to comment on the previous speeches of the pirates. And I would like to comment on this in a very similar way, which I have already used here once before at the time of the discussion, through Mr President, your proposal, Mr President Michálek. I simply see in what you say, what Mr Ferjenčík says, what many of your colleagues say, some permanent, persistent distrust at all in the principle of representative democracy at municipal level. The fact that you say that citizens should actually decide in a referendum against their elected representatives about what salaries they should have, whether they should accumulate functions etc. means that you see the world of municipal politics as a world of some vicious politicians who want to manage the municipalities in a dictatorial way and for God's sake take money, and besides, those poor citizens who don't know what their representatives are voting for upstairs. Gentlemen, I have been running since 2002 in a number of local and regional elections. I've always stood in front of the citizens with what I think, what I say, what I will do, and I think I've been very successful. And that's the principle. The man, the politician, comes before the citizens and asks them what they say about his program, his proposal, and what he wants to do. And that is the principle of municipal policy. If you do not understand this, then do not defend the laws that apply to municipal policies or municipal policies at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u97	Thank you and I will now ask Mr Jiří Mašek to speak and Mr Ferjenčík will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make one point that goes a long way back, through Mr President to Mrs Černochová and also to Mr Kalousek. Mr Kalousek said that the amount of the compensation for the representatives or salaries of the representatives was actually decided by the Government's regulation. So, yes, it needs to be handled centrally, if that's what it takes. But it's also true that it's for the unrelaxed. And Mrs Černochová, through Mr President, said here that we are getting into the paradox that then the loose, our particular case, the great regional city of 100 thousand, the case for a few months now probably the unreleased deputy, and the salary is, according to the government's regulation, over CZK 40,000. The unreleased one doesn't have any tricks, it doesn't bother us, and we, paradoxically relaxed, would get under that kind of salary, under that kind of reward. It's completely illogical. Let's really have a little different and systematic fun here. I have no objection to the debate, if, if there are two elected posts, we discuss the subject that the second will be unrelaxed and that, of course, we will reward those people under government regulations. I consider this to be logical, but such interference, when we say that it does not concern MEPs, that in fact the unrelaxed ones will be better in the end, it seems really unsystemic to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u99	Thank you and I will now ask for Mr Ferjenčík's speech and Mr Martínek will prepare himself. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u100	Thank you for the floor. I would like, through the President, to respond to my colleague Černochová and my colleague Baxa. First of all, I have been three years just like Jakub Michálek in Prague's Representation and dare to say that I know something about how municipal policy works at least at the Prague level. We managed to lift the Pirát' results from 5 to 17 percent for our actions, so I think we were also quite successful. So that's one point to make. Furthermore, I consider it a very unfair remark from my colleague, Černochová, to some of the pirate politicians. I would like to point out that the two pirates mentioned entered the pirate party before they became partners with our politicians. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] And I think it's particularly disrespectful of a woman to blame women only on their husbands' partners instead of considering them as self-meaning beings. After all, for example. Lydie Bartošová often disagrees with her husband politically.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u101	I will now ask Mr Martínek to speak and Mr Bartoš will prepare himself. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u102	First of all, I'm here to support that everyone has the right to run, whoever he is, which I think doesn't exactly agree with what somebody's saying. On the other hand, I'd like to disprove some fake news, some demagogy that's falling. In particular, I would like to correct, for example, the statement by Vice-President Fiala about when he called Jan Hus so that he actually accumulated rewards. So here I would use an interview with the scientific secretary of the Centre of Mediavelistic Studies of the Philosophy Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic by historian Pavel Soukup, who, on the question of how was Jan Hus in material terms when he preached in the Bethlehem Chapel for thousands of people, also worked as a university teacher and later even as rector of Charles University. He wasn't really getting any salary from teaching. At medieval university as a professor or as a rector had no income. It mattered if he got a job in some professor's dorm, which Hus didn't have for a long time. Teachers at the university lived off some religious rewards, lived off the fact that they were somewhere parishioners or had other positions in the church administration. Jan Hus had income as preacher and steward of the Bethlehem Chapel. The income from the Bethlehem Chapel was consistent with the average income of the Prague vicar. Hus was therefore not in need, but it should be said that the rich rectory in Prague at that time carried out many times more. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u103	I will now request Mr Bartoš's speech and prepare for Mr Baxa and Mr Fiala, Vice-President of the House, as a matter of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u104	I'd just like to add a brief addition to my colleague Ferjenčík of the Pirates. In our country, candidates, which are often open to non-stakeholders, or even for people who are engaged in another political party, are open, people apply to them, and they go through transparent primary elections. When my wife was mentioned here, she is president of Prague 2, and talk about political competition being a kind of commitment, or point out the fact of cumulation as the targeted campaign that the pirát were running - just if you say something about it being white, it's true. And I didn't notice that we were going somewhere aggressive or rhetorical, and I'm really sorry that in a society that's very focused, I would almost say mostly chauvinist, we're simply debating whether a politician could represent the pirate party in the Prague 2 election or not, and what it's got to do with whether I was married for three years or not, because Lydie was on the pirate side five years ago as a member and she didn't know me when I was admitted. She worked on that side for two years without you and I dealing with anything on a relationship level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u105	So now I'm going to ask the Vice-President of the House of Petr Fiala to perform. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u106	It's often said here that it's going to be really short, and it's not short, but it's going to be short. I thank my colleague Martínek through Mr President that he almost confirmed what I said and refuted what I did not say. That's just the way it is. And if I've brought colleagues from the Pirates Club to know more about the Middle Ages, the historical argument, the way Jan Hus lived, I'm just happy as a lifelong teacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u107	Well, that was the last actual one so far, so let's go back to standard applications. Mr Faltýnek, President of the club YES, shall be given priority, and Mr Jelínek shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u108	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. I listened carefully to the whole debate. The debate was long, very stimulating. There were interesting arguments for and against this bill. But, and it's been here many times, the law really isn't about the accumulation of functions. The law is - I was going to say about the money originally, but I'm going to say about the rewards. That's what this is about. And I have an interesting personal experience from this week alone, but it concerns not rewards, but accumulation of functions. I worked alone in Prostějov for 28 years - how much? - nine, eight, seven parliamentary periods in different positions for different political entities. [[counts on fingers]] In that last term, because I had to work full time here, I wasn't very good at going there, and I was justifiably criticized for not going to the council as a member of the council. And before the last municipal elections, I didn't want to run anymore, because even though my town, where I was born and still live for 56 years, I love and I think there's something left in that town, or there's something left behind, and it's obvious in that town, so I figured it's just unfair not to go there again and take the place of someone who can be a better representative than me. And I apologized to the voters that I wouldn't run. Unfortunately, my colleagues convinced me to go to an impossible place and, as a Prostějov patriot, a longtime representative, to simply support our candidate in that city. So I ran for 12th place. And I don't want to say, unfortunately, because that would sound pompous, but I just got elected and I got some preferential votes and I got back into this situation that I didn't want, and again I had to apologize to those voters, and actually after the first council when we formed the coalition, I elected the authorities of the city, so I resigned from the representative's mandate. And it wasn't an easy decision, but it was the sense of responsibility that prevailed in me, whether a person is able to perform more or less of those functions. We should really leave the job accumulation on the voters. There's just people who can make it, and there's people like me who can't make it, and they can't make it. That is why I made this decision in my particular case in Prostějov. And now, one more sentence, allow me to make a suggestion that lies on the table in front of us. It is a proposal that addresses the reduction of remuneration in the accumulation of functions. It certainly has something to do with the debate on the accumulation of functions, which may still be taking place here in the House at some point in time over some other bill, but I believe that, and I have already said here, Mr Michálek, the Government has given a positive opinion on this, so I believe that our parliamentary club will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u109	So, that was the chairman of the ANO member's club Jaroslav Faltýnek. And now I will ask for Mr Jelínek's speech, so far the last application for the general debate. So, Mr. Ambassador, please, you have the floor. [[Application form.]] So, you're applying, too. Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u110	Hello, Mr President, colleagues. In the program of our SPD movement, we are opposed to the accumulation of functions, which is also related to rewards. On 1. 1. 2018 Act No.99/2017 Coll., amending the Act on the remuneration of representatives, became effective. In that law, in the event of the continuance of several functions, the vacant representative shall be rewarded for the one of his duties for which the greatest reward is due. We will therefore submit an amendment to the proposal which is tabled so that Members, Senators and Members do not receive any further remuneration for municipal multiple functions. Of course, if there is a proposal or a proposal to ban accumulation of functions, we will be very happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u111	Well, thank you. And now I have another factual one here, and it is Mr. Jiří Bláha. So I'm gonna ask you to perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been listening to the speeches that have been going on for a long time, and one thing we need to face straight. The choice of people who want to do something extra today is so limited. It's just that there's no one left to go anywhere to do anything, to do something responsibly and really do with their heart and go work for us citizens. It often happens that people who claim to want to work in politics or representatives or something are only going to do so in order to secure a place. And that's why let's be on the ground with the pride that somebody gave us a vote. Those citizens often had no choice but to really go along with choosing the necessary evil at the expense of greater evil. [[Laughing in the courtroom]] [[Unique applause, laughter, screams in the courtroom]] That is just what it is, and it is also caused by this debate, which a lot of people will not understand. [[The laughter in the courtroom grew stronger.]] So let's think about whether we're still able to be proud of being elected because the way the political environment develops is the result of what we're talking about here today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u113	Well, thank you. And now I have two factual points. First, Mr Petr Pávek and Mr Petr Gazdík will be prepared. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out one more positive aspect of the accumulation of functions, and that is, and unfortunately, the proponents of this life experience are lacking, many mayors have a natural ambition to get into the regional council so that they can co-influence the decision of the regional council, the region, to bring their municipal experience there, because without it as the region in a moment it will be separated from reality and begin to invent things that will start to look bad on those municipalities. Let us also be glad that mayors and regional representatives are still sitting among us, because they bring real topics to this House and watch over the nonsense that politicians here might come to from the bottom. And I would also like to draw your attention to one subject, and that is a systemic matter, certainly not to this debate, just as a topic for the future. It's just that the problem lies in the reward tables in the public administration. Why do we have 16,000 dead souls in the ministries and bodies of the central government today? Because they're taking money to reward the officials who are there today. Why do we have a accumulation of functions today, where doctors, for example, are full-time in hospitals or in practice and then full-time in universities? Well, because the paytables are wrong, because the remuneration system is actually lying and alibiistic from the very ground up. That's all I have to say so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u115	Well, thank you. And I have no further factual point. Now, for the general debate, I am the last member of Mr Marek Benda who has so far signed up. Before you get to the microphone, I'll read an apology. Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes today from 12 a.m. to midnight for medical reasons. Please, Mr. Benda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u116	Mr Vice-President, draftsman, Madam Secretary, Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I seldom make too many comments in order not to abuse this institute, which I feel is being dramatically overused. So I will respond briefly to a debate that was bizarre at times, as if we had already reached candidates or non-tenant partners. But that's another thing. [[12.40 hours]] First of all, first of all. In general, most political textbooks claim that low participation in elections is not indicative of dissatisfaction with the political situation. On the contrary. At a time of crisis, there is a higher voter turnout. At the moment of the confrontation of the country for any reason comes higher electoral participation. Lower electoral participation doesn't prove anything about people being dissatisfied, but, for example, they don't give a damn that they feel like nothing big is happening anyway. So just let those who have an interest in it decide and whom I think must always be thanked for their interest and vote. Secondly, Mr Bláh. I think citizens have a choice of infinitely many variations, as is shown here in this House. We have the broadest political spectrum since 1990, including some almost bizarre groups. I've always been grateful to the citizens for voting for me, and I'm not ashamed of it. I suggest we return the bill to the petitioners for revision. Of course, it depends on how this Chamber of Deputies decides, but I really consider it a mistake to approach a game of envy. I'm suspicious that so many political subjects in the Chamber of Deputies are hoping for these tricks by pirates who, unfortunately, are only showing us the destruction of the political scene. In the morning, when there is a fundamental debate about how patients' data are to be protected or not, how they need to deal with drug policy, we hear from the mouth of anarchist pirate party who came up with Internet protection that it's actually great. But the moment we whip ourselves forever, or other politicians, or other representatives, or voting choices that are completely stupid and similar ideas, yes, the pirate party will be the loudest. I think those who are helping them do this are helping them to make such proposals, making a huge mistake. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u117	Thank you. That's right now... Then the chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. I'm not even gonna ask if you're the only one who's factual, general, so general.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u118	Thank you. I want to get back to the debate about how politicians, politicians, and whether or not it has something to do with electoral participation. In the long run, public opinion polls show that citizens have the greatest confidence in their local policies, mayors, mayors, municipal and municipal councils. The smallest in the Chamber of Deputies. Let us look at the electoral participation of the last elections of these two types, so that I do not make a full list since 1993 when the Czech Republic was founded. The communal elections are just behind us. The average electoral participation was 47.3 %. Somewhere much taller, somewhere lower, I say 47.3. In the last elections to the Chamber of Deputies, it was 60 per cent. It's not working out. Somehow it doesn't work out, such a straight line that the greater the confidence, the higher the voter turnout. You can see that's not true. If you look without a party shirt at the results of the municipal elections, you will find that successful mayors often defend regardless of the party shirt. I think that each party, maybe with the exception of communists, I don't know exactly, has stories of successful mayors who had an above-average electoral outcome in their own political party and defended their mandate, have gained confidence regardless of what political forces are currently distributed at central political level. And now all of a sudden, the mayors, the mayors or the mayors who are at the same time MPs, we're making somebody who shouldn't take a reward for that. And I don't understand why. I really think it's a contempt for voters' votes. And let's not say that when voters vote in municipal elections, they don't know who the mayor's candidate is. Yes, sometimes it happens that in the end someone else is nominated by the party or movement, but these are very rare cases. In the vast majority of cases, this is not the case. And when a citizen goes to the local elections, he knows who the candidate for a particular political party is for the mayor, mayor, mayor or mayor. On the other hand, if you look at municipal elections, it's almost a fifth of the municipalities where citizens have no choice, where there is one candidate. That's not entirely healthy. Let's face it. And it's over 1,100 and some small towns. Rather, we should take care of this as legislators, whether we create such conditions for the members of the municipal council, whether they are mayors, whether they are in coalition or opposition, in order to increase interest, in order to increase the interest of voters, so that the 47 percent are at least 60 in municipal elections and that voters actually, if possible, have a real selection of at least two candidates. There are also municipalities where municipal elections cannot take place, because there is not a sufficient number of interested people in this difficult job. Many of us have experience in local politics, and it rarely sounds here. So I would particularly like to appreciate the work of mayors in small municipalities. It's not easy anywhere. But if I take statutory cities, you have a professional apparatus, you have a big office, so it will be very helpful to the mayor or mayor. But mayors of small parts do not have a work apparatus and de facto have to perform the same duties as those who run cities or who run large cities. Will we also sanction the mayors of small municipalities who are by chance - not by chance - because voters want it - at the same time as Members or Senators? I'd like to, and I'm looking forward to seeing that law pass through the House, if it passes, I'd quite like to record the debate in the Senate. They're talking about themselves, and they're right it's a winner's chamber. Each elected senator had to win in his own name, in a direct duel, either in the first round, those are exceptions, I think 12 for the entire existence of the Senate, or 14, but then in the second round. And many of them are very successful mayors of smaller or small villages. But because their success was eventually evaluated by a wider community of voters, not only the voters in his particular community, where they receive 80, 90 percent. But that's just not enough to get elected. So you're gonna call them the outrages you call today? One last point, don't think of it as a political attack, but a statement of fact. For example, the ANO movement in 2017, I remember, ran and said: We are against the accumulation of functions. If our mayor or the chieftain is elected, we'll make sure he doesn't perform two functions. The result is different. I fully respect that, and I'm not criticizing it. But then you see what the reality is. The reality is completely different. I say, it's an individual decision by each of those who perform a different function, whether to keep it, whether to keep it relaxed, unreleased or to leave it. But I don't have any ambition - if we don't deal with the incompatibility of functions, that's another debate, we're ready for it, I'm not saying we're going to support it, but that's a rational debate about the incompatibility of functions, that was perfectly fine. But here I really feel like a group of petitioners, they don't say it like that, they know better than voters, who should be the leader of these cities and how they should be rewarded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u119	I shall just repeat, if I have understood Mr Marek Benda correctly, that his proposal is that he is proposing to return the proposal put forward to the applicant for completion. Okay, that's marked right there. And now I'm going to look in the hall because I don't have an application, if that's the case, that I don't have anyone else logged in. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Suggestor, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is interested? Or the rapporteur, Ivan Bartoš? Are you interested in the final words? You're not interested in final words. I have one more apology to make sure we don't forget her. Mr Radek Vondráček apologizes from 12 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons. I will therefore call a Member of the Gong to vote because we will vote on the proposal of Mr Marek Benda. Interest in checkout. I'm signing you off, please sign in with your voting cards. [[12.50 hours]] I'm gonna read what we're gonna vote on one more time. We have here the proposal of Mr Marek Benda, who proposes to return the proposal for completion. The question is whether we agree to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. In the vote number 196, 152 Members voted in favour of 39, against 54. The motion was denied. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. And so I'm asking if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee. Mr Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u120	From the logic of the matter, I suggest that the guarantee committee be a budget committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u121	We have a proposal to make it a budget committee, too. We will take the vote. We will be the first to vote on who agrees that the proposal should be directed to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. [[Objection from the diaper.]] We will vote on the counterproposal. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be directed to the Committee on Budgetary Affairs? Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. In the vote number 197, 155 Members voted in favour of 36, against 71. The motion was denied. So we will proceed to the vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. In the vote number 198, 155 Members voted in favour of 144, against 1. Result: was accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. With priority rights, Mr Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u122	Thank you. I believe that, by definition, this should be ordered to the constitutionally-legal committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-005-078.u123	We're already talking about whether you have a motion for a commandment to another committee. Yes. That's what I was going to ask. So I'm gonna ask you again officially. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? We have a proposal for constitutional law, but there is no other proposal. We will take the vote. Mr Bartošek proposes that he be ordered, as the next committee, to discuss this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee. Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. In the vote number 199 registered 156 Members, for 47, against 4. The motion was denied. I hereby conclude negotiations in the first reading of the bill. I have an apology here. Mr Vít Rakušan apologizes between 13:00 and 19:00 on a business trip. Vice-President of the House Tomáš Hanzel apologizes until the end of the day for reasons of work. We'll go to the next press that's
