ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u1	27. Government bill amending Act No. 277/2013 Sb., on exchange activities, as amended by Act No. 183/2017 Coll., and Act No. 370/2017 Sb., on payment / House printing 188/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor. And, of course, the rapporteur, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, can also sit down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello again. Let me briefly introduce you to the Government's bill amending the Exchange Act. It is no secret that the practices of some exchange offices, especially in the centre of Prague, do not make the Czech Republic a good name. In the Old Town Square, a tourist can receive CZK 15 for the euro or charge a fee of 28 percent at the airport. This is happening despite the fact that the law requires the client to be informed about courses and fees...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that you remain calm in the hall so that the Minister may speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u4	This is done despite the fact that the law requires the client to be informed about the rates and fees on the exchange note as well as on the pre-contractual information received by the client prior to the exchange. However, it turns out that tourists are not or simply do not read this information, and they will only know the disadvantage of the exchange afterwards. As a result, further strengthening of the information obligation does not appear to be effective. The proposed amendment responds to this situation by several measures. First, the customer's right to withdraw from the exchange shop is introduced within two hours of the shift. In the case of a money exchange machine, the withdrawal period is set at three working days. If the customer cannot withdraw from the contract because it is prevented by an obstacle on the side of the exchange office, e.g. The exchanger is ill or closed for technical reasons, a six-month replacement period is set for withdrawal. In order to avoid abuse of the institution of withdrawal for speculation, the extent to which it is possible to withdraw is limited to EUR 1000. It will therefore be possible to withdraw from 90 to 95 percent of the exchange shops. Pre-contractual information shall be deleted for transactions where it is possible to withdraw from the contract. The client will thus receive one document, where all necessary information will be provided for him, including information on the right of withdrawal. The proposal also states that the more favourable terms of the shift, so called. VIP offer must not be advertised in the form of exchange rate. There will be only one ticket to the premises and its surroundings. This is intended to avoid substitution of the standard exchange rate and more favourable offers. The right to claim remuneration for the execution of the exchange trade shall also be limited. The remuneration will only be taken into account at the rate of the exchange rate. Clients will be sufficient to compare exchange rates and will not have to calculate the amount of remuneration. Payment is only allowed in case of payment of a cheque, coin purchase or credit card payment, as in such cases the exchange transaction is linked to higher costs. The amendment also responds to the sale of additional services and goods when closing exchange shops. Clients are sometimes sold a souvenir item or a map at a high price that does not correspond to the normal price. The map commonly distributed free of charge is thus sold to the client e.g. For 150 crowns and currency exchange, the client is thus provided with a much worse exchange rate. It will also be possible for these shops to withdraw together with the withdrawal from the exchange trade. The Act also specifies the accounting obligations of the exchange offices and aligns the definition of the beneficial owner with Act No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and the financing of terrorism. The newly introduced institutes are then followed by an adjustment of offences. The amendment further defines the limit between the operation of the exchange operation and the provision of payment services. It will be built for sure that payment by card at the exchange office when buying the cash is a currency exchange store. On the contrary, in the Law on Payment, the definition of cash-free trade is regulated by a foreign currency. Furthermore, the Payment Service Act is also governed by the European Commission's implementing regulation on the Payment Services Directive. So much for the novel. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your consideration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u5	I thank the Minister and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I don't think there's any point in repeating the re-enactment of the proposal, since it was introduced by the Minister. I'm gonna stop by the most important aspect of the law, and that's the possibility of pulling out of the contract. After all, this proposal was already submitted by STAN during this period, unfortunately the votes YES and SPD abstained and we had to wait for the Ministry's version. Thank you, at least, for keeping the promise and putting it before us within the time limit she promised on the committee at our request. Withdrawal from the contract is a key element of the law. It means that when a tourist makes a trade in a currency exchange and finds that he didn't get as much money as he expected - it is often argued in this matter by some free market, but the real problem is that exchange tickets are deliberately made to be misleading, and tourists may overlook some hidden fee, or there are two exchange tickets for different volumes of purchases, which, by the way, this law also solves - at a time when a tourist, but may of course also be a Czech citizen, receives money in that exchange office and is not satisfied with the amount he received, so at the same time he will also receive a receipt that he has in English and English directly information that he has two hours to cancel the store, receive money back and exchange somewhere else. I think that is a very reasonable way to regulate this sector. He's bureaucratically minimalist, he just says they have an obligation to cancel the deal. It greatly improves the situation of both the city police and the state police, to which tourists normally now turn with the fact that they were robbed at the exchange office or that they received far less money than what they expected for the value, and the policeman will only tell them that they can't do anything about it, unfortunately. They'll be notified that they can get the money back in two hours, they can escort them to the exchange office directly, help with that, and the whole problem will be solved. This should make a fundamental contribution to the disappearance of fraudulent exchange offices from Prague and other cities over time. That is why I am asking you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u7	Thank you. And I am opening up a general debate. Mr. Jakub Michálek was the first to sign up with priority rights. I don't have another application at the moment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the Government has presented this bill to the Chamber of Deputies. From the beginning, we appealed to the Minister and provided her with all the assistance, even had a meeting with Patrik Nacher in the Czech National Bank, where the proposal came from, from where he arrived at the Ministry, he went through a commentary procedure. During that time he had read the first version of STAN's proposal, so I'm glad we finally got to the fact that we have a government bill that will provide, if I say it ugly, the final solution to the scum money exchange in the center of Prague. I was also personally looking at the Prague 1 council, talking to the representatives there, and they appealed to me that it was none of their business, that it was legislation, that they couldn't do anything about it, and they appreciated that Parliament had finally begun to pursue it. I also proposed this on the Prague City of Representation, which has a legislative initiative, but unfortunately the laws that the regions present are not very serious. Well, I tried it on my own, as it looks in some kind of exchange room, actually for the first time with Rubeš Jank, who took me there, and I saw the money exchange actually rob some Japonka girl and how she was furious and how she couldn't do anything about it, because some people instead of focusing on how to produce added value, so they focus on how to confuse and rob someone. And that's the way it's gonna be in the company. So when I came to the money exchange, they sent me there to say it was a dirty currency exchange, so I went there and I thought, well, they changed prices because of me! So I figured, it said 22 kroner for the euro, so I guess that's still possible. I understand 25 would probably be better, but I'm gonna slap 22 through my pocket to try it out. And then, of course, they charged me 16 crowns. So I, too, am the MP, two colleges - matphyz, law - so I also got fooled by looking at that ticket that wasn't meant for the normal people where the shift took place. It's all meant to rob the tourists. When a tourist comes in, he puts in 10 euros, he gets 160 crowns. If he gives $10, he gets CZK 120 for it, or CZK 12 for a dollar. And once he gets the money back, there's no such thing as a mistake, what we have in the rest of the legal system. Those currency exchangers simply don't want to return any money, even though this person might notice it right away, and if he sees it in a few hours, he has no chance at all. And of course, the tourists who were there thanked us for pointing them out that we have this kind of crappy money exchange in Prague 1 and they asked us why, for God's sake, legislators and legislation don't do anything about it when everyone knows about it. It's been 20 years here, x governments have been able to deal with it, it's been easy, they've already dealt with it abroad, but the tourists may come here, visit several countries, decide in Europe, and maybe exchange money in each country, and obviously not everyone can be so vigilant and so equipped and ready to expose these frauds right away. They also expect exchange activities to be a form of financial activity that is strictly regulated and supervised by a national bank, but the supervision of a national bank cannot only consist of checking some formal announcements when we all know that they are actually robbing tourists there. So it is only by this law, and I am very fond of it to be approved, so by this law we will finally achieve that Prague will finally stop having the bad reputation in the field of exchange and that we will be attracted to the capital of Prague and perhaps to a more vibrant clientele, which expects some standard of services and the functioning of the company, not just tourists who come here to ride a beer train. So much for the currency exchange. I wanted to thank the Minister once again for responding to our request. Of course, there are many techniques used to rob tourists. For example, when I came to another exchange office, they gave me a different course than the one they gave to tourists who were there right before me, and I didn't have to say anything at all. That means they're putting in a course based on the language that this person speaks, how it's given to them. I understand that there is to be some contractual freedom, which, of course, I like the free market, but at the moment when it is primarily based on using a foreign error, we in the Code of Criminal Procedure are qualified as a fraud. So it's great that we're finally dealing with this. And the last thing I wanted to say is that there are techniques that are a lot on the edge of very similar stealing from people, such as fictional courses that are offered in different terminals, so there are also sometimes essentially confusing messages, when you have to click right or left, you don't know what to click on. When it clicks to the right, it gets a standard convenient course at its bank, and when it clicks - or vice versa, when it clicks to the right, it gets a disadvantageous course, so what one would do intuitively goes on as if, it gets a disadvantageous course, and if it clicks to the left that it doesn't want the dynamic currency transfer service, which, of course, those people don't understand at all what it is, some of them don't even speak English in our population in our school system, so they have to click left so it doesn't steal from them. So these are also techniques that I think are on the edge of ethics, and those entrepreneurs should find some honest way to make money. The last thing I wanted to say was that we would like tourists to come here for the winter season, on Christmas Eve, etc., not have to deal with the fact that they will be robbed by money changers on Christmas Eve or Christmas Advent, so I think it would be serious to meet the capital city of Prague, the Prague 1 district, and to shorten the time to discuss this bill for 30 days, that is, the one that cannot be vouched. I have already consulted this preliminaryly and agreed with the Minister, so I am very pleased that the Minister also supports this, and I propose this shortening of the time to discuss this amendment to 30 days of the Exchanges Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u9	Thank you, too. I've noticed your proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the general debate. I have Mr Nacher's seat, but he is preferred to the written application made by Mr Čižinský, but he is before Mr Benešík with a factual remark. So please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u10	Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have also tried to exchange money in Prague. I confirm what was said here. But there's another little catch, such a trick - service fee. So these currency exchanges lure a tourist to a relatively interesting course, but they have a commission there, like 20 percent. So that's the big difference. It's immoral, it's outrageous, and I think we should have done something about it a long time ago. I think it is high time, and I would also support it if it is not technically too difficult for us to reduce this law to the shortest possible time and not to embarrass ourselves in the Czech Republic, especially in Prague, with such shameful conduct by money changers. And I think that after some tourists come to Prague by train to the main station and then exchange money, they probably don't have much reason to come back. So I intercede for us to be as quick as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u11	I, too, thank you, and I have now been given priority rights by Mr Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u12	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are celebrating our anniversary today. It is five months since the House rejected the votes of members of the YES and the SPD bill on exchange activities, which dealt with the same thing. He handled it the same way. The only difference between that and the government proposal we had to wait five months for, and the shame that is happening in the Czech Republic is that now the informed consent is being released on the receipt you receive at the exchange office. [[16.10 hours]] I just wanted to remind you how unnecessary this politics you're doing here at the House. Just because it was an opposition proposal, it was to take him down, only because you felt the marketing potential at which you could do some points, so you extended the embarrassment of the Czech Republic in exchange offices for a year. It's a shame. I think we should all be interested in making the image of the Czech Republic as best as possible abroad, to have bonita clients come here, who will also exchange here and don't spoil the mood if they sit down on the way from the airport, and they still won't confirm it by taking it from the first exchange office. I also witnessed tourists standing outside your exchange, this was a tourist from Rome who flew to the Czech Republic for the weekend and spent Saturday night writing on paper on a napkin from the restaurant "the thieves" stood in front of the exchange and discouraged everyone who was to come there. That is why we also submitted this bill in February, and on April 12, you swept the bill away by the votes of the YES and the SPD. We're gonna support cutting the deadline to 30 days, because the law should have been here a long time ago, and it could have been a long time ago if you hadn't taken him down like that. We will support him, and I hope that he will pass through the negotiations as quickly as possible, so that this disgrace, which has been here for no reason for a year longer than it had to be, is over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u13	I thank you and now please, Mr Čižinský. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u14	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to say that I welcome the bill. I'm also sorry that the last law didn't go any further, because the problem was getting worse all the time. In the past few months, they've shut down the honest exchange offices again, we've had one here in Lesser Town Square that was honest and closed two months ago because she just couldn't compete with those bastards. And the problem could not be solved as the mayors solve the problem in their own district or in their own community. If there are any scumbags out there who might be stealing from seniors, they're really gonna inform us outside the plant when the bastard gets turned off, and the son of a bitch moves out, we've got experience from Prague 7. But I couldn't deal with this because there were so many places. Plus, it got worse because the honest ones had to close because they couldn't stand the competition. Therefore, I would also like to support the shortening of the deadline, because Prague needs it and Prague needs a better reputation with tourists who come to us, that these people come back and spend more time than the average two nights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u15	Thank you, too. I now have Vice-President Okamura with priority rights. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u16	So, we as the SPD are glad that there is finally a comprehensive proposal for a solution to the exchange operation. From what I've heard here, all the travel experts are here at once, even though I've never seen them in my 20-year experience and I haven't heard anything about them. So now Mr. Farský is suddenly an expert in tourism. They're amateurs who, of course, don't know anything about tourism. We're glad the government's finally here, the complex proposal, because the issue is really serious. The image of the Czech Republic needs to be improved. We need to adopt a comprehensive proposal discussed, which also fits into other legislation. So, of course, as we said a few months ago, we were happy to wait for this complex proposal, which is actually dealt with as we imagine, much more detail, such as we support in the SPD, because here I am reporting a conflict of interest, I am in charge of the Association of Czech Travel Agencies and Agencies, and we want stable tourism, stable arrival tourism. And it does not only concern foreigners, as you say here, but it also concerns Czech tourists who exchange before their travels abroad. So this aspect is really wide here, and I'm glad we were the ones who, too, could be said, initiated by the government to prepare this complex proposal. So we support him and we are glad that Czech and foreign tourists will be more protected from misleading practices of exchange offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u17	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Your performance brought up factual remarks. First, I ask Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Čižinský will prepare. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u18	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to warn you - to get to know thieves, so you don't have to be an expert on tourism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u19	Thank you. Mr Čižinský, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u20	Thank you. I wanted to say more or less the same through Mr President that if Mr Okamura thinks that only professionals will recognize thieves, that is not the case. And, of course, nothing prevented it from correcting the law and supplementing it. Time was completely lost, and other people and others were robbed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u21	Thank you and please Mr Jurečka. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u22	Thank you. Something here has already been told by my predecessors. I just want to respond technically to Mr Okamura, who has already left the Chamber after calling some colleagues unprofessionals on the issue. I think it would be a little more humble here, because I don't know what the right application is to be an expert on tourism, but when I sometimes hear my colleague Okamura talking about it, and I don't want to make it easy at all, but he talks about economic issues, about pensions, the state budget, about migration, about public media, about freedom of speech, that is a fairly wide range of topics. I don't know if he's an expert on everything. Anyway, I think it is necessary for him to feel that there is the right of each of us to speak on the issue that is being discussed here. Saying there's someone better or worse expert on something - I wouldn't dare say it on the subject of agriculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u23	Thank you, too. Mr Benešík, Mr. Benešík, came forward with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u24	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, so we have here, Mr Okamura, proposals on a referendum, which I think is a very complex, sophisticated constitutional law issue. But it certainly does not matter here that it is a parliamentary initiative, because apparently Mr Okamura is the largest expert on referendums in the Czech Republic. I also think that even a layman knows how to know a thief, he doesn't have to be a specialist, and I just felt like when I was a kid, I was pretentious, and now I'm not wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u25	Thank you. Mrs Procházková came forward with a factual remark. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u26	Hello, everyone. I don't want to be arrogant, but I have one thing to say. Anyone who's pulling these election shirts now, like we should have agreed to five months ago, should have realized that they were here much sooner than YES, SPD and Pirates in the government, and they could have set it up a long time ago. Then why didn't they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u27	Thank you, too. Mr Farský, then Mr Feri, has now signed up with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u28	Thank you for the floor. I admire anyone who can do something in life. And I have an admiration for Mr. Okamur. I can't imagine setting up a travel agency for stuffed animals. That's something I couldn't do, and just as I do, okay. [[Laughter.]] He did it for a living, and it's great. At the same time, I'm a lawyer, and I'm not going to say that the only person who can design laws and speak to the law desk is a lawyer. No, it's okay, there's more votes from more sectors. There's more experience here. And that is what the Chamber of Deputies is for. That's what it's about, since the big debate, that we're here from different social groups, with different schools or without schools. But that's what the Chamber of Deputies is for. With regard to that time, through Mr President to Mrs Procházková, for four years the Ministry of Finance had the ANO movement, and even it should now try to deny it, at the most in the campaign and the mayor in Prague. And it didn't move a millimeter. That's why we passed the law five months ago. And now to say that you took him down five months ago, because we didn't bring him before, when the responsibility was four years before you, it's kind of like a little bit of a soft touch. But, of course, it's just a possible opinion, it's probably not an argument. I would like to - but I think it's pointless to repeat at this point the debate that took place here five months ago. The law is necessary for the Czech Republic, which we agree on. It came to me and it still seems pointless that he wasn't five months away from the legislative work, because it was also the first reading. This was not the third reading if we decided on the final reading of the law and said: it is miswritten, so we reject it. That was the first reading. And between first and second reading, anyone could have made any amendment that would have corrected the errors from his point of view. We, as mayors and independent of this proposal, will also submit an amendment, albeit within a short period of time, because there we see a mistake in losing the informed consent. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u29	Thank you. And Mr. Feri, please. Mr. Holík will be ready. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just a brief response towards Mrs Procházková through Mr President. By the time the TOP 09 was in government, I was only 17 years old, so I couldn't quite intervene. But to what has already been slightly suggested here. April 15th was discussed here. And I was reading the Steno Protocols, and the Secretary of Finance mentioned that the interreort had already ended on 23 March. Then it went to the government. This means that a comprehensive amendment could already have been prepared here, and we could have had it resolved a long time ago. I think that's a perfectly standard procedure, because that's what the D.O.D.s do on committees. Suddenly, amendments appear in the air, which apparently were not written by Members who come from the Ministry. And if there was one thing that was completely consensual, where we could all just agree that we didn't want tourists to be robbed to have Prague, and not just Prague, the damaged reputation, it could have been ready long ago, and we could have saved five months. The twenty-third ended the interreort, the material could have been discussed long ago, the deadlines could have been shortened. And you mentioned it in the speech. So the twenty-third ended the interreort. The material is burdened with some new flaws, but they could have been repaired long ago, and we could have had it sorted out by now. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u31	Thank you, too. And Mr. Holík, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u32	Dear colleagues and colleagues, if I look at the board, it's here... or we're dealing with the Exchange Act. But instead of doing it, we're gonna be shooting at our colleague here for 20 minutes. That would probably be something like when I come to the store and the shopkeepers talk about children or their love affairs. I confess, I have little to perform here in this House because sometimes I am ashamed of my colleagues' performances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u33	Thank you. And that's how we used up the actual notes. So, please, Mr Nacher, who reported from place to place of debate a long time ago. It's yours, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I originally wanted to talk a little bit about something else. However, the debate that began with the performance of a fellow Farský, who talked about not wanting to politicize about it, to put on a pre-election pin, a pin to compliment himself, that he had come forward with it five months ago. I'd like to repeat the words that Jakub Michálek said. We were at the Czech National Bank almost a year ago. We talked about this and we could also bring it here and make it a parliamentary proposal from the proposals prepared by the Czech National Bank. I assume that was the proposal you put forward here that you didn't create anything original in the offices. And I did my job here at the time to tell you some of the differences between the MP's proposal and the comprehensive proposal of the Ministry of Finance. That's why we've been waiting for it. I'm also glad the Secretary of State has put it here. Also, when she met me every time, she saw me as such a walking reminder - currency exchange, currency exchange. So we reminded it, Jakub Michálek did the same thing. So - limitation of the right of withdrawal. This is not addressed in the parliamentary proposal. In the Ministry of Finance's proposal, yes. Information on the right to withdraw. It is not in the parliamentary proposal, it is in the Ministry's proposal. Resignation on shifts made using a money exchange machine. It doesn't matter at all, it's a matter of course. The obstacle to resignation on the exchanger's side was not addressed at all in this parliamentary proposal. The exchanger can't return the original currency. These are the shifts when it comes to exotic currencies. It didn't matter either. The Ministry of Finance's proposal is being dealt with. In other words, we're dealing with what we're saying here, that's complex, and a whole bunch of other changes. I'm not gonna keep you, co-workers, co-workers. A whole series of other changes that solve the proposal from the Ministry of Finance workshop. Yes. We can always say it could have been sooner. I'm glad it's here. I'll support the acceleration for those 30 days to catch the winter season. I also have personal experience. And here I have to say, you can't really talk about the market here. That's just pure fraud, 'cause there's a whole series of tricks. It's not just that there's a disadvantageous course, but it's a combination of different tricks that a normal mortal simply doesn't have a chance to figure out. If the course is normal, there's another charge. Or, as the Minister said, some other services or products, such as maps, are being handed over. I am glad that the proposal is also dealing with information and information in advance, bilingually at least, so that tourists know what the rights are. I'd like to tell you in advance that I'm going to do a second reading from the experience I have, to extend the cancellation from the two hours to three hours, especially for those situations where these strangers exchange it for an hour before closing time, then they find out, they don't make it, and the next day they'll only be missing an hour. So thank you again. I'm sorry about the opening slip with the spreadsheet, but I reacted and I didn't want to take advantage of factual remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u35	Thank you, too. Vice-President Okamura apologizes to us for business reasons until 16.45. At this point, I am not registering any further applications for the debate, so I am ending the debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. The rapporteur does. So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u36	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to support the proposal as rapporteur to shorten the deadline. We see that there is consensus in the whole House. I'm sure there are some small things about, like, some small bureaucratic responsibilities that we're going to be talking about on committees. But I don't think it's a problem to make it. The proposal is therefore comprehensively processed from the government. I think some of these finished measures have a head and a heel. The law is good and solves one of the biggest embarrassments of contemporary Prague. So let's back him up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-008-027.u37	Thank you. We'll move on with that. Proposals for repayment or rejection have not been made. So we will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. So I guess I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. before we vote. I don't see a checkout application. Initiating the vote, I ask who is for the commandment. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 60, 166 Members were enrolled, for 136, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has been directed to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees? It's not like that. In that case, we will now consider the proposal to shorten the deadlines that have been set in the debate. There's been a 30-spinning motion... I see an application for a check-out. Then I'll have you all checked out. Please sign up with your cards again. As I said earlier, a proposal was made in the debate to shorten the deadline for committee discussions by 30 days to 30 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of shortening the deadline. Who's against it? In voting number 61, 153 Members were enrolled, for 141, against 5. The motion was accepted. This has exhausted this press at this reading. Thank you. I thank the appellant and the rapporteur. I'll see you at the next reading. [[16.30 hours]] Next is point number
