ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u1	7. Proposal by Members Jan Hamáček, Jan Birk, Kateřina Valachová and Petr Dolínek for the Act amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labor Code, as amended, and some other laws /house print 109/ - second reading The present proposal will be made by Mrs Kateřina Valachová, who is at the rapporteur's table, and before I give her the floor, I note that we ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was also directed to the Economic Committee. The committee resolution was delivered to you as House printings 109/2 to 104. [[correct: up to 4]] I will also ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Marek Novák, to take his place at the rapporteur's table, and, if necessary, I will request a speech from Mr Novák and Mr Jan Bauer, who is the rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs. I will now ask the applicant's representative Kateřina Valachová to state the proposal. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, at this stage, allow me to approach again the parliamentary proposal of Members and Members of Social Democracy, which aims to renew the payment of sickness from the first day of the illness. This is an amendment to the Labour Code and the content of this proposal is that everyone who is sick can benefit from their insurance from the 60 per cent assessment basis from Day 1 of the disease. With regard to the current discussions in the House's bodies, the Economic Committee and the Social Policy Committee have sat down after the amendment has been passed through the first reading. The Economic Committee did not recommend the amendment for approval of the plenary, on the contrary, the Social Committee - here I point out and stress, as a committee of guarantee - supported the amendment of the law and supported the approval of the plenary. As part of this amendment, honourable Members, I believe that, more than ever, we exchange views on how we should prevent the abuse of sickness insurance, the abuse of incapacity for work. I would like to stress that this amendment aims at something completely different. It is aimed at this, and I firmly believe that we all agree on this in the end, confirm that health is of the highest value, cannot be bought with it, and if we have sickness insurance, everyone should have the right, if he is sick, every employee from the first day of the disease should have dignified financial security so that the disease does not have to pass over and threaten not only its health, but if we want to talk about the economy, eventually public finances, of course from another package, public health insurance, but I believe that, on the other hand, this savings will cost us tenfold in quotes. Very often we also hear that so called. Incompetence abusers use doctors to back up to three days to confirm their employees' incapacity for work. Here it is most important to stress that under the Labour Code, and so it is, the employee must report his illness to the employer immediately. We don't need to change anything there. The fact that doctors have, say, a bureaucratic administrative option to confirm their inability to work back for up to three days serves for ill honest workers who have, for example, chronic diseases who have suffered an accident at work, which they have treated for example. emergency services, which is why doctors have these three days. I stress this because the employee rule must and should report its indisposition to the employer and that he will not enter the job immediately, without delay, so it is. I therefore ask my colleagues to use this proxy in the debate on the recovery of sickness from Day 1 as little as possible and rather concentrate on whether it is really a period of quarantine, i.e. non-payment in the first three days of the disease, she fulfilled what she had, and if what some say causes the card, i.e. that we are reduced by incapacity for work, if it doesn't just mean that the doctor doesn't expose the sick person to disability, maybe saves some papers, the sick person doesn't go to the doctor, but the disease passes, or the sick worker takes leave, which, of course, serves for other reasons, a leave for recovery, not for treatment. I thank everyone for the following substantive debate, and I am merely calling on myself to sign up in a detailed debate on Amendments 1255 and 1256. These amendments are moving the effectiveness of the amendment to the Labour Code and the renewal of the payment of sickness from the first day from 1 July 2019. This is an adjustment resulting from the Government's programming declaration and the compliance of existing coalition parties. [[11.20 hours]] The second amendment concerns legislative technical adjustment and substantive adjustment, so that there is no doubt that if the House approves the payment of sick leave of 60 per cent from the first day, the members of the Security Councils will continue, as it is now, to have 100% performance. Here I am, although it is a serious matter of health, to lighten the bill, because you can see that if our police officers, firemen and soldiers have 100 percent of their sick leave from day one, it does not mean that our country's defence, street security, or homes are burned without firefighters intervening. It is on these three employment groups that it can be seen that it is a functional model, even more helpful to employees and serves well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u3	I would like to thank Mrs Kateřina Valachová, the plaintiff of the plaintiffs. The words will be taken first by the rapporteur of the guarantee committee Marek Novák. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., the Labour Code, as amended, and some other laws, House Press No. 109, was discussed at first reading on 29. 5. 2018 when a motion for refusal was filed. However, this has not been approved by the Chamber of Deputies. In addition, this proposal was discussed on 30 May 2018 and ordered by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies 248 to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee and further to the Economic Committee as a committee of the next. The Economic Committee has discussed the proposal and I assume that the rapporteur of this committee will present a resolution on this proposal to us here. No amendments have been tabled to the Committee on Social Policy when discussing this point, therefore, nor has it discussed any amendments. So let me introduce you to the 60th resolution of the Committee on Social Policy from its 14th meeting on 6 September 2018 on the proposal by Members Jan Hamáček, Jan Birk, Kateřina Valachová and Petr Dolínek on the issue of the Act amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., the Labour Code, as amended, and some other laws, House Press No. 109. After the justification of the representative of the group of petitioners, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, Mr Marek Novák's report, and after the debate, the Social Policy Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommends, first, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the proposal by Members Jan Hamáček, Jan Birk, Kateřina Valachová and Petr Dolínek for the issue of the Act amending Act number 262/2006 Coll., the Labour Code, as amended, and some other laws, House print number 109. Secondly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinion to the Chamber of Deputies meeting and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u5	I thank the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Marek Novák, and I will now ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Jan Bauer, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and to justify any amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will stick strictly to the Rules of Procedure, so I will keep my political position for the general debate in which I have duly signed up. Therefore, allow me only briefly to provide information on the way in which the discussion was discussed at the meeting of the Economic Committee, which was held on 5 September. As at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, there was a relatively turbulent and very interesting discussion at the meeting of the Economic Committee, which resulted not in what the petitioner said that we recommend or do not recommend. The Committee on Economic Affairs, and now I'm getting ahead of the resolution, has recommended rejecting it. This is what the resolution of the Economic Committee itself sounds like. However, I will allow myself to read it here to comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, after hearing the interpretation of the representatives of the petitioners and the intelligence report, recommends my little things first. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic has to reject the number 109, first of all. Secondly, it instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present a report at the Chamber of Deputies meeting on the results of this draft law in the Economic Committee. Finally, thirdly, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which has been implemented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate, in which Mr Karel Rais was the first to come forward. Mr. Jan Bauer will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u8	Hello. I am not going to talk about the length of sickness, but together with my colleague Válková, we have prepared an amendment which concerns essentially the issue of decision-making and the registration of working hours of academic workers. Those who have been here in the past period remember that we have pointed out that it is not possible for fixed working hours to be essentially defined for academic and scientific workers, and we think that this needs to be reopened. The current wording of the Labour Code and the general arrangements for scheduling and recording working hours and working shifts do not sufficiently reflect the specifics of higher education environments associated with the work of academic staff. The duties of academic staff result from their involvement in both pedagogical and creative activities, and the timetable for the work is, of course, dependent on the schedule of teachers in individual semesters, which are alternated by examination periods. I could describe the current situation in more detail, but I think we all know this relatively well, so I would concentrate on the proposed amendment, which brings about a positive change in terms of simplifying the obligation to schedule and record working hours and working shifts. Newly, this obligation applies only to the period of direct pedagogical activity of the academic worker, to the time of teaching, and to cases where the employer would order the presence in the workplace, by which we understand the time of entrance exams, testing, consultation hours, open-door days and so on. Therefore, the obligation to schedule and record only extends to the time when the employee stays at the employer's place of employment, or at another agreed place, such as where practical instruction takes place. For other activities, the amendment leaves the academic worker free to schedule these both in place and in time. In particular, it is a scientific, research, innovation, artistic and other creative activity, which academic staff also carry out according to the scope of the work referred to in Section 70 of the Higher Education Act. Of course, we repeatedly hear a statement in schools: college is not a factory and science, research is simply impossible to do. Thus, a proposal that narrows the obligation to schedule and record direct pedagogical activities is nothing new and surprising in the field of education. For almost two years, similar arrangements have been effective for pedagogical workers in regional education, where this issue is regulated by Section 22a of Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws. Unfortunately, this adjustment has not achieved a uniform adjustment for the whole segment of education, which is also for universities, and that is why we are simply trying to remedy this omission here. From the perspective of legislative technical solutions, the amendment respects the existing practice, namely that sectoral exceptions to the general regulation of the Labour Code are made through special laws, in our case the Higher Education Act, which regulates the field of higher education comprehensively. Similarly, regional education has become the case through the amendment of the law on pedagogical workers, as I said. This is not, therefore, an adhesive that is constitutionally unconformable. Finally, I would point out that the proposal is supported by a broad academic public and the Council of Higher Education Institutions, which is together with the Czech Rectors' Conference in the Act on the Representation of Higher Education Institutions under the Higher Education Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u9	I thank Mr Karel Rais for his speech. Mr Jan Bauera is now speaking, and I will ask a colleague to take my turn for a moment, because I also report briefly to the debate after Mr Bauer. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u10	Once again, Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I have already quoted my opinion relatively in detail in my speech during the first reading. Of course, we also presented our views at the above-mentioned meeting of the Economic Committee. And, of course, I assume that I will not speak to this proposal at the third reading, because I would like very much - and now I repeat this: I am putting forward a motion to reject, which will be voted on at the third reading. Even before it comes to the vote itself at the third reading, I firmly believe that, in the end, this initiative by Members on the part of social democracy will not be approved. Therefore, let me really just sum up my personal position on this proposal after these two difficult discussions. Firstly, for political reasons, rules are being rewritten which work and which have been created as a hard compromise in the past. That's why it's so sad and hard to explain why it's coming, because it's a thing in the past that's been discussed and then approved on tripartite. And here I would like to say that there is a big difference between when the law is being negotiated or when the law is being announced to someone and the intention. When this is discussed, all parties, in this case mainly employers and the whole tripartite, can express themselves, they can say some position and they can protest or give some counterproposals, and then there is another procedure, which is a notification, which means that someone will be notified that we are coming with some intention, and the counterparty is very difficult to defend and does not have enough room to comment on it, which I think is this bill which I do not think has been discussed and has been notified to the other parties. This proposal is made in spite of the clear disapproval of employers. I am thinking above all of the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce or the Association of Industry and Trade. I would also like to say that the government, where the YES movement plays its leading role, with its current position, and I hope that it will change that position, clearly taking absolute responsibility for this unfinished, undisputed bill. It is simply the responsibility, above all, of the ANO movement, which can prevent or allow this bill to pass. And it is precisely this YES movement, which has been acting both on its own, but also here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, as a pro-business party, but in practice I sometimes feel that it is acting a little backwards. And here I would like to say that this cannot be said on a flat-rate basis, because I very much appreciate the exceptions, especially my colleagues from the Economic Committee, because I am very pleased that not all of them, but a significant majority of the members of the YES movement in the Economic Committee clearly expressed their opinion that this is a bad proposal and that they cannot identify with it. I would also like to say that, according to the years of operation, the time of the card has proven to have fulfilled its purpose, and also that the time of the card has contributed to the greater responsibility of the employees, and here I am thinking mainly of the short-term illness. Last but not least, the time of quarantine clearly reduces the scope for fictitious illness, which is due to many statistics, but also various studies. It is good to note that by abolishing the time of the Karenary, if it passes, I believe that it will not happen, in my opinion we will return the Czech Republic by many years, when, among other things, maybe double the disease, also based on statistics. You will damage the business environment by canceling the Karen period, you will damage companies, and in my opinion you will not help employees at all, and you will inevitably bring the demands of many employers to tens of thousands of other employees by abolishing the Karenary period. This information also fell at the meeting of the Economic Committee and can be expected. In conclusion, two things. According to experience, when some things are discussed, so rarely in the case of economic or business matters, there is a single position on one issue by businessmen, self-employed companies, small companies, medium-sized companies or large companies. There is rarely a single position on an economic problem. And here I would like to not only the petitioner, but above all the representative of the government movement YES to point out that this may be historical, I do not know if it is the first time, but it is a condition where all these entrepreneurs, whether the self-employed or large companies, say clearly: no, we do not support it, we do not agree with it, please do not do this and do not cancel the time of the card. It's history's first time. I hope you will hear their views. And another one. He's been a little altered today's program, but we've also had a discussion on the agenda. Incompetents and I would like to say the second, very interesting moment. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš made it conditional upon the abolition of the Karenary period by introducing the so-called Incompetents. It's not my idea, it's media-based, and he actually made it public several times, and I don't know if it's gonna happen today, or at some next meeting when he gets to an incompetent. And maybe the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will talk about it, so part of the proposal is that the effectiveness of the lack of a year, two in a better case, in a worse case, is shifted by three and a follow-up. That is why I think it would be fair for someone - the Prime Minister, who is perhaps not here - to say from the government if he really means it. If the conditional approval of the time is to approve and introduce an e-Clerical, which is particularly strongly called for by both small businessmen and large companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u11	Thank you, Mr Jan Bauer, and I will give you a moment of rotation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u12	I shall ask with priority law and with a factual remark from Vice-President Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u13	With priority rights. I hope I can make it in two minutes, and yet I applied with priority rights. You know, a colleague named Bauer said one thing that's troubling me. Yes, it is a difficult compromise, but the compromise that was being concluded here is due to the fact that someone violated the compromise in 2008. It was Mirek Topolánek and his government that introduced this matter, and in a way it was a matter which the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic was the only thing in the so-called. Topolánkův's backpack was canceled. The introduction of Karen's time is a mistake. I understand that many of you view health insurance as quasi-tax. She also behaves as such, but as insurance it was introduced, and if there is an insurance event, and my colleague Valachová here said on the example of armed forces, the insurance benefits are to be fulfilled. That's reality. And since the 1920's, that has been the case. It's up to us to either say it's going to be a tax, it's going to be part of the tax, and then it's going to be treated differently than in insurance, or we're going to keep calling it health insurance, and in that case we have to do it in the insurance event, i.e. In sickness, normally pay for what these people prepaid just by paying for health insurance. And that's true of both the employer and the employee. So in this respect it is necessary to pour, as they say, pure wines: Yes, the compromise here was violated by someone else in 2008. It was no government other than Mirek Topolánek and the Constitutional Court canceled it. It is another matter that has been re-established after 2010. Yes, for ten years, somebody's been breaking the 80- or 90-year-old compromise, but they're not employees. And I think that employers have just been given a lot of relief from this, both in the tax and other areas that were part of the tripartite negotiations. [[11.40 hours]] Please don't take unilateral information as a single coin here, and let me point out that paying that time is, in my opinion, only a dignified act against anyone who can get sick, and anyone can really get sick of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u14	I thank the Vice-President. I have two factual points here. The first is President Stanjura and Mr Juříček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u15	I don't often like to do this, but Vice-President Filip doesn't understand the insurance system at all. [[Cheer up in the right side of the hall.]] Health insurance, right, is paid by the employee and employer, but that's what treatment is paid for, not sick leave. So when you talk about health insurance, you're completely out of this law. If we talk about sickness insurance, only the employer pays. And just when the card period was introduced, the sickness insurance employee's payment was canceled. This is as if we argued with VAT that the excise duty has changed to diesel when we are talking about health insurance in connection with this bill. This is used to provide health care. I thought we were all clear in the Chamber of Deputies. I see I was wrong. I was too optimistic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u16	Thank you. Sorry about cutting my act short, I should have said the whole thing. Okay. We continue with Mr Juříček's speech with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u17	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for my indisposed voice, but through the President, I want to address Vojtěch Filip, whom I greatly appreciate for his wisdom, but I was there at the time. Probably few of you were there when the Karen's period was negotiated in 2008. I was the one who negotiated it at the time as Vice President of the Union of Trade and Trade, and that's why that concession was made, 1.5 percent of the reduction in social insurance for employees, so that it would actually be a substitute for giving in to what was then quite obvious and necessary, because the disease in the Czech Republic was being criticized over the long term from all the states that had their subsidiaritys, their companies, and they wanted the situation to improve so that there wasn't such a high illness, because it was known that we were a little bit of Švejec and that the discipline wasn't the same as it is in the United States, France or England. It's all for refills. And, Vojtěch, it was like I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u18	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We will continue with the debate by speaking to Mr Karel Krejza. Mrs Šafránková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u19	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read the amendment under No. 1368, in a moment I will justify in a detailed debate, but I will nevertheless say a little bit of a detour to the time of the Karenary. We have experienced a change in the rules that no one has ever minded about health fees, health-care regulatory fees, and residence fees. Political responsibility and prize were borne by the Civil Democratic Party. The citizens got used to it, the health services stabilized it. And for some reason, basically unknown to me, because the citizens didn't really care anymore, these charges were abolished in the past period. And the impacts for such a district hospital owned by the city - 13 million CZK, which today the citizens of the city pay and have to take somewhere, take them away from children in kindergarten, schools, athletes, pavements and so on. I don't think it's a good step to interrupt something that really doesn't bother anyone and that helped fix work ethic. The illness was really here, and there's no doubt about it. I will now return to that amendment, which reacts a little bit to the fact that this House is constantly making life difficult for entrepreneurs, making it difficult for citizens, making it difficult for them to live, increasing bureaucracy, and this simple amendment could easily reduce bureaucracy. Its aim is to eliminate unnecessary official tests if you have a driving licence and drive a service vehicle. It is not about the time of the cards, but it could simplify bureaucracy. I'll sign up for him in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u20	I thank Mr Krejza. Now, Mrs Šafránková. I apologise, with priority right - Mrs. Still wait - Chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u21	I apologize to my colleague. I've applied before, and the Vice-President hasn't seen me, which is normal. Our political position is simple. We support the rejection of this bill. I would say that Mr Juříček, a government Member, gave a pregnant reasoning at first reading. So I'm not gonna repeat the grounds for rejection, I think they're obvious. I am very pleased that the economic committee, which is supposed to take care of the business and the Czech economy, has actually adopted this and recommends us as a committee, the Chamber of Deputies, to reject it. First a little political evaluation and then a specific amendment that I will make on behalf of our club. The left loves to talk about how important social dialogue and tripartite are. I think we've all finally accepted it, that we've learned to live with it, that we've learned to negotiate and that it works. Once - and this is the regular procedure of the left, it was the same in the last term when the government of Bohuslav Sobotka prepared an extensive amendment to the Labour Code, which was supported by trade unions, and they were employers, suddenly we did not need social dialogue, suddenly we did not need the agreement of the social partners, suddenly the Social Democrats fulfilled the wishes of the unions. And it repeats itself again. The same people who cling to social dialogue, who even allocate money to social dialogue in the state budget, say what in this case? Employers are against it, but we don't care. Suddenly there is no need to agree with the social partners. So let's imagine that it would be the other way around. Imagine that there will be a proposal that will support employers, right-wing parties and trade unions shouting that they don't like it, which is a legitimate struggle of opinion. I can already see the Social Democrats' platters taking turns behind the mic on the clock and saying, "But right-wing friends, the social dialogue, that's key, we don't have a match with the social partners." And here they don't give a shit. They don't give a damn. And I think the YES movement knows very well that it's not good. I'm sure of it. And it's a payment for the coalition with the ČSSD. That's all it is. But someone else is supposed to pay the bill - and that is the subject of our amendment. The proposal, as presented by a group of Members from the Czech Social Democratic Party - I know you put it in place because it is two days before the elections, so you think that if you defend it here today, the voters will come and vote for you, it is possible, I understand it. We would also like to discuss our laws today, so that we can tell the voters what we are promoting before the election, unfortunately, we have no power to enforce it. [[11.50 hours]] The proposal that has been tabled brings compensation to entrepreneurs, employers, I would rather say to employers, about 40 per cent of the estimated increased costs and 60 per cent of the estimated costs are borne by employers. That's why I said someone else should pay. The amendment, which I will then submit, is referred to as House document 1384, is based on the documents of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. He was presented with tripartite, I'd tell the petitioners if they'd listened to me. The amendment is based on what has been presented to tripartite, what has been prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and which actually says that if that period of quarantine is introduced, it will be fully compensated for by employers. That he would participate in the payment, virtually. all taxpayers. That's just the way it is. If you want to pay for something, all taxpayers pay for it, whether companies, individuals, property taxes, put whatever you want in there. So, of course, we're in favour of rejection. If this doesn't work out, we think this is a much fairer approach to employers. Nothing will change for employees after a possible amendment has been adopted. The political objective will be met, the first three days will be reimbursed. The question is who will bear the costs. I would quote part of the explanatory statement from the amendment. He is processed very precisely, he also has a explanatory report, general and specific. The purpose of this is to complete the parliamentary proposal for the abolition of the so-called This is a period during which, in the event of temporary incapacity for work, the person in employment or in the service is not entitled to reimbursement of salary or salary, or any salary or other income which is the subject of the House press 109, so as to respond better - and now I read it to you, listen, it is a bit comical when he reads it by an opposition Member - to better correspond to the commitment made in the Government's programming declaration. I quote from the government's programming statement. Now. Start of quote: "From 1 July 2019 we will resume compensation for wages in the first three days of incapacity for work of 60 per cent of the daily assessment base and discuss how to compensate employers for this step." End of quote from the government's programming statement. This amendment reflects in the wording of the relevant legislation variant III prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and this report, which was submitted to the Council's Board of Economic and Social Agreement, in short, tripartite, on 9 May 2018. The basic parameters of this variant are based, first, on a pay compensation of 60 per cent from the measuring base from the first day of the disease. This is in line with the current text of the House's press 109. Secondly, for the current compensation to employers for the comprehensive provision of this agenda in the form of a reduction in the pay compensation period from 14 to 11 days. After this period, he enters the same way as the sickness benefit paid by the Czech Social Security Administration. And discounts on insurance paid to an employer for sickness insurance by 0.5 percentage points. Reductions from 2.3 to 1.8, not only 0,2 %, as suggested by Members of Social Democracy, i.e. from 2.3 to 2.1. Then it is in the explanatory memorandum, which all laws apply, that is actually similar to the parliamentary proposal. If you look, I will not delay you with the details, in the explanatory report of the various variants, I think it is not too difficult for Members' clubs to get to the materials discussed in tripartite, so you will find that this amendment covers roughly the estimated costs for employers. Roughly. It's not exactly, but it's not the 40 percent. This may be close to 100 percent, and the practice tells me that it is 90 or 95 percent, but certainly not just 40, as social democracy members suggest. Let's also think about what happens when you increase the costs of employers' decisions by law. And you will compensate. Well, there's going to be a reduction in the pay gap. That's easy. The free funds that employers would have to give to cover the costs of the cancellation of the Karenary period could, for example, be used in the adoption of this amendment. to raise wages or some kind of investment. That's how they design just 40 percent, and they still say it's fair. I will then turn myself in, and I believe that after the debate in the Economic Committee and then in plenary - and now I am turning to the members of the ANO movement, because if the amendment is adopted, the text of the Government's programming statement, where I quote, will not be broken. It won't break. Because we will find a way to compensate employers, and at the same time the first three days would be reimbursed at a rate of 60 per cent of the daily basis of assessment. So do not be convinced that this amendment is contrary to the coalition treaty. Of course, it is much better to vote to reject the law, so I would end my speech for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u22	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Mrs Šafránková has been enrolled properly in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u23	I will disappoint Zbyněk Stanjura by means of the President, because there will be no socialist parade here as on the clock, only I am here as the promoter. And I will address social dialogue. Social dialogue in the case of the renewal of sickness payments from the first day of the disease has been conducted throughout the past government until basically so far. The proposal by Members for Social Democracy is based on the last largest approach of the employee and employer party in 2016. And it is precisely a reflection in this parliamentary proposal, including that it was also agreed that an electronic incapacity would be launched to reduce the bureaucratic burden on employers. Towards the House's plenary: Even in the case of the approval of an electronic disability, even in the case of compensation which is part of the Social Democrats' parliamentary proposal, but not even in the case of compensation which has been discussed as higher in the context of social dialogue, the employer's party disagreed with the introduction of the renewal of sickness payments from the first day. As far as history is concerned, I was not present in the negotiation of employers and employees in 2008, of course. However, the opinion of Pavel Juříček, through you, Mr President, by employers' parties, has been expressed here. However, I would like to interpret what was said on the Social Committee of the parties of the trade unions Jaroslav Zavadil, it would be fair for it to sound here, because employees -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u24	My colleague, you have made a point of fact, and I have to take your word for it, because the time for the factual remark is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u25	I'll sign up for the discussion later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u26	Then sign in, I'm sure it'll come to you. Now, Mrs Šafránková, Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u27	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now dealing with a bill designed to remedy a situation that makes life difficult for many of our citizens. Thus, a situation where workers receive nothing after the first three days of illness and then a smaller part of it is paid by the employer before the State takes over after 14 days of payment. House printing No. The 109, presented by the ČSSD, may appear to correct the matter, but it is rather an illusion. It contains an extension of the employer's obligation to pay, in addition to the 4th to 14th day of illness, the employee's remuneration or salary in exchange for a slight reduction in employer's contributions to sickness insurance. In the future, this represents an enormous financial burden of about 30% for employers, which could be liquidation for many of them, which could lead to a reduction in employment, or at least a reduction in wage and other benefits for employees. The proposal itself contradicts the basic logic of the social security system as it transfers the risk and also the payment of insurance benefits from the insurer to the policyholder. [[12.00 hours]] The amendment I propose seeks to resolve this situation in an amicable manner so as to improve the situation for both employees and employers. For employees, by receiving sickness insurance benefits from the first day of the disease, and for employers by not being more burdened with additional costs. At the same time, this should prevent, on the part of the State, the costs of serious workers' illness, which, by replacing the first three days of the disease, was massively incurred in all groups of employees. The proposal is made at a time when the increased costs of this proposal can still be taken into account in the State Budget Act. The amendment tabled by já and the SPD corrects the unfortunate situation in which an employee has to pay sickness insurance, but then the state leaves him in the lurch for the first three days. The state should once again ensure that people don't have to worry about the slightest disease. And he should also be paid for the first three days of sick leave for employees to pay for his sickness insurance. On the other hand, I do not wish to undermine the current functioning of the system with this proposal, so I leave the previous set-up of the performance from the fourth to the 14th day of the illness within the employer's competence. I hope that this compromise proposal, which is not a revolution, but could help a lot, will also be the best solution for you, fellow Members, to improve the health and financial situation of many of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u28	Thank you. Mrs Richterová, Mr Juříček, will also speak in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u29	Thank you for the floor. Much has already been said in this discussion, but one thing, if I listened well, was not sufficiently highlighted. We're talking about illness here, but we're also talking about how employment is supposed to look, what the working environment is supposed to look like. It has not yet been said that it is the overall satisfaction with the working environment and how the working context is set up that significantly affects how people are sick and how they can carry out their work in the long term. At the outset, I would like to point out that, contrary to what is being said here, as employers are on the one hand and the view of employees on the other hand, I would like to remind you that in fact everyone needs to pull together, employers need healthy employees who will be happy to come to work, and then we will not have to talk about whether the illness is real or not. It's actually a crucial change of view. I'm gonna stop by this thing because the employers who value their employees nowadays are inventing what to offer so that people stay and manage it well in the long run, so that somehow one person is not in disposable quotes, but is actually taken fully. And in that view, we already have companies that, as a benefit, pay just in case of sick leave. Or about 29,30% of companies have as a benefit sick days, offering the opportunity not to go to the doctor, but purely after agreement with the employer to stay at home, lie down. Next thing. In the discussion, it didn't really work out that the home office is sometimes used either, in short, one's understanding - I'm not feeling very well today, I'm going to work out of the house. All I'm saying is benefits and opportunities for certain professions for people in certain types of work. At the same time, it is a solution that is not reflected in statistics. Then we will have the huge differences between illness today and illness before the introduction of the Karenary period, as there was a great deal of noise. But how can it be taken into account that in recent years both the number of sick days offered by companies has grown massively, and the possibility to work remotely from home to so-called. Home office? All of this needs to be taken into account in the fact that no statistics will cover the diversity. We really can't just use numbers that are dull in this direction. Come in. There are foreign studies regarding the relationship between medical illness and the fact that people go to work sick. Interestingly, the correlation is positive, humanly speaking, and often one who is often ill has to see a doctor to confirm that he is sick, so he also often goes to work with some illness. So it is not that people either go to work sick, pass disease, bite their teeth, or go to the doctor at every slightest thing. It is most often based on foreign studies that people who are much sicker are, and then, depending on how confident they are at the job, they either allow themselves to go to the doctor or try to go to the work sick, which of course reduces productivity, infects others etc. So this is the most common picture of the studies. And then, of course, we have professions that actually face the fact that people don't occasionally come there. We will not pretend that in those manual professions or very low-skilled, it is a big problem for people who provide operations, i.e. for employers and responsible persons, that they are simply logically and rightly annoyed. But, in turn, the solution is not to have a forced period of quarantine, i.e. not to be paid in sickness for all, but the solution is to work with these specific professions, which are not really so many, in a completely different way. There is actually responsibility for colleagues who then perform work instead of those who did not come, etc. But we're back to that working environment at the workplace, we're on the level of relationships between employers and employees, and at the same time on the level of how working teams are built. In summary. In professions, let's say, more qualified, sometimes also called white collars, have been the standard of sick days in recent years, sometimes even benefits such as payback for lost wages. So there's not a lot of short-term diseases that are going to show up officially in the statistics. Furthermore, people often take vacations. They can't use it to recover, but they just cover their short-term diseases through this tool. That's also something the statistics won't pick up. Finally, it has not yet been said how crossing short-term viruses, minor diseases affect chronic diseases, and in the finals it has an impact on the fact that we are likely to continue to have an active working age, simply that as an elder, we will have to work parttime, but we will. And it is from this point of view that it is absolutely crucial that throughout this long working life we take care of this and have the conditions not to go to work sick, so that colleagues do not have to spout at us unnecessarily, and that people who, for example, pay mortgages and have lower wages, and that is reality, do not have to be afraid to be sick, because then simply at the end of the month absolutely fail to come out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u30	Thank you. Mr Nacher will respond with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u31	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to my colleague Richterová, if she can hear me. I think that either let's go from a state to a state, so either we take the statistics as a basis, or we don't take them according to how it suits us. I haven't heard it yet, and I heard it for the first time, and then I listened very carefully to the fact that we're taking half of the statistics as facts, and we're taking half of the statistics as inconclusive. That's the first point. [[12.10 hours]] And second point. Well, just the mention about sick days, about home office, about it - when I was getting ready for a TV show, I called my first city company in Prague and found out that they're already cashing out their first three days as a certain employee benefit. Well, that's just proof that it works. Not that it doesn't work! So I understand it completely the other way around that even in a period of almost zero unemployment, the system is flexible, and it is in this that it can adapt. So I didn't understand a little bit that the examples that were given here were given as examples of how it didn't work. On the contrary, I think these were examples of how it works very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u32	Thank you. Mrs Richterová, with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u33	Thank you. Today, a number of positive reports from the world of employee benefits and the emphasis on making the working environment the best is due to low unemployment. But it doesn't always have to be that way. That's the first point. And the second point-- statistics. I would just like all of us sitting here to realize that the fact that a number of companies have introduced three to five sick days a year in recent years or the opportunity to work from home to home office means that we have less illness in statistics than those people have, because it simply doesn't manifest itself in statements. They're not gonna show up sick. It's just a phone call, an e-mail saying they're gonna stay home, work out of the house, or they're just taking a sick day that day. And this is the bottom line that we don't have statistics that may seem constant because this important aspect of a third of companies that have sick days doesn't take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u34	Thank you. In the general debate, Mr Juříček, followed by Mr Pávek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I love it when - I am not a know-it-all, but I am only talking about things that I know from my personal experience and from my neighborhood, and I love it when someone tells us a lot in theory without personal ties and personal experience. But I want to tell you four things. Firstly, the system and methodology. Secondly, something about our companies, our businesses. Third, the way the world looks at us. And fourthly, the last operational things that happen here in the Czech Republic. To the system. Yes, I have to confirm Zbyněk Stanjura's words that there was an unwritten saying that if the employer and employees' representatives don't agree on something, neither the government nor the coalition will enter into it. I realise, of course, that I am a coalition MP and that there is no way I want to dismantle any stability of an existing government and an existing coalition, but from the beginning I said this was a really unfortunate step. So to the system and to the methodology. It's really always been like this. I was the partner, formerly Jarda Zavadil and Pepa Středula, and we always had consensus, and when there was consensus and agreement, it was finally said in tripartite: yes, government, we wish to take this step together. But it never happened in the ten years I remember, that a step would be taken to initiate the government without agreeing as employers and employees. And I think that peace was here and that the responsibility of employers in the Czech Republic exists high because we are not a typical market that is oriented only to money, but we are a society that has some kind of social feelings and social ties. The second thing is what the situation in businesses looks like. There are 313,000 job vacancies now, and there are about 240,000 unemployed people. It's often said that they're unemployable, but I don't think so, either, because I'm always like, once every two years, I employ 40 so-called. Incompetent, the whole company always opposes me and in a month stays three, and in a year stays one as a rule. But I keep repeating it with a kind of naive thesis that it is possible to teach every person to work. So let's assume that of the 240 grand they're capable of, and we can mobilize any part of it, but let's not make a big illusion if it's 20 percent or something like that. The situation in companies is evaluated by Germany so that the Czech Republic is experiencing a labour market crisis and German companies very briefly, it is about two or three months ago, they decided not to put new orders into the Czech Republic anymore. New orders are placed in Portugal, Spain, more sophisticated things in Germany, partly something in Poland and very small in Slovakia. I can't give you the information in writing, but I work in this global market, so I have the information, and I'm enough lakmus paper for this information, because the automotive I work in is all-hugging. They assessed this as a labour market crisis because the Czech Republic is not able to take all the steps that have been mentioned in the past, whether education, whether it be apprentices, secondary schools or universities, it is related to each other because they are intersecting things, and it is not able to even ensure a greater opening of borders, even if we have opened borders for 20,000 Ukrajinec and possibly for others, but I can say from personal experience that we had both Rumun and Srb and Bulhar and it is completely different from Ukrajinec and possibly Polák, which we also employ. So the situation is dramatic, and people just aren't, and we're not able to deliver, our partners are losing intimacy with us, and every day I don't deal with anything else, along with a bunch of other directors, how we're gonna survive the next day. In a situation like this, putting in place a quarantine period is foolishness, and I think it's irresponsible. And, of course, I say yes to that, I agree with the fact that businesses have calculated, because compensating companies does not just compensate financially, I understand that compensation will also be methodical and it will also be systemic, and that if we accept the premise that we lose about 50 000 employees, which raises about four percentage points in terms of increased illness, and these are the facts that we are able to prove by moving, because when you take it, in 2008, about 1.2 million people were sick each year and in 2009 it fell to about 620 000 people, and now it is growing again, because people have a higher standard of living and are not so desperate for money, so they are calmly dealing with exactly what we have discussed here, that they have no problem even having their first three days unpaid. As to why the Economic Committee has also opposed it. Because it may have a significant impact on the state budget. And I don't think we can care either that even if we were to correct and do what Zbyněk Stanjura suggested here through the President that it would be the 1st to 11th day when it was also mentioned this way, when it was said that it would be an eIncompetent when it was said that the market needed to be freed up so that we could replace the missing 50,000 people with some other people, and when the financial compensation from 0.2 to 0.5 to 0.6 rises, because that is how it is based on calculations based on different scenarios, that is the real, real value that will cost companies, so that it is possible. [[12.20 hours]] So I'm suggesting that we need to build pillars so that we don't damage the economy, too. Because the argument is quite simple. We are the most industrialized countries in Europe. Industry accounts for around 34 percent of gross domestic product. Germany is about 21, 22 percent. So, of course, we need people for those companies, and we need people to come to work in the morning at all, so you can plan a job. And if we lose 200 billion potential sales from the 5.5 trillion crowns that industry is doing today, and today we all feed, including you, it could, of course, have an impact on the state budget, and then we'll all be surprised. And that's the third level I'm talking about. And I, as a person who has a sense of responsibility here in these scams, to tell you the truth, I fear that despite the value added tax, we will not be able to make it through social and health care, even if it is clear that it will have an impact on increased health insurance. It's obvious. And the analysis shows that it's going to be somewhere between maybe 3.5 billion and 5 billion. But I don't just want to talk about what it's gonna be, what it's gonna be, what it's gonna be, what it's gonna be, what it's gonna be, what it's gonna be, what it's gonna be, but it's gonna be the state budget that we're all responsible for. And the last situation. I was at the Brno fair on Monday, just like Secretary Maláčová here, who I saw around here somewhere. And the current vice president of the Union of Industry, and there was maybe a thousand companies, asked who was in favour of canceling the Karenary period. There wasn't a single hand. When he asked who was in favour of really canceling, two hands were raised. Madam Secretary Maláčová and Pepa Středula. Logically. And we're gonna push ourselves like this? And now I want to give you one last piece of information. Because yesterday morning, of course, I had to go to work quickly, because we have problems with deliveries, so I was still on the phone with a colleague, CEO of the multinational group, and he said to me, "Pavel, it's over now, because management decisions - and now I can't tell which company it is because he wanted me to keep it secret, it's a company that employs 850 people in Brno - the management decision is to move all business to India because it's a labour market crisis and the last drop is a period of quarantine. So the management's decision is. And we don't care if our companies leave. Not to me. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u36	Thank you. Mr Luzar will speak with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By means of you to my esteemed colleague Juříček, although I respect him very much. There were no arguments on the economic committee about the state budget, they were added here today and they are interesting figures, but there were arguments mainly about the lack of labour. Of course, the members of the Economic Committee, who had a relationship with the employment of employees, perceived this from their practice. But let me also remind you of the history of the Czech Republic. When it was said that as it was said today that industry fed us all, there was a time when we all contributed to the development of industry. We all contributed to the development of the banking sector or the rendering so that the industry could work, and so far no one has given it back to all of us. We drowned that money somewhere. People are making arguments, people are missing. I remember a time when employers forced employees to go to sick leave because there were no contracts. And they were happy when the state paid for them so they wouldn't have to pay. And it's been such a long time. And that's when businessmen didn't seem to fight back from using the state. So let's say this always has the two coins, that there are good employers and bad employees who abuse. Yes, they are. But they don't make decisions. I can't go to my employer and tell him, oh, my head hurts, I'm going home. In the meantime, there's this one interrelationship that no one here has said a half word to. They're doctors. Even a doctor determines whether I'm sick or not. The doctor's writing me a sick leave so I can be home with the disease. And you accept that doctors are irresponsible, unlegal, subject to anyone who comes? He's just gonna send him home? Then let's not heal. Then we don't need doctors, let's face it, and all the people who talked about medicine and the point of medicine here were talking and beating up empty straw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u38	Mr Pávek will be speaking in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, during the time I came forward and got to the floor, almost everything has been said regarding the arguments for and against. I would like to describe the discussion on the Economic Committee, which I am a member of and which I have had the opportunity to participate in. In the course of the hearing, practically all pros and cons were considered. And if anyone thinks that the economic committee is primarily on the side of employers and entrepreneurs, that's not a mission. The task of the Economic Committee is undoubtedly to supervise the economy of that country. Of course, this includes a balance between the needs of employees and the needs of employers. I'm always trying to keep the material side of things here in my work and not slip into ankle-kicking and ideological stretching. But in this case, it's really not easy. We were all witnesses when, following the decline in the preferences of social democracy, its representatives came forward with this proposal to abolish the time of the Karenary and hoped that they would simply earn political points on it with the voters. This was also reflected in the meeting of the Economic Committee, when my colleague Valachová, who, through you, was sitting there, said it, left with a clear position, except for the Communists, to be absolutely precise, so she was just smiling because she knew that she would put it into the coalition negotiations for the support of the government, and thus the debate here will have a breeding ground and we will lead it. I am personally convinced that the abolition of the Karen age is an entirely undesirable phenomenon at a time when no one calls for it. The system, I'm not saying it's perfect, but the system works. We're really having trouble getting people as employees into those firms, into the fabric, into the job. So there's only one sector overflowing here, where there's a bubble of excess workers, so there's the authorities and the state administration. Otherwise, there's a shortage of people everywhere. And the system just works. All the benefits that employers already offer to employees have been mentioned here. It has never been as good as it is now in the history of the modern-day position of employees to negotiate with employers. So I say for the Mayors and Independents Club, we can't support the abolition of the Karen's period. We will vote unambiguously against this. And I call you, according to your knowledge and conscience, to the same. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u40	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Svoboda will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to address my colleague Luzar through you. You know, that's exactly the problem with the Karen age. When a doctor comes in and says a large enough sum of troubles he has, you can't tell him you're healthy. You need to examine him, and if he's given it well, the examination will be for incompetence. [[unintelligible]] And it takes exactly a week to tell him: go to work, incompetence ends because it turns out your disease doesn't exist. Believe me, I know very well, I have a lot of experience with this. And I also know that at the moment it has changed against the way it was before. We've really had a lot of these week's incompetences, too. And the exams are expensive for everything. [[12.30 hours]] And then let me make a second remark. If the coalition has a problem with any law, I, as an opposition MP, look at it with complete amazement. Why are you presenting this? Why don't you pull it back and make a deal with each other, how will you enforce it? You've got most of it! Have a good day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u42	Thank you. Mr Luzar and his factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me respond by your means to the words of the honourable colleague here. Yes, it is. The question is, here's what we're talking about: it's repeatable blackouts. If I come to you once every ten years, and I give you the summary, the package of my diseases, and you send me away for a week, that's not abuse of the system, even if I finally come out of it, that I'm healthy. I have a legitimate concern. And if I come to you every month with these demands, you'll be interested to know that I'm probably a holosuite and that I may have a hypochondric problem before I'm sick, and you won't give me the sick person. Besides, there's a work doctor here. This means that large companies have their own doctors who perform for them, for their employees, health services, and with them the suspicion that abuse is taking place is obvious. And the employer knows how many people who have a difficult relationship to work and abuse this system are in their condition, and he is able to take measures to prevent this from happening. So maybe it's also necessary for those doctors to think about their responsibility to not only the patient, but also the society they approach, not to give everyone an automatic illness, especially to me off the hook and I don't have any problems with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u44	Thank you. Mr Svoboda will respond with a factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u45	Thank you. Let me also respond to my colleague Luzar through you. Yeah, that's the problem, you don't understand that thing at all. A doctor must never think anyone's a simulator. The doctor needs to know. It's just because you get a holosuite five times and she's having a real heart attack the sixth time. So it's not about whether the doctor is responsible or not. He's responsible because he always does the exam. He can never pretend to know anything. You can't do that in medicine. Because she doesn't have a prescription for medicine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u46	Thank you. We are continuing the general debate. Mrs Valachová will speak, after which Mr Kupka will speak. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will finish this issue of social dialogue, as I did not finish it in my point of fact, and so I will be back by 2008. Jaroslav Zavadil on the social committee, i.e. as a memorial to the other party, whose word has not yet been spoken here, i.e. the workers' trade unions, made it clear on the social committee that the cancellation of sickness payments from the first day was not after a mutual agreement in the context of social dialogue. The employees' party never agreed to it. And I feel obliged to say so, if we are losing our social dialogue. Again, the proposal, as it is presented, is based on the nearest approach of employees and employers they have been able to make over the last five years. It was an approach to tripartite negotiations in 2016. That's how it's described. Second thing. And I am really sorry that the economic committee, precisely because its main task is to monitor overall economic condition and overall impacts, that is, macroimpacts, not just reservations that may arise within microeconomics and individual employers and sectors, because those impacts can be different, so from the perspective of the macroimpacts, and I admit that I will be very much involved in further discussions in the bodies of the House, that is, also for the Economic Committee to be discussed at the Economic Committee whether, at the time of the change of the system in 2008, when part of the cost is actually passed on to employers in the first 14 days of the disease, and only then it comes to the burden of the state from the point of view of illness, the workforce inability of employees, so whether this change, which was then compensated by a reduction of 0.1 percent of insurance, means 11 billion at the 2008 prices at the time. CZK, at current prices it is 14 billion. CZK, if it is actually consumed as part of costs. Because the only relevant measurement took place in 2008 and there against compensation of 11 billion. the relevant measurement of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs was the final amount of 4 billion. I'd be happy to discuss this matter with the Economic Committee. Personally, I believe that, in compensation through the parliamentary proposal of coalition supported, another 3.5 billion. compensation from the macroeconomic point of view, if we are talking purely about compensation, it is not unfair and there is no major problem. What I think needs to be discussed, too, and I have never denied it, I am not so stupid that the current state of our economy, of course, in the case of, and I note, improving any conditions of workers who have costs, has a particularly difficult impact on some sectors, and especially small, small employers, small entrepreneurs. But ladies and gentlemen, that's completely different. We're not gonna figure that out if we're gonna go after each other's necks, if we're gonna re-establish or re-establish sick leave. We have to deal with this in a completely different way. And then it was just a note. I do not want to delay the general debate and I will actually be prepared for the debate on both the Economic Committee and the Social Committee. A colleague of Mr Pávek through the President. He said that I was smiling at the exit from the Economic Committee, although we had a bit of a hit, the recommendation to reject this proposal, was aware of how I would successfully apply it in coalition negotiations. So I would just like to point out that at that time the coalition negotiations and the programming declarations were long overdue and, of course, everything that is in the programming statement and in the coalition agreement is an agreement between two parties, the ANO and the ČSSD movement. And this agreement and its implementation are, of course, perfectly in the direction of the voters, both the YES and the ČSSD movement. And I would really like it if, in the framework of both plenary and committees, we would monitor the quality of the conditions of the staff in all the workplaces. I really believe that we have been paying half-wage sickness since the first day of the illness - to figure out what the amount is, because the assessment base is reduced by 10 percent, so it's 90 percent, then 60 percent of 90 percent, so we're actually talking about half-wage. It's not for a particularly big cheer. It's a half-income blackout. I would just like to point out that the famous investigation, the effectiveness of the current quarantine period, means that the sick do not have three days of illness paid off, so we do not save on those who possibly abuse the system through the President towards Pavel Juříček, as he is concerned about the short-term three-day work incapacity. Look over there, over the last ten years, the number of people in principle hasn't changed, it's plus minus the same. It has changed and changed especially after the introduction of the period of quarantine towards those who are sick for ten, fourteen days. That means, that's the standard job incompetence. And certainly through the President, Mr Svoboda will also convince me that he could not put his hand to the fact that everyone who is sick for a week or ten days is some kind of simulator. Of course, most people are really sick. And it would be fair to admit that we're saving up on those really sick people just because we won't pay them any payback for three days. That's all. And the point of the Karenary period, when the right-wing governments were introduced, was that these three days did not pay them well, because every employee can prepare for the disease from his or her wages, salary and so on, and these three days cope with the economic outage of income in good shape, I mean, of course, economical, and it will not affect him. [[12.40 hours]] I say that at this point, as I said at first reading, most of the employees we're talking about earning around 20 grand, and to re-realize the sums, if the House introduces the payment of sickness from the first day of the disease, really to these people, most of it, we'll improve, if they're sick for a month, their income at the blackout, because they're sick, about a thousand-coron, so that we have a real idea of what we're talking about here. I think that employees deserve to be sick at a time of illness, to be at home, to have that opportunity, no one should be forced in 2018 in the Czech Republic to go to work because of fear of a loss of income. I would like to live in such a Czech Republic, and this does not mean that I do not want to address the problems of employers and the competition of the global market.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u48	Thank you. The factual remarks made by President Stanjura and Mr Mašek will follow. President Stanjura has the floor with his point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u49	Thank you. Just two comments on Mrs Valachová's performance. She always says: we're two coalition partners. Okay, three, you always forget and chastise the communists. Without them, you wouldn't have claimed anything in principle. So we will see who will vote in favour of the budget, we know who gave confidence to the government, but, as Vojtěch Filip said, with the key material, the State Final Account for 2017, the Members either abstained or opposed and thus proved their opposition. So don't be ashamed of it, you're a semi-communist government because the communists support you, and there's no need to confuse the public that two sides rule. That doesn't even come out numerically in the Chamber of Deputies. In the government, yes, but it doesn't work out in the Chamber of Deputies. Secondly, our dear left often argues the situation with our European partners within the European Union. I'm not saying at this point. At this point, it is not appropriate for you, so once again you are silent about it as the Communist participation in the formation of the majority in the Chamber of Deputies. I look forward to the debate with you and we will discuss the country to the west of us, where the time of the card is and where it is not and whether it is modern and successful countries or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u50	Thank you. Mr Mašek's point of fact. Mr Mašek has the floor with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course, I respect the coalition agreement and the programming declaration on the subject of the Karen period. But I have a bit of a problem as a doctor who exposes incompetents with one thing. This is what Mr Svoboda, through Mr President, said that we have to trust patients. That's the nature of our actions. And now I get to the point. I do not doubt that it is possible and is probably good for patients to pay for incapacity from the first day of incapacity for work, but it is a question of incapacity for work. At present, incapacity for work and often practiced can be postponed up to three days before a visit by a medical practitioner who exposes himself to disability. This is a problem and here I think it would be better and fair for the inability to work to arise on the day of the visit of the practical doctor, virtually. the day of the visit of an emergency or an outpatient specialist who would comment on the occurrence of incapacity for work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u52	Thank you. Mr Bláha will speak with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u53	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond to the thousand crowns. If it was said that the Republic average was 20,000, three days is 1,800 crowns. The 60 percent is 1,800, because 20 thousand divided by 20 days worked is a thousand crowns per day, times 3, times 60 percent is 1,800 crowns that the employee gets. Believe me, no employer is involved in the money. He's worried about the fact that he's totally gonna break down the collective that's in the workplace because those who abuse it are making incredible tension in every company. And it grows more and more as we reward people for not working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-004-007.u54	Thank you. Since it's 12:44 p.m., and at 12:45 p.m., we're going to be dealing with election points, so I'm going to interrupt this point and we're going to proceed to fixed points 135, 136 and 137. First of all, let's look at the point.
