ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-015-015.u1	15. Government bill amending Act No. 280/2009 Sb., Tax Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 47/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it has been proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-015-015.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce the proposal for an amendment to the Tax Code and some other laws which are being transposed into the legal order of the Czech Republic by the so-called Directive DAC 5 or the amendment to the European Directive on Administrative Cooperation in the Field of Taxation. This Directive requires tax administrators to have access to the collected data collected today by banks and other financial institutions and a number of other economic operators in the fight against money laundering. According to Directive DAC 5, these data are to be used by the tax administrator in the framework of the exchange of information in international cooperation in tax administration. In addition, the draft law provides for the collection and use of these data also within the domestic tax administration. The reason is not to try not to make the difference between the domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding access to the information needed to avoid tax evasion. I consider it very necessary to stress that the proposal does not create any new supervisory powers for tax administrators and puts them in the position of bodies that should address the issue of combating money laundering. The proposal merely implements the requirement of a European directive for the tax administrator to have the opportunity to obtain data that obliged persons collect on their clients on the basis of selected articles of the directive governing the fight against money laundering. The tax administrator has access to the vast majority of these data already under current legislation. The proposed change can thus be seen as a complement to existing powers. It will continue to apply that the tax administrator can obtain only those data which it cannot obtain from the records and registers to which it has access, typically central accounting, a classic example, or from other public authorities. In addition, it may only require the information necessary for the administration of the taxes which the obliged entities have actually. The data will be provided at the request of the tax administrator, not in the form of an automatic notification obligation. No one will be forced to collect anything about their clients beyond current obligations. The topic discussed in the legislative process was the impact of the bill on professionals involved, inter alia, in the provision of legal aid, i.e. lawyers, tax advisors, notaries, auditors and bailouts. These persons are also covered by Directive DAC 5 and cannot therefore be excluded from the draft law. However, the impact of the directive is limited only to those persons who do not have the character of legal aid. I would particularly like to emphasise that. Moreover, in the case of these professions, the draft law did not extend the impact of Directive DAC 5 on domestic tax administration and thus limited itself to the necessary fulfilment of the requirement of European legislation. The effect of the bill on the profession is therefore very limited and cannot lead to a threat by the Constitution of Guaranteed Law on Legal Assistance. In the light of the delays caused by the elections to the Chamber of Deputies last year in particular, the transposition period of Directive DAC 5 was already exceeded, which expired on 31 December 2017. It is therefore recommended in the proposal that the Chamber of Deputies agree to the draft law in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-015-015.u3	Thank you, too. And now Prime Minister Bartošek has declared himself to me with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-015-015.u4	Thank you for the floor. While I understand what the Minister of Finance has said here, we consider the whole issue to be so complex that we think it is a shame to rush the whole process, and we recommend that we discuss it properly in three readings, so on behalf of two KDU-ČSL and ODS clubs we carry out the veto on Section 90.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-015-015.u5	Thank you for the veto. The rapporteur should therefore now take the floor. Mr Jan Volný was originally designated as rapporteur, but he is excused. I have here a proposal for Mr Karel Rais to become rapporteur. We will vote on this matter. I'll call the MPs. Initiating serial number 67 vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 67, 132 Members were enrolled, 116 voted in favour, against no one. The decision has been taken, so the rapporteur is Mr Karel Rais, and I am asking him to take the floor of the rapporteur for first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-015-015.u6	Have a good day, everyone. I don't want to repeat myself, because if you've listened carefully, I think we've heard the essentials here from the Minister's mouth. This is essentially the implementation of the Council of Europe Directive. It is about allowing tax authorities access to information in the fight against money laundering. This basically allows tax administrators access to selected data, including data on how to collect such data obtained by obliged persons on the basis of legislation to combat the legalisation of proceeds from crime and terrorist financing. The secretary said some important things. So we heard a veto that was said forward. It would be quite useful for us to shorten the discussion of this law, but that is not the rapporteur's obligation, but rather the Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-015-015.u7	Thank you for the opening words and I am opening up a general debate in which I have some applications, but before that I would like to read Mr Okamura's apology, which apologizes to us for working reasons until the end of the negotiations. I now have Mr Feri with a written application for the debate first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-015-015.u8	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, the veto has already been mentioned here, but I would like to add an objection to the TOP 09 parliamentary club to discuss this proposal in accordance with § 90 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). When you look at the relevant House press No. 47, namely and best seen in the difference table in the very conclusion, so it is not some small matter. These are quite important things that actually fall into the obligation of confidentiality, e.g. in the order of execution, the law of attorney, in the notary order atp. I think that this is really something that we should be discussing in a very standard way, and I think we can do it in committee, virtually. on committees, in some way appropriately advise. Let us pay due attention to this, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-015-015.u9	Thank you, too. Now I have some factual remarks from earlier that I can deal with right now. I would like to ask if Mr Plzák's factual remark is valid? No. And Mr. Excellent? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-015-015.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I wanted to join what my colleague Feri said earlier. I also don't think it's just a technical standard. I respect, of course, that there is some transposition, but I think there is a disproportionate increase in the powers of the Financial Administration, and it would be appropriate to discuss the thing that moves on the edge, as has been said here, in standard negotiations, at three readings, and it is also within the constitutionally legal committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-015-015.u11	I, too, thank you, and now please, with Mr Ferjenčík's application for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-015-015.u12	Thank you for the floor. The Pirates Club also joins the objection to this Paragraph 90 of the Rules of Procedure. We also think that the issue of breaking banking secrets and confidentiality of notaries, executors etc. deserves a thorough discussion in this House. This law is certainly not just some blind transposition, but the Czech Republic has some boundaries in which it can move in the implementation of this directive, and I think it is necessary to discuss this in committees. Above all, it is necessary to discuss what control mechanisms will be in relation to the tax administrator, because those powers are large and given that they will actually be third parties who will provide the information, when the bank will simply communicate information about its clients, so, of course, the bank is not very motivated to deny the information even if it feels that the tax administration is acting contrary to the resolutions mentioned by the Minister. I think it's very important that we discuss this properly, and please don't cut the deadline, so it's time. I know we're late, but this House didn't cause the delay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-015-015.u13	I thank you, and now I have an application for Mr Benda's debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-015-015.u14	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I think we can break up in peace, because I would say that I will speak for eight minutes. This is not a simple, trivial transposition at all, as we are being presented here. It's all going to run so fast, nothing's going on, but that's how Europe agreed on it. Firstly, I would have one question for the Minister when we get to her answer, how many European countries really already have this directive transposed into their legal order. According to my information, it's far from all of them. The second problem, however, which I consider to be much more fundamental. The DAT 5 Directive aims to exchange the information they have from each country's administrations. This directive is intended to facilitate individual administrative authorities of countries to provide information to each other, whereas, as unfortunately, it is often in the Czech environment, here is the so-called. The transposition of this directive was used to do something completely different. This is where the administrative authorities are going to start collecting information from third parties that they do not yet have or that is not easy enough to reach, and that is a huge difference. This is not information held by the administrative authorities and should be exchanged with foreign authorities, but it is information that the administrative authorities do not have in many cases, and should suddenly have access to them. Now I am not talking at all - and we are going to deal with this, and I will, of course, then propose that this bill be discussed also in the constitutional law committee - not to mention the cases in which there is a breach of confidentiality, the extent to which there is a breach of confidentiality and whether what the Minister said here is really secure where the lawyers are. I'm not so sure about that. And that concerns both attorney's confidentiality and banking secrets and other things. But the main problem is that we have some special authority to protect this country from money laundering, fighting terrorism and money laundering, which has the option, but only for these purposes, to demand from banks, and even entities that are bound by secrecy, relatively fundamental breakthroughs in banking secrecy, legal secrecy, notary secrecy and so on, but it is intended to serve to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. There we are all prepared to respect such fundamental breaching, we also have established a special body of the Chamber of Deputies, which has the task of controlling the Financial Analytical Service of the Ministry of Finance. This Financial Analysis Unit of the Ministry of Finance is separated from the Ministry of Finance, does not fall under the Minister of Finance, as we know, and reports to the Chamber of Deputies, in which cases he requested information about bank accounts, about depositing money, about who is the owner of the company, etc. [[Office]] But all of this is intended to serve against the most serious crimes committed either in the Czech Republic or in the territory of the European Union. I understand that we can and should share this information with administrations of similar levels in other countries. But the transaction attempt that's going on here, at least as I read it, but as I'm pointed out from the outside, it says something completely different. Every tax office, every tax administrator, has the opportunity to find out this extremely sensitive information if requested from abroad. By the way, there's nothing more complicated, or there's nothing simpler, I'd say, than to ask some financial authority abroad to ask me. And the original proposal was even so that it was for the general administration of taxes that this breach was happening. There is a breach for each tax administrator. Every Trashcan administrator and municipal fee has the opportunity to suddenly start asking who owns the company, who owns the account, what movements have been made on the account, etc., just because it looks like it's for some cooperation with abroad. I think it's extremely dangerous. I think that we really need to think in a fundamental way about whether this directive is being transposed the way we want it to be, or whether it is one of the usual attempts again. And now I hardly blame the Minister, I know that they are often officials from subordinate floors who like to write such: we would like to do everything, and when we can apply the European directive that commands us, we will use it to have the simplest approach possible. [[19.00 hours]] I see this approach as very dangerous. I consider it essential that we maintain that line where special mechanisms are to be determined for investigating the most serious crimes or even crimes against, say, public morality, such as the financing of terrorism, such as money laundering. But I can't use these special mechanisms to collect fees from dogs or to find out if the subject paid me correctly or incorrectly. Not even in this connection, that we are pretending that this is only for foreign cooperation, because frankly, this foreign cooperation can also be ordered. I think we should order this bill, apart from the budget committee, and I do not suggest that we be the guarantee committee, because I consider the argument about the guarantee committee to be unnecessary. But I suggest we order this bill, in addition to that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-015-015.u15	I dare to interrupt you, Mr. Ambassador. It's 7:00 p.m. and there was no decision that we would continue after 7:00 p.m. So it looks like we're gonna cut the point for today, and we're gonna do this another time. Probably tomorrow. So let me remind everyone that tomorrow starts at 9:00. Points 19, 20 and 21, which are international treaties, are firmly on the agenda. There are no written interpelations at the moment. But if you're gonna do oral questioning, it'll be possible again, I suppose there'll be a worker here until 11:00. At 11.30 there will be a draw of the order of oral interpelations in the presence of verifiers and with oral interpelations we will continue at 14.30. We start tomorrow at 9:00, one more time for everyone's safety. Thank you for today and good night.
