ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-009-020.u1	20. Proposal by Members of Stanislav Grospič, Hana Aulická Jírovcová and Pavel Kováčik on the issue of the law on legal aid and on the amendment of certain related laws (Law on Legal Assistance) /German press 152/ - first reading We received the Government's position as Parliamentary Press 152/1. I prosit that Mr Stanislav Grospič present the proposal for the appellants. Please, Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-009-020.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear government, dear colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to come before you with the defence of the bill on legal aid and on the amendment of certain related laws, i.e. the law on legal aid. This is a bill with which we presented ourselves as members of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia during the last parliamentary term. And we are aware that at that time part of this legislation was already reflected in some other legislation, in particular in the Act on -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-009-020.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I ask that we hear the bill, as Mr Grospič brings it to us here! Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-009-020.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. - especially the Law of Advocates. Nevertheless, we are aware that the current legislation is considerably fragmented. So what are we following by submitting this bill? First of all, that law would lay down the conditions for the provision of legal aid as well as the conditions for the determination of the State's obligation to cover the costs of legal representation and the scope of that obligation. Secondly, that this law would not affect specific legislation which provides for the provision of legal aid in a way other than that provided for in that law. According to this law, everyone, under the conditions laid down in this law, would have the right to legal aid in proceedings before a general court, including administrative justice, in an appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court, on a constitutional complaint before the Constitutional Court, before other bodies which are then mentioned in the text of this law. Furthermore, the person who cannot receive other legal assistance, in particular the granting of legal advice or the filing of an instrument, is entitled to ask the Czech Bar Association to appoint a lawyer to provide him with legal services under the special legislation. We understand legal aid under this law and this is how we define legal services provided by lawyers under special legislation. The costs of such legal assistance provided under this law would then be paid by the State if it were not able to pay itself or in whole or in part under the conditions and in the manner laid down by this law. We conclude that the right to legal aid is based directly on the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms has every right to legal assistance in proceedings before the courts, other public authorities or public authorities, from the very beginning of the procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The third sentence of the Third Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms provides for the law in which the accused person has the right to free assistance in criminal proceedings. The legislation in force allows for the provision of free legal aid in principle and is also implemented in practice. However, the legislation in force is fragmented, not always uniform, and provides disproportionately wide discretion to the authorities to decide on the granting of free legal aid, i.e. the defence. I don't want to read all these standards here right now, but there's a total of 16. That's what our bill is based on. I just want to give a few basic examples. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). 37 provides for the right of everyone to legal assistance in proceedings before the courts, other public authorities or public authorities, from the outset of the proceedings, of equality between all parties during the proceedings. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 40 provides for the right of the accused to be given time and opportunity to prepare the defence and to defend himself or through a lawyer. If the accused does not choose a lawyer, although he must have one under the law, he will be appointed a court. Furthermore, in the same article, the Charter provides that the law provides in which cases the defendant has the right to free assistance from the lawyer. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 42 then states, among other things, that foreigners enjoy human rights and fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the Charter in the Czech Republic, unless they are specifically granted to citizens. The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms shall then be amended as follows: 6 states that everyone has the right to have his matter dealt with in a fair, public and impartial manner within a reasonable period by an independent and impartial court established by a law which decides on his or her civil rights or obligations or the right of any criminal charge against him. The judgment must be declared publicly, but the press and the public may be excluded either during the whole or part of the process in the interests of morality, public order or national security in a democratic society, or when the interests of minors or the protection of the private life of participants or, to the extent deemed necessary by the court, if, in the light of special circumstances, the public's proceedings could be detrimental to the interests of justice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-009-020.u5	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Once again, I call on all Members present to create a dignified atmosphere for discussing this proposal. We are in a situation where I, too, no longer hear what the plaintiff is speaking here. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-009-020.u6	Thank you. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 6 The Convention provides for the minimum rights of anyone charged with a criminal offence. This is linked to the Convention on the Legal Status of Refugees, which is set out in Article 4 (1) (a) of the Convention on the Status of Refugees. 16 The refugee has free access to all courts in the territory of the Contracting States and has a right in the territory of the Contracting State in which he has permanent residence to the same treatment as his own citizens of that State in matters of free access to the courts, including legal assistance and removal from the cutio judicatum solvi, i.e. the guarantee that the sentenced person will fulfil what he has been sentenced to. In other Contracting States than where the refugee is permanently established, he must use the same treatment in the cases referred to in paragraph 2 of this Convention as nationals of the country concerned. There is also the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. There is a European Convention on the transmission of legal aid applications. And there are a number of other special regulations laid down in our legal order, as I have already said, in a total of 16 legislation. Explanation of the necessity of the proposed legislation. It then assumes that the bill should regulate the right to legal aid, free legal aid and amend the laws already governing the regulation and legal aid so that their provisions do not comply with the new law. In view of the specificity of the criminal proceedings, there will be no need for defences in criminal proceedings and for agents in criminal proceedings. This is an exception which is not included in this bill. The purpose of the law should be to establish a system for the provision of legal aid and to ensure its provision to the extent provided for by the law, i.e. free legal aid should not be granted to natural persons and legal persons who, as a result of material need, cannot use legal services to properly exercise and protect their rights and who will also demonstrate their property conditions justifying the provision of legal aid at the expense of the State. [[He said "short-term."]] [[It's still busy in the hall.]] This law is also linked to a certain identification of the risks associated with inactivity. Inaction in this case would mean maintaining the existing legislation ensuring legal aid and free legal assistance by individual legislation. This situation currently leads to non-systematic legal assistance, making it difficult and obscure for applicants, not laying down sufficiently transparent rules, there is no single legal aid system, which complicates undesirable different decision-making practices in this area. There is also no central overview of the provision of free legal aid, there is no provision of legal assistance in arbitration. [[15.30 hours]] The projected economic and financial impact of the proposed legislation on the state budget and other public budgets is based on the current state of the free legal assistance provided in the legal proceedings and is prepared so as not to require an increase in the cost of the state budget and other public administration budgets or the need for additional staff paid out of these budgets. The assessment of the impact on the state budget is mainly based on the fact that current legislation also allows free legal aid to be granted in proceedings before courts, which is now covered by budgetary resources. In principle, the proposed regulation does not extend access - with the exception of arbitration - to free legal aid paid by the State, but mainly monitors the unification of the applicable arrangements and the wider awareness of the participants' possibilities of providing it. On the other hand, however, it is also not possible to estimate the possible increase in applications for free legal aid and the resulting many other financial effects. If we would like to assess further impacts, in particular social impacts, including impacts on specific population groups, in particular people with social weaknesses, people with disabilities and national minorities, they are clearly positive thanks to the unification of the existing fragmented regulation and the setting of an instructional obligation. The proposed regulation therefore does not deteriorate the position of men and women and does not interfere in any way with the protection of privacy and personal data. It does not create corruption risks and does not affect the business environment. [[Noise in the hall.]] I would like to conclude by saying that we are aware of the Government's position, which is not positive for the proposed amendment to the bill. But I would like to ask you that this House show sufficient will to release this law for second reading, so that we can develop a broad debate as in the last parliamentary term and find a consensus that would lead to the unification of the provision of the necessary legal assistance so that, despite the differences and specificity of the criminal proceedings, it is understandable, unambiguous and fully fulfilling its purpose in relation to citizens who urgently need it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-009-020.u7	I thank Mr Grospič as a representative of the appellant. The rapporteur for first reading is Mrs Helena Válková. I ask her now to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-009-020.u8	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, my role will not be easy because, on the one hand, the standard is needed, we have not fulfilled our promise in the last parliamentary term that we will introduce free legal aid that should serve persons whose... It's called material need, they just don't have the funds to secure their defense in the professional quality they need. So from this point of view the purpose of the standard and its concept - yes. Definitely what the petitioner's representative said is true, because the current legislation is fragmented, it is incomplete and, of course, it is far from complete, and now, after the amendments he has mentioned, it is not enough, and I think it is necessary to do so. On the other hand, there are things that can be removed at second reading when you read in the explanatory memorandum that free legal aid is to be provided to legal and natural persons and explicitly, I suspect that this is in Section 5... No, in Section 5 letter. (f) on the contrary, it is expressly stated that a legal person should be excluded from providing such assistance to a legal person. So these are little things, even though they have a material character that could be removed at the second reading. What I consider more important is two things. Really openly - and I appreciate it - the update was mentioned here. Through the amendment to the Law on Advocates, there has been an extension of free legal aid and the establishment of new conditions for their provision. And it was mentioned here that this update was taken into account, however, as I must say, it did not appear in the bill submitted. At least she hasn't shown up yet. As rapporteur for you, Members, I would like to know how the Czech Bar Association stands on this form of proposed law. I wonder what position will be taken by the new Minister of Justice, who has not had the opportunity and who will have the task of moving, presenting and defending such a standard in the best possible quality, respectively. support in the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, since I do not wish to propose this standard in the light of some of its defects to reject it, I do not want it to return to the petitioners to recast now, so I would propose a suspension to the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies with the justification that the new Minister of Justice would, with a standard that would certainly form a significant part of its legislation, even if it was not from its pen, or perhaps also if he took the same negative position as the former Minister of Justice, who would represent it to the government, convince the remaining members that he would make a better proposal for himself so that he could get that opportunity. It is one of the standards that will then be or will not be evaluated in connection with its management of the resort, even in the sense that it voted in favour of adopting a standard that is not of good quality. I could not raise my hand for this text, as it is presented. However, I would like to leave an opportunity for the new government to consider the proposal, perhaps. has not changed her mind if the Chamber of Deputies, of course, considers that this procedure is correct. I am also interested in the opinion of representatives of the Czech Bar Association. In case you come to the conclusion that this procedure is not optimal according to your conviction, I would suggest that you return the standard to recast. But I say, as a first step, I would still give this very necessary legislation a chance. And I'm interested in the opinion of the two representatives, both the state of law and the new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-009-020.u9	Madame, I understand you've filed a procedural motion for interruption to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-009-020.u10	I filed a motion to interrupt until the next meeting. There's not much to deal with here, but there was a new secretary appointed today. The next meeting will be in early September. So the proposal to suspend this standard by the beginning of September, not by next week, of course, but by the next meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-009-020.u11	I just need to point out, for the record, that the next meeting will be held on 11 July, as it was called today. So if you're proposing that this be interrupted by the September meeting, we can vote on it this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-009-020.u12	Thank you for the clarification and correction of my mistake, i.e. until the House meeting, which will take place in September 2018. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-009-020.u13	Yeah, okay. There has been a proposal that we will vote on immediately. I've called the MPs from the lobby. We will vote on the proposal to interrupt this item in the September session of the Chamber of Deputies. [[Some Members are still running into the hall.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 37, 163 Members signed in for 148, there was no opposition. The motion was accepted. This means that we are interrupting this item in the September session of the Chamber of Deputies. I thank the rapporteur, thank you. [[15.40 hours]] Let's move on to the next item in order. Now, let's look at the point.
