ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u1	195. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations Please note that no later than 11 o'clock, applications for oral interviews may be submitted, after which they will be drawn. So, based on the number of entries, we're already in the number we can act on, so I'll continue. We are the first to discuss Mr Jakub Michálek's interpelation on the electronic file, which is the House's press 268, but I believe that this has been interrupted into the presence of the Prime Minister. Mr. Cernohorsky. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u2	Hello. I'd just like to ask - where's someone from the government? I don't see anybody here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u3	I agree with you, and I am interrupting the meeting for ten minutes until 9.15 until at least one member of the government is present so that we can act at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the ten minutes reserved for a break have passed, and I welcome the Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk, who is likely to represent the entire government today, and we will continue to respond to written interpelations. Mr Jakub Michálek's interpellation is therefore the first to be included in the electronic file on Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, which is the House Press 268. This interpelation is interrupted into the presence of the Prime Minister, who is excused today. President Michálek claims priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u5	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out that the written interpelation is from October this year, and since October this year the Prime Minister has not shown up for a written interpelation. October, November, December. The Prime Minister still doesn't go to a written interview in the morning. It doesn't seem normal to me anymore. I'd ask the government majority to do something about it, because it doesn't fit with the control mechanisms that are supposed to work in the House. The government wrote to itself in its programming statement that it would go towards the scrutiny of the Chamber of Deputies, and yet the Prime Minister does not go to written interpelations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u6	Thank you. We're not going to discuss this interpellation because it's interrupted. There is also an interpelation of Mr Vojtěch Munzar on the Financial Administration procedure of the Czech Republic in the investigation of information from the newlywed couple about the wedding reception. It's the House press 285. It's up to Mrs Alena Schillerová, who is also absent. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u7	Thank you. What a surprise! Just to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, let me remind you of what my intervention was about. The question was that I asked whether the Minister really considered it lawful, correct and lawful for the Financial Administration to send a call with the instruction of the fine to the couples of newlyweds to communicate their personal data, their private data to the Financial Administration about the wedding reception. This interpelation was 25. 10th in October interrupted due to the absence of the Minister. On November 1st, you may recall, the secretary was also excused, but she arrived before 11:00, so the interview opened. And the secretary was interrupted in her speech, halfway through her speech. I'm a patient person. As much as I thought the Minister and I could handle this by the end of the year, it's obviously not. However, I think it would be fair to give the Minister an opportunity to finish what she said here. Because it was interrupted in half. That's why I'm making a motion to interrupt the questioning until the Minister's presence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u8	I'm registering the proposal. I ask the Chamber of Deputies to calm down, we will vote. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. We will vote to interrupt this point. I'm not going to sign you off, nor am I going to summon you, because I think there's enough of us here. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of interrupting. Who's against interruption? Thank you. In voting number 75, 92 Members and Members are registered, for 45, against 27, the proposal has not been adopted. We'll continue the interpellation. Chairman Stanjura reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u9	I mean, Vice-President, I'm going to propose to the next House Grémium that we rule out written interpelation by law. The YES movement is making fun of us. He is not willing to answer the written questions of the Members, he does not come here, and when one minister is accidentally lost here, it is a perfectly normal thing to interrupt the question of interpelation in the presence of a particular minister, so the YES movement is heroically opposed. This is how I imagine, as President Michálek has already quoted from the government's programming statement, that they will support the control of the government's parliament. I don't know how we can control them if they don't go to a written interview, and if one gets lost, then nothing. I'm really looking forward to seeing you in opposition, and then you're gonna cry and cry, but it looks like you're totally blowing it off. What are you afraid of? Do you think it's normal for us to have an interview here in the absence of the secretary? We can talk about Secretary Schillerová for two hours now. Talk till 11:00. We're ready. Then what's the use of a written interpelation tool? Totally useless. And that is the position on the opposition of the ANO movement. Now you're pretending to be serious. You would like to debate with the opposition. And when you have the chance, you're just afraid of the debate. Anyway. But if we have written interpelations on this issue, I think we can have a little more serious conversation about hedge orders, because it certainly has something to do with how the Financial Administration works. As I wrote somewhere, I personally will quote myself from Twitter. The infamous Chief of Financial Administration is supposedly leaving at his own request. Lost litigation and the risks of major losses to the state budget remain behind it. The Prime Minister and the Minister thanked him for his excellent work, which is very nice. I'd just like to remind him how he thought. How does a man think like that? I'll remember when he launched a small and small business operation in the Financial Administration. Maybe you've heard it before. Do you know what he called the event? Kombajn. I don't know if Colonel Šlachta told him to, or anyone else, but I don't think that's a normal approach to our small and small businessmen. And in this interview, we were supposed to talk about whether it was normal for the Financial Administration to request a list of actual marriages, and then check out individual wedding receptions, whether they had it at the restaurant or at home, how much they spent, what they drank there, whether they had an invoice, whether they paid with a card or an account. God forbid that the father of the bride should pay for it, it's so suspicious, we've never heard that none of the wedding guests, the groom, the bride, didn't pay for it. And if you're gonna talk about it, you're gonna make a decision and you're gonna vote no, we're not gonna interrupt the interview. Well, that's it. I think that a normal self-confident parliament would interrupt today's interpelation, accept a sharp resolution to the government that the government despises us, that ministers don't bother coming here - with the honourable exception of the Minister, luckily he'll be responding to my interpelation, so that's okay, now I'm not gonna drag it in, we'll get to that in a minute. [[Tank]] [[9.20 hours]] It's not normal for those who think it's normal. When I was here in my first term of office, and we were in the government, and when the minister didn't come to the committee, we interrupted the committee, expelled the Deputys, and said that we would discuss that point when the minister was present. Do you think that this term would pass? It didn't. I have experience from the budget committee, and I know how often, or how almost never ministers or ministers go there. I'm not saying it has to be at every point, I'm sure it doesn't. But there are certainly points on which the minister should be present in person, whether on the committee or on written interviews. We had a budget debate here last night at 9:00 p.m., you thought it was normal. And where is Secretary Schillerová? Excuse me? I don't know if she's sorry for business reasons, but her job today is to answer a written interview. We all have it in the invitation ten days in advance, we all know the list of the interpellings. But ministers just don't give a shit. And we can pull all the stats we want. The most common answer is: you did it, too. So that's what the neighbor broke the window, so I'm gonna break it too. Whatever, we're 50-50. But I don't remember at least those who were involved in the written interpelations didn't come to the written interpelations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u10	Thank you. Before we proceed to any further applications for debate and factual comment, I have some apologies. We are apologized to Minister Klára Dostálová from 9 to 11 o'clock for reasons of work, Mrs Balaštíková from the whole day of the Tomáš for Petříček of work, for the whole day of the hearing, which is an international business trip, Mrs Dražilová from 9.00 to 10.15 for reasons of work, Mr Kolařík from 9 to 12 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Bláha from the whole day of the hearing for reasons of employment, Minister Kněžínek from 14.30, Mr Pour from 9 to 10 o'clock for reasons of doctor's visit, Mr Zlesák between 14.30 and 19.00 for reasons of discussion, Mr Svoboda from 6 and 7 for two days on account of foreign travel. And that's all at the moment. Now please, with Mr Kováčik's factual comment, then President Michálek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. Not that I want to stand up for absent ministers and prime minister. I must say that President Stanjura is right. But I feel like I'm experiencing some sort of déjà vu here. When the governments were past, and some of them were led by the ODS, and here I criticized the ministers for not being present at the House's meeting and therefore making parliamentary control of the government impossible, and that they were not present at the intercessions, and therefore the interpelations could not have taken place, and that they despised Parliament and that it and that it did. Yes, indeed, I have a faint memory, but sometimes it works, so I just think it's good to remind you that nothing new under the sun. That even the ODS ministers were not such frequent guests during the interpelations. Even today, we would like them to be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u12	Thank you for your time, and now President Michálek has reported to me, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u13	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. A serious colleague, ladies and gentlemen, has come to my attention with an article that I have now noted in the media that President Vondráček plans to reward Members according to their participation. Well, if ministers were to judge themselves by their participation in negotiations, such as written interpelations, where their participation is necessary, I fear they would cry over earnings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u14	Thank you. These are all the applications I have at the moment, so Mr Munzar will continue. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u15	Thank you. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. For starters, I can't forgive myself for saying that this is very disrespectful to our time, to all of us. Because we are all prepared for interpelation here, and it is constantly blocked either by the absence of the minister or by the fear of members of the ANO movement that the Minister would happen to respond. So thank you for this collegial approach. I think you didn't do the secretary a good service, more of a bear, because I think it would be particularly solid for her to finish her thoughts here, and she didn't make it because she was interrupted in the middle. I was the one who said that in the beginning. I told you that's why I'm proposing an interruption. Unfortunately, you didn't allow this to happen to your secretary. I'm going to say just a few questions here at the beginning that I'm going to repeat because I'm based on the Minister's written reply and I'm also based on the Steno Protocol from the part of the answer that I've studied in detail. [[9.30 hours]] Actually, the secretary here answered something other than what I asked. In her speech, the Minister also devoted herself to the fact that she cannot enter the living cause. But I absolutely didn't ask her. I didn't ask for specific details of one case, such as a restaurant, such as suspicion and the like. I asked the secretary if she seemed legally and legally okay, The Financial Administration calls on the wedding guests under the threat of a fine to communicate information of a personal nature, that is, whether the Financial Administration really is entitled to know how much they had at the wedding reception of the wedding guests where the wedding feast took place. And unfortunately, the Financial Administration also approached the wedding guests who had a feast at home. Moreover, it is information that has absolutely nothing to do with tax collection. What does it have to do with my tax collection to tell you how many people I had at my wedding? Is that really relevant? I also asked the Minister if he really believes that the wedding guests are obliged under Section 57 of the Tax Code, and I even quoted here a recognised comment by Baxa and the Association of Authors, where the Minister is a co-author, which implies that they are not obliged persons, and whether the Minister considers the procedure to be appropriate. I was expecting a clear answer. Instead, I was taught that the Financial Administration must have a search activity. I do not deny that tax evasion must be combated, but the question is whether the purpose, though godly, justifies the means. The Minister's written and oral reply left me the impression that he is again defending the Financial Administration's procedure, that he is uncritically approaching what happened. And she even surprised me twice. I really thought that in the first written answer, or here, he would say that it was an excess that would not happen again and that he would take such steps that it really would not happen again. Instead, I have only received uncritical words about the Financial Administration procedure, the debacle of the entire Financial Administration procedure. And unfortunately, this uncritical approach and this de facto de facto de facto legitimizes the procedure of the entire Financial Administration, and I am very sorry and terrified. Instead, the secretary said it wasn't a carpet raid on the weddings. And what is the challenge to 95 newlywed couples, even those who had a feast at home? What's that? A request, what did the Financial Administration call it in her press release? A plea under the threat of a fine under the code name challenge? This backpacking is a caller to heaven. It is a disgusting example of abuse of state power and authority. It is a symbol of the aggressive approach of the Financial Administration of recent years to our citizens, when it interprets its instruments and powers very extensively and to the detriment of tax entities. The government should behave appropriately and proportionality in this case is really a mile away. And the non-critical approach of the Finance Minister, the Ministry of Finance's management, the Director of Financial Administration, contributes to legitimizing the entire process. Today even an article on iRozlasu came out, where CFO Janeček defends the entire Financial Administration procedure and considers it correct and legal. And maybe there are reports that Mr. CEO Janeček is leaving at his own request and for a reward, for fulfilling the order that sounded clear, he will be appointed director of the Financial Office in České Budějovice. I wanted to ask the secretary if it was true information. I will repeat here what I said on November 1st at the beginning of my interview, that the nature of state power is its expansion and the task of all democratic politicians is to restrain this state power, to restrain its expansion, to restrain it and to keep it in check, so that it does not feel all-powerful and untouchable. And it is an uncritical approach, an attempt to defend the indefensible, debathing, that is a breeding ground for expansion, and we are witnessing it live from the existing and past leadership of the Ministry of Finance, which approaches uncritically and does not exactly keep the Financial Administration at bay. Not only am I sorry, it scares me that there is support for increasing state power and overuse of powers at the expense of citizens' rights. And I find that very, very alarming for our democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u16	Thank you, too. I understand you're not proposing a resolution? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u17	I would like to propose a resolution, not so much because of the Minister's reply, although it is written in this way under the Rules of Procedure, but I propose that we disagree with the reply under Section 112 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, and I propose that we at least signal the Financial Administration with this dissenting resolution that this has already been over the line. I believe that you will support me across the political spectrum if you also believe that this procedure was over the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u18	Thank you, too. So we're going to vote. There's a check-out request, so I checked you all out. Please log in with your cards again. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. [[The chairman is gonging.]] For those who are coming, I will repeat that we will vote on the House's dissenting position to respond to the Minister's interpelation. Since our numbers have stabilized and there are enough of us, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of disagree. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 76, 74 Members were voted in favour of 42, against 22, and the opinion was adopted. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] That concludes the discussion of this interpelation now. We will move on to another one, which is the interpellation of Mr Leo Luzar on the proposal for amendment of Act No. 98/1987 Coll., on a special contribution to the miners. It's the House press 315. It's an interview with the Minister of Industry and Trade Marta Nováková. I have been informed that the Member is not here, in which case this is no longer an interpelation, so we will move on to the interpelling of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura on the unhappy constructional state of the immovable cultural monument in Opava in the administration of the Silesian Museum in Opava, the Blücherův Palace. It's the House press 323. It's an interpellation to the Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u19	Thank you for the floor. Before I go into more detail about the interpelation and especially the answer, for those who don't know the beautiful Opava. We've got a city landmark area downtown, a lot of beautiful buildings. Around the city monument zone is a ring of parks, which were established by our predecessors in the 18th century on the site of the original walls. And in that center, there are two buildings in their worst condition. They both belong to the state. One belongs to the Czech Post Office, which has been trying to get rid of the object unsuccessfully for some time. And the second, and that's even worse, it's a cultural unwarranted memory that the Silesian Museum, which belongs to the Ministry of Culture, has in its administration. I think there's a call to heaven when a immovable cultural monument in the very centre of the city's monument zone, which belongs to the Ministry of Culture, is in such a state. That is why I have intersected the Minister, who, of course, is in office very briefly and is not responsible for the condition in which the monument is located. However, the key answer to the last question is those answers. There is no timetable for the repair of this immovable property. And that is a matter that should change, and the Minister of Culture has no doubt the competence to do so. There's a depositary in Blücherův's palace today. I must say that all the preparatory work for the reconstruction of the Blücherův Palace took place during the previous leadership of the Silesian Museum of Earth. I do not wish to burden you all with reading the answer in detail, who cares, there is a specific sequence of steps taken by the Silesian Museum in the Minister's reply. It is obvious that the decisive steps took place until 2015. Since then, the question has been stagnating. The key is to build a new depositary, beyond the Razumovský Palace, also in the urban landmark zone, respectively. at the very edge of the city monument zone, because first the collection items have to be moved, and then the Blücherův Palace can be repaired. [[9.40 hours]] Such a long-term excuse was - we can't fix it because it's full of collection items. Therefore, the last director of the Silesian Museum prepared work, studies were carried out, various preparatory work, from the subsidy of the statutory city of Opava, I would like to point out. Minister, we have the most important cultural institutions of our city in the urban landmark zone. We repaired all of them with high loads mainly with the help of European resources, whether it was Silesian Theatre, Municipal House, which was a house owned by Komerční banka, the city bought it out, renovated it, today is called Municipal House. It is another place where cultural events take place, whether it be the House of Petr Bezruč, which is the former seat of the Chamber of Commerce from the first Republic, also renovated from city resources. So it can't be said, virtually. there is a huge difference in access to valuable historical buildings and buildings where cultural life takes place in Opava, a substantial difference from the city of Opava, which invests there over the long term, and today those houses are renovated and really cultural events are taking place as they should, and the state's approach. I must say that I keep reading about the government's investment plan, the exits to the regions to map it, three trillion, three and a half trillion. Here is a particular monument in a secluded state and I would like to ask additional questions to the Minister. Firstly, whether he will personally support the construction of a new depositary, because we will not move without it. That's where the preparatory work was done. I'd invite the minister to Opava. He doesn't have to come with me, but let him take a look at it. Let the leadership of the Silesian Museum also answer why the event has been asleep for four years. The answer that this was approved in 2017 and included in the investment plan, project documentation processing, is very little. I read in the reply that there is currently a competition for an administrator of a public contract to process project documentation. It seems unusual to me that whether the museum or the Ministry of Culture is not able to organize the competition itself, not on suppliers, let's say, 200 million contracts, but we're looking for an administrator for project documentation. I feel like it's just drifting, delaying, delaying, which actually means the building's getting expensive, too. In the construction industry, the prices of construction works have risen sharply over the last period, it is no longer possible to compete for a price lower than the project documentation in the construction industry, not to mention transport constructions. That's where the situation is a little different. I'd like the Minister not to take this interpelation as a criticism, but more like an appeal and a request for help, because it's a real shame to the state. It's mostly written around that building: Go to the other side, go to the other sidewalk, walk around at your own risk. In the very centre of the city monument zone. And this time, it's not some unknown private owner who doesn't care about the memory. In this case, it is the Ministry of Culture and its institutions. I'm not suggesting that you disagree with the answer, rather I appeal to the Minister. We've already talked about this informally. I believe that this will move forward and that the project documentation will be processed first for the construction of a new depositary, because first the collection items must move and then the Blücherův Palace itself will be reconstructed. Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u20	Thank you. Before we continue the debate, I have a note here. For work reasons, Mr. Excellent between 9:00 and 10:00 a.m. Now, please, Minister Staněk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u21	Mr President. Dear Member, thank you for the comment you added to the written interview. I may just, and it's in the answer, I'll fill in a few things you didn't mention, but it's basically not against what you said. Even in 2018, some construction issues are underway. I have the reply that in 2018, roofing was repaired over the northeast wing of the building due to leaking and endangering stored collection items. In 2018, the tender procedure for the public procurement administrator was announced. That's what you said. At the same time, large soil areas are being cleaned out. Unfortunately, what you draw attention to in the case of Opava is not just the case of Opava. It is a case of a number of towns and villages, and I meet today and daily that mayors and mayors draw attention to the unhappy state of sights that are in the city centre. In many cases, they are private-owned monuments. Here we are talking really about a landmark owned by the state. I have already asked and warned the Department of Monument Care to take into account the fact to which the state is able to take care of these monuments in the process of approving and remembering objects. It, and I say it openly, and I say it here too, is a practice that sometimes purposefully, sometimes with a good intention are declared objects as a cultural or national cultural monument, but no one cares what costs must be incurred to put this monument into what is also functional condition. I find it very often that the village in whose cadastral the monument is is not interested in statements. The county isn't interested, it can't use the landmarks, and yet the landmark is declared. We make a comma, declare a memento, let it rot for ten years, then pay a fine, the monument falls, and we do our thing. This is not conservation and conservation. I can assure you - and here's a little contradiction, and I don't want to open it, in one thing. Yesterday, at the second reading of the state budget, it was very often referred to the item which, in the state budget and in the budget of the chapter of the Ministry of Culture, is intended for the regeneration and restoration of cultural monuments. She is quite high, there is over one billion crowns in various chapters for various owners. Very often this item was mentioned that it could be moved from it into a living culture. Unfortunately, I believe that the fact and the form above in this item is necessary, must be maintained, no funds can be withdrawn from it, because there are many projects that are ready, just before the realization, including the Opava project and other things. Of course, I understand that other items should be increased, but there really is no way to reduce funds for the restoration, reconstruction and regeneration of cultural monuments. That's just to clarify. And the answer to what you said. I was in Opava during the election season. We were watching the theater, we were looking at some other things. Unfortunately, the Silesian Museum didn't put me in the program on purpose, but I'm sure I'll be happy to accept the challenge, because Opava is close to me from the point of view of football to see how they do it with the football. I'm sure I'd love to come and see it. The main thing I can assure you is that the issue will not be left out and I will have it as a priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u22	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. I believe that Mr Stanjura is not proposing a resolution. It does not seem to suggest, in which case we will not vote on any proposal. Thank you and the debate, and I am done with this interview. We will move on to another interpelation, which is the interpellation of Mr Jiří Valenta in the case of the war reparations of Germany. It's up to the Prime Minister, Andrej Babiš. This is the House press 324. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Jiří Valenta's interpellation with regard to the war reparations of Germany. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 324. Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As the Prime Minister is not present, I suggest that we interrupt this point into his presence. But before that, I would very much like to explain to you here what my interpellation was about. It concerned war reparations, i.e. compensation paid after the war by a defeated state winning state or victorious states, whether in the form of cash or non-cash, which should be some sort of, and now I think, and we all think, inadequate compensation for the hardships, hardships, sacrifices or damage caused by our enemy. Despite being, as I mentioned, a war reparation which cannot affect all of these damage caused, as I have listed, because, for example, human life cannot be balanced financially, it is a huge disgrace to every political representation, in this case our Czech political representation, when it resigns from this completely justified and even legally recognized compensation in its activities and uses false or irrelevant arguments in addition to its defence. But I will not be dissatisfied with the Prime Minister's response to the interpelation further. I'm divorced on six to seven pages. I would be pleased if you would give me your trust and agree now that this interpellation will cease and continue only in the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u24	Thank you. I have noted your procedural proposal and we will deal with it by voting now. There is therefore a motion to interrupt the discussion of this interpellation into the presence of the Prime Minister. I don't see a checkout application. I see an application for check-out, so I'm gonna check you out. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. Please log in with your cards again. When the number of people present settles... For those who are coming, I repeat, we will vote on the interruption of the interpelation to the presence of the Prime Minister. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of interrupting. Who's against interruption? Thank you. Voting order number 77, 84 Members present, for 49, against 22. The motion was accepted. We're interrupting this interpelation. And we'll move on to another interpellation. This is the interpelation of Mr Jakub Michálek on the issue of the opaque management of ČEZ, especially its investments in Bulgaria. This is the House press 342. It's an interpellation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. I am opening the debate and I assume that Mr Michálek is reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u25	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, dear to the public, we have turned to the Prime Minister with a request to explain to us the somewhat dubious activities of ČEZ in Bulgaria, in which the power plant was purchased under strange circumstances, and to which ČEZ invested 8.6 billion. Kč. Subsequently, the power plant was sold for a dramatically lower amount as a non-functional scrap. And now, if we look at the current information, the power plant is working again. And there's a whole bunch of other connections that you have in that print under the interpelation number 273. We have asked the Prime Minister some specific questions to inform us about the economic advantage of this investment by ČEZ in Bulgaria, who is responsible for putting Dimitar Stefanov in the Supervisory Board of Bulgarian ČEZ in 2009 etc. And unfortunately, we received very simple information from the Prime Minister regarding ČEZ that the Ministry of Finance does not have any information, only those it has from the media and which are in CEZ's annual reports as well as any other shareholder of CEZ. So, supposedly, the Supervisory Board is informed about this, and this information is confidential, so we haven't learned anything. We think that if the government has such information, it has no control over what is happening in ČEZ. That is why I wanted us to discuss this here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. And I am sorry that the Prime Minister is not here again. I think I'll suggest an interruption to the Prime Minister's presence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u26	Thank you for the procedural proposal to be dealt with. I'm seeing the application for check-out again, so I'm gonna check you out. Please log in with your cards again. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. For those who are coming, I will repeat that we will be voting on the interruption of the questioning to the presence of the Prime Minister who is being intersected. Looks like we haven't established the number of entries yet. [[More Members are still coming into the hall.]] I think we've given enough time. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of interrupting. Who's against interruption? Thank you. Voting order number 78, 89 Members of Parliament signed up, for 49, against 25. The motion to interrupt has been accepted. We have also dealt with this interpellation, which is interrupted. And we'll move on. Another is the interpellation of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura on planned investments for 2019 and the 10-year investment plan. It's the House press 343. It's an interpellation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. I'm opening up a debate that I'm... Mr Stanjura is present? [[He's not in the O.R.]] It seems that the Member is not present. In that case, we cannot negotiate any further. I'm interrupting. I'm putting it off. The House will not deliver an opinion on it and will no longer discuss it. Next, we have an interview by Mrs Věra Kovářová on the most dangerous places on the road, this is the House's 344, on the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. I am opening the debate and please the lady.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I asked the Minister to send the sections of roads managed by ŘSD, which are evaluated as the most risky and with the highest accident, and I asked him what they were planning to modify these sections in order to increase safety. Unfortunately, some general information was provided in the reply, and my interpelation was focused on the specific sections and modifications that ŘSD is preparing. That is what I wanted to know from the Minister, which is why I have opposed his response. However, Minister Ťok has already announced and apologized to me yesterday that he will not be at the written interviews today, and I would therefore ask you to suspend this discussion until the Minister is present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u28	Thank you, too. I'm picking up your procedural proposal. We will therefore vote on the suspension of this interpellation into the presence of the Minister. Initiating vote. I said, who's in favor of interrupting? Who's against interruption? In the vote number 79 94 Members and Members were enrolled, for 45, against 25. The motion has not been accepted, so we will continue the discussion. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u29	I will try one more proposal, in order to interrupt the discussion of this interpelation, until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u30	Thank you. That's a different proposition, so I'm going to vote on it. There's an application for check-out, so I'm checking you out. Please log in with your cards again. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. When the number of applicants settles, I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. We will vote again on the interruption of this interpellation, but this time until the next meeting. I think they've all made it. So I'm taking the vote. I'm asking who's in favor of interrupting. Who's against interruption? Thank you. There are 86 Members and Members in the 80 vote, for 78, against 2. The motion has been accepted, so we are interrupting this interpellation until the next meeting. We also have the last interview, and this is Minister Věra Kovářová, sorry, Mrs Věra Kovářová, on the Prime Minister's promise, this is the House Press 345, and this is for Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. I ask for peace and I open the debate. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I interviewed the Minister in writing, and my interpellation was about promises made publicly by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, and I also wanted to hear the amount of promises made so far. Since the answer didn't mention the things I asked for, I made a contradiction. The Minister is not here today, which is why I would once again like to propose the interruption of this interpelation to the time when the Minister is present. I am only to my colleagues from YES through Mr President. I don't understand why the interruption of the last interpellation to the Minister's presence was not supported. The Minister apologized to me, and we agreed to conduct this interpelation at the next written interpelations. What is so wrong with the resolution or the proposal so bad that you can't support such a proposal? Therefore, I ask you once again to support my proposal this time, with the fact that the interpellation should be interrupted into the presence of the Minister. Because then, in this case, the written interpelations are losing meaning. I think these are things that we can talk about here, these are very specific things that we're talking about here. Mr Stanjura spoke of monuments etc. So I don't know why such a thing couldn't be discussed here in plenary. And I hope you support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u32	Thank you, too. I therefore register your procedural proposal to interrupt this interpellation into the presence of the Minister. I see an application for check-out, so I'm gonna check you out. Please log in with your cards again. I'll call my colleagues back to the O.R. Looks like everyone was really close this time. So I'm going to repeat what we're going to vote on. We will vote on the interruption of this interpellation to the presence of the Minister. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of interrupting. Who's against interruption? Thank you. In the 81 vote, 86 Members and Members were enrolled, for 51, against 8, so the proposal was adopted. We're interrupting this last interview. We have dealt with all the written interpelations of this day, so I thank the Minister for representing the government here. And since there is no agreement on the use of the remaining time, I am interrupting the House meeting within 11 hours when we will continue the approved programme. I'll see what I can find. [[A brief silence.]] Unfortunately, I can't find it, so I'm interrupting the House meeting for today's day until 11 o'clock. Have a nice morning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-001-195.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to discuss the points of our meeting. We should now focus on the fixed points - 73, this is the House press 267, and paragraph 189. Then we would discuss the points of the contract block, i.e. second and first reading, and in the afternoon we would engage in oral intervention. I ask if any of the Members have a proposal to amend the programme approved by the 24th meeting? I don't see anyone like that. So let me introduce you to the apologies that came in the meantime. Mrs Richterová apologizes from 11 a.m. to 13 a.m. due to the hearing, and Mr Martin Baxa apologises for today's meeting from 11 a.m. to the end of the day. Initiating item discussion
