ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-008-023.u1	23. Government bill amending Act No. 340/2006 Coll., on the Activities of Occupational Pensions Institutions, as amended / House print 67/ - first reading On behalf of the government, the motion submitted will be given to us by Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, who I hereby give the floor to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-008-023.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the Government's bill amending Law No. 340/2006 Coll., on the activities of occupational pension institutions, and informed you that the aim of this proposal is the transposition of the Directive on minimum requirements for promoting the mobility of workers between Member States by improving the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights, which has a transposition term in May 2018. The bill has already been submitted by the previous Government for discussion to the Chamber of Deputies, but the legislative process has not been completed due to the end of the parliamentary term. The directive applies only to occupational pension schemes. These are schemes in which participation is linked to employment and in which the employer enters into a contract with a financial institution on the management of funds and the payment of benefits. A system of employee pensions is not implemented in the Czech Republic. Support for workers' mobility is implemented by removing obstacles created by certain rules on occupational pension systems. For example, an example can be given. a requirement for a directive on waiting times and ages. Where the acquisition of pension rights is subject to a waiting period or a period of active participation in the scheme, that period shall not exceed three years. Where the acquisition of pension rights is subject to a minimum age, that age may not exceed 21 years. Furthermore, occupational pension institutions are obliged to inform a participant of the impact of termination of employment on his pension rights from the scheme before the end of employment. [[15.50 hours]] Although the employment pension system is not implemented in the Czech Republic, we are still obliged to implement the provisions of the directive into the legal order. Therefore, the draft law complements the provisions of the Act on the activities of occupational pension institutions, which is a law which has previously implemented European rules in this field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-008-023.u3	Thank you. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jan Řehounek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-008-023.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I present the rapporteur's observations on paragraph 22, when the House press presented is the transposition of Directive No 22 of the European Parliament and of the Council. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. By not accepting this transposition, the Czech Republic would be at risk of initiating infringement proceedings under Article 258 or 260 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. As mentioned here, the purpose of the directive is to facilitate the mobility of workers between Member States by improving the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights of participants in the so-called second pension pillar. The amendments to the Act are not proposed beyond the scope of the transposition and are merely a complement to the requirement for the conditions of acquisition and maintenance of rights from occupational pension schemes and a supplement to the obligation of information on these conditions to be fulfilled by the institution of occupational pension insurance entirely in accordance with the Directive. As has already been mentioned, the employment pension scheme is not implemented in the Czech Republic, so there is no legal regulation that would completely modify these pensions and which could be changed. Nevertheless, the Czech Republic is still obliged to transpose the provisions of the directive into legal order. The existing provisions of Law No. 340/2006 Sb. I recommend that this House press be ordered to discuss the committees and proceed to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-008-023.u5	Thank you. Now let me read the apology of Minister Martin Stropnický from today's meeting from 16 to 17.30 for work reasons. I am opening a general debate on this point. I ask if anyone is interested in speaking in the general debate. I don't see anyone. I am ending the general debate. Once again, there was no motion to return or refuse, so we will deal with the commandments of the committee. We'll be the first to give the press to the board of guarantee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We may proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 93, registered by 168 Members, for 144, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees? It's not like that. I'm saying we've exhausted this point. I end the first reading of this law and thank the Minister and the rapporteur. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
