ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u1	28. Proposal by Members of Marek Benda, Ondřej Veselý, Patrik Nacher, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Marian Bojko, Leo Luzar, Dominik Feri, Věra Kovářová and others for the Act amending Act No. 65/2017 Coll., on health protection against harmful effects of addictive substances, as amended by Act No. 183/2017 Coll. House printing 87/ - first reading This item was interrupted on Friday 20. 4. and then was interrupted on Wednesday 23. Five, so let's keep going. I assume that we are in the debate, and that is general, and Mrs Helena Válková is registered. So he has the floor. Mr Ferjenčík will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u2	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I threatened to be extensive at the club, and I see that some have taken it to heart and will probably not listen to some considerations and legal comments for so long. However, I have decided that I will at least give you a tour of the Constitutional Court's findings - but Mr Vice-President, I will not do this! Because... [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I mean, really, I'm not gonna be here, it's like it reminds me of when I'm in the auditorium...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u3	I'm asking the House for peace. If there's anything you need to do, it's outside the boardroom. [[Messenger. Thank you, Mr Vice-President.]] Please hold still. Not everyone listened to my calls, both left and right, still discussing. And if it doesn't end, I'll name them... Well, thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u4	Thank you, too. I don't think anyone is obligated to care about this issue, or is so convinced that even if they hear that we have doubled the number of deaths due to smoking, it doesn't really matter, because he's going to assert his independence and freedom of business, so obviously he has the opportunity to leave the O.R., but he doesn't have to disturb here. I wanted to say about two or three important things here, to tell you. The first is that we should, after all, respectfully respect the rule of law to learn a lesson from the Constitutional Court, which decided by the finding of 27 March 2018, where a group of senators sought the abolition of many provisions of Act No. 65/2017 Coll., on health protection against harmful effects of addictive substances. Don't worry, although I know it's very misleading, because only partially the issue of anti-smoking, as opponents say, is addressed in this anti-smoking. I'm not gonna say it again, and I'm always gonna say tobacco or anti-smoking law to make it faster on the microphone. So a group of senators sought to abolish part of this law, mostly the part that concerned the ban on smoking in public food spaces. But not just that. As the Constitutional Court ruled, we all know. The Constitutional Court, with two exceptions, in which the first case annulled the word "primarily" - a provision prohibiting the sale of tobacco products, smoking aids, herbal products intended for smoking and electronic cigarettes and selling or serving alcoholic beverages for an action intended primarily for persons under the age of 18 - thus abolished the word "primarily" in the light of its uncertainty. In the latter case, he annulled the words "his or" and this was in the provision prohibiting the use of alcoholic beverages or the use of other addictive substances for a person who is engaged in an activity which could endanger his or her life or health or harm property, or in respect of which another legislation provides for a prohibition on the use of alcohol or other addictive substances in or prior to the pursuit of that activity, in such a way as to ensure that it does not exercise that activity under the influence of alcohol or other addictive substance, in breach of the right to privacy. Thus, the legitimate purpose of this provision will be maintained even if it does not affect situations in which an individual would only threaten himself or anyone else as a result of alcohol consumption or other addictive substance. So basically you can say, these are words. They're not words, because they're perfecting the meaning. In the rest of the Constitutional Court rejected the motion. And what was the result of that finding in relation to what we're dealing with today and what's the solution to a proposal that's already known as Bendův's proposal? By the way, not always in the past, they were representatives of ODS or prominent ODS politicians who opposed smoking bans in public food spaces. I remember doktor. Boris Šťastný, Chairman of the Health Committee, who has been pushing for years but has failed to enforce this, smoking ban. So the Constitutional Court's finding, if we sum it up in those two points, very briefly and, of course, so simplifies it: Firstly, the protection of human freedom without the protection of human life, health and the environment, which both life and its freedom allow, would lack meaning. The right to health implies a positive obligation on the State to take and protect health through the various necessary measures. This is the first conclusion of the Constitutional Court's finding. So I would like someone to comment on the finding in the discussion and to question the message sent to us by the legislators, if any, by factual arguments. Two. Smokers are a means that does not protect the health of the population and does not ensure the enforcement of the law even roughly comparablely as a total ban on smoking in dietary establishments. At the same time, they are both more expensive and more demanding for catering operators, who are then subject to a greater degree of possible sanctions by the State for failing to comply with the exact technical and functional conditions of the establishment of smoking facilities. A total ban on smoking is a standard solution, which is not exceptional in other countries. Period. Consequently, the two conclusions immediately resulting from the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Here even the Constitutional Court points out that there may be a controversial effect that the petitioners did not imagine at all, or if so, they underestimated it that it could be more expensive and more demanding for the food operators. From this very comprehensive finding, I think it would be good to quote and draw your attention to the following evaluation of the Constitutional Court. The ban on smoking in the internal area of the food service establishment affects a significant part of the population by forcing them to adapt their habits, whether they relate only to them or go beyond their social relations. Without questioning the fact that smoking has a negative effect on health, people affected by this ban may view it as an intervention in their lifestyle and attribute a certain symbolic value to it when it comes to expressing the degree of individual freedom in today's society. Thus, the main arguments contained in the Senator's proposal to cancel the respective parts of the anti-smoking, anti-smoking law - in a nutshell, imprecisely. [[15.50 hours]] As a result of the prohibition of smoking, the autonomy of the will of the natural persons of smokers is limited in the possibility of dealing with the tobacco product and, at the same time, to intervene in their right of ownership, because they cannot smoke in some places. And that, of course, is all, and here we will not deny it, by the Constitution of protected goods, values, interests. Legitimate. Therefore, the Constitutional Court must - and the Constitutional Court has also done so in its finding - assess them by the optics of proportionality. It must address the question of whether this is a means of being as fair as possible in relation to the fundamental right in which the law is to be affected in this way. The question is, therefore, whether it would be possible to achieve the purpose of legal regulation without the possibility of smoking being excluded throughout the internal area of the food service establishment. In the case of persons located within the interior of an establishment, the required protection against passive smoking cannot be achieved otherwise than by the absence of smoking or distribution of that space in such a way that only part of it is smoked. The question is whether the separation of space can be considered as a solution which is at least comparablely effective in terms of the target pursued as a complete smoking ban. This separation does not mean the establishment of a new, completely independent establishment, but the reservation of a certain part of an establishment for customers wishing to smoke. The point is, in essence, that there will be a building-separated space reserved for smoking within the meaning of Section 10 of the Tobacco Act. However, such a solution is not capable of fully preventing the negative effects of smoking on people who would use this space. And the Constitutional Court states: Even in such a case, it cannot be excluded that, to a certain extent, there will always be the penetration of smoke into other premises of the establishment. At the same time, it is hard to imagine that workers would not occasionally be forced to enter these premises if they were to consume food and drink on these premises, even if they were brought by a customer. It's not just about cleaning up outside the time it smokes. The need to enter these premises may arise, for example, in order to remove food residues and used utensils that are left in the space by customers and which prevent other customers from using part of this space, preventing damage to equipment, or the need to solve acute cases, such as medical cases that sometimes occur in the operation of such facilities. The health of the food workers is also harmed in smoking even if they comply with the operator's ban. Although it is true that an employee may not stay in such an area during his or her work while smoking, the employee inhales residues even if there is no smoking, such as cleaning this room, even after a long period of time, since tobacco smoke persists in walls or household textiles located in these premises. The operators of catering facilities are then subject to higher demands that they must also ensure that persons under the age of 18 do not enter the smoking shops. Last but not least, it should be pointed out that in the case of the occupied non-smoking part, non-smokers are forced to use the places in the smoking part of the catering facilities. In doing so, non-smokers cannot be burdened with putting their health at risk if they are to be visited by a food establishment. Instead, they must be able to participate in social life without endangering their health. Moreover, the appellants themselves point to the abolition of these provisions, or senators, that the smoking ban is not respected and cannot be enforced. The German Federal Constitutional Court also pointed out the same facts. This was the decision of the German Constitutional Courts, which annulled the regulation there, as the appellants said in a very inaccurate manner. In particular, it was the judgment of the Federal Constitutional Court of 30. 7. 2008 followed by other decisions, but not because of the unconstitutional nature of the smoking ban itself, but because of its exceptions, which created unequal treatment between operators. The Federal Constitutional Court has repeatedly stressed the constitutional difficulties of the flat-rate ban on smoking, as may be true in neighbouring Bavaria. The Constitutional Court also added that the legislature is not deprived of the scope for any other regulation of smoking in food service establishments. On the other hand, he pointed out that if the Czech legislature had agreed to define exceptions - I am now talking about the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic - he would have faced a difficult situation in the search for their proper legislative definition, and in the end it could have been, as in Germany, that there would have been an objection to unequal treatment. I will go back to protecting the life and health of customers and employees. There are really no equally effective variants here, except for the one that I have critically commented on here using the arguments of the Constitutional Court's findings. After all, they are not even the subject of our discussion today, and if I should sum up, the smoking shops that are proposed do not protect the health of the population and do not even ensure the enforcement of the law in an approximately comparable manner as the ban now under appeal. Thus, by this optics of proportionality, the Constitutional Court assessed the two values protected by our constitutional order. At the same time, they are both more expensive and more demanding for catering operators, who are then exposed, as I mentioned above, to a greater extent of possible sanctions by the State for failing to comply with the exact technical and functional conditions set up by the smoking shops. And the conclusion? Therefore, the Constitutional Court did not find that allowing smoking would be a measure that would enable the objective pursued by the contested legislation in less intensive interference with the right of ownership of individuals affected by the prohibition of smoking in the internal area of catering services establishments to be achieved as effectively as possible. The full ban on smoking is a standard solution, which is not exceptional in other countries, but is repeated by the Constitutional Court. The restriction of smokers in the treatment of tobacco products is therefore proportionate in his view and in the light of the finding. Smoking in a food service establishment is not the object or substance of the business of operators of these facilities and certainly not the constitutionally protected essence of this business. It is only the accompanying activity of guests, which an operator would be willing to bear in its facilities and others would not. We've read publicly available statistics here. They don't really give us any evidence of any alarming facts. And if we are more concerned with the argument of this type, such as that there is more mess and noise and the bad example of smoking on the streets, in this respect, I think that this - and now forgive me for the kind of expressively emotional expression - demagogical arguments will not stand, because I experience the problem of smoke harassment very often, but not only in the vicinity of restaurants. In fact, for all buildings, when you walk around, you can see that a number of workplaces, institutions, companies, have reserved spaces outside, and let's not just restrict ourselves to the pavements, but let's just take balconies or common areas of houses, where there is also smoking. So it is not logical at all to appeal to this and to demand that the smoking ban in restaurants be abolished because the smokers are bothering us on the streets. Well, then I guess we couldn't even work or walk the streets. This argument simply does not stand at all. And the idea that smokers who would gather in smoking without operators would stop smoking - I agree with the author of the article that came out today in the Mladá fronta Today - is completely naive. The proposed breakthrough and the abolition of the ban would in no way solve this. [[16.00 hours]] Moreover, I think that most smokers, like the author of the post that came out correctly today when we discuss this issue, behave with consideration and know that when they play with their own health, they should not mess with the health of all of us who do not want to threaten them, or we are threatened only to the extent necessary that we cannot face, such as exhaust gases. Smokers, I think they're already disciplined enough in our company to try to minimize these risks. So referring to them here really doesn't hold up as an argument. I would take the liberty, because I see that our ranks have really thinned, and rather than commenting on further judicial decisions from other countries that have modified the regulation of smoking indoors in restaurant facilities or catering facilities, it is probably not worthwhile, because there are probably only those who are as convinced as I am that there are not enough arguments in the rule of law and maybe - and now I don't want to accuse anyone, take this as a theoretical consideration - even under the strong influence of the tobacco lobbyists, calling off the ban with a reference to the fact that we are being harassed by smokers on the streets and the exaggeration of the protection of freedom of business, which, as you can see from the grounds of the Constitutional Court's finding, does not stand either. My colleague, I would like to name her by your means, Professor Adámková, our Member, has said one sentence at the club meeting this morning, which has stuck me. That the person who is not affected by the smoking mortality data is already virtually immune and resistant to anything, and probably the argument doesn't make sense. Still, I think we should know the views of most of our population. Of course, I do not only associate with those who are happy and satisfied and calm that they can go to any restaurant and do not have to ask whether they smoke there or not, but I also meet people from the opposite perspective, but they are a distinct, distinct minority. So I was thinking, that's like 30 over 70, but 30 percent of them are screaming a lot, and they probably know why. I don't know, they haven't convinced me yet. And the 70 percent are happy, so he's quiet. All the more important and all the more important are the results of how people behave after one year of the anti-smoking law. The Faculty of Social Sciences of the UK carried out research in May 2018 and the main findings of the research, which was representative, I think it would be necessary to quote here, although many of you already know it. First of all, people go to hospitality facilities more often than they did three years ago. Second, even smokers are now more aware that they are restricting the freedom of non-smokers through their smoking. Third, only 12 percent of people are upset that they can't smoke in the hospitality facilities. But they are often and loudly represented by Members in this House. Fourth, drinking beer is falling because of the preferences of young people. They prefer mixed alcoholic drinks. So that, in turn, is the argument that our consumption of beer is falling, which has always been associated with a cigarette. The new research, which took place in 301 restaurants and bars, also shows that only 21 percent of the operators suffer from smoking bans, but only 8 percent said that they would be helped to abolish this ban. And now here I have specific detailed, detailed information that these general conclusions show on empirical data. I have them here, I can show them, put them at their disposal, independent research, there's a lot of interesting information, even what bothers people when visiting hospitality facilities etc. See if they see smoking as a symbol of freedom, for example. The younger people are, the more often they do not view smoking as a symbol of freedom. People disagree that smoking is a symbol of freedom, in 64 percent of cases. If I were to take the argument behind the argument here, we already have empirical data to prove that we, dear colleagues and dear colleagues, are creating ourselves a problem. So I also get a lot of e-mails: Isn't there something better on the agenda? What really concerns the population of this country more? Social housing, legal aid, insolvency proceedings. Things that bother people who hopefully gave us a mandate, but here we are dealing with a proposal to break through, but let's really tell ourselves the truth about abolishing the ban on smoking in public food establishments without our population wanting it. The latest research says that 70 percent of the people, our public, are satisfied, 30 percent are not. In this place, I am simply appealing again to those of you who may not yet have been determined to think about it, to think about who they will be voting for, and to realize that in a way we are giving our public a signal that we are subject to lobbyists. If we break through this ban, we are the Members who once vote in this way, the second time, depending on who pushes us. That we're not consistent in our decisions. At the same time, we are signaling that we do not care as much about health and life, including the health and life of young people as we do about the so-called values. freedom to do what any of us want to do. I think the Constitutional Court's finding has given us some constitutional boundaries. Of course, it does not tell us how to make decisions, but it certainly tells us what we should consider in our decisions. There is one more point in this regard. I think it is a real shame, we have also opened up and interrupted the point of the national referendum law, that we do not yet have it here and that we do not have the opportunity to ask the public through it. And I've said that before. Believe me, I'm very glad, of course, that we have that total ban. But if 60 percent of our population were to say no to me, break the ban, so despite the Constitutional Court's findings, I would submit. Because it's most of the people in this country. But it's exactly the opposite. And what irritates me most about this whole thing is that the minority here pretends to be the majority, that it is argued here, as I say, under the influence of who knows what tobacco lobby, with arguments that are falling apart, I do not want to say to dust symbolically, in the light of statistical data, empirical data, findings of health professionals and doctors, justifications and arguments contained in the Constitutional Court's finding, despite all this with full seriousness many of you will raise your hand for such a breakthrough. And that fills me with sadness, surprise, and that is why I am also speaking so much here, and perhaps too long for you to think again about whether this House of Deputies will actually do this. It then pulls behind her as such a red thread, which I think will not serve her honor, but rather the other way around. I want to end up with something more optimistic. Despite what I heard here for the argument before I came forward, and despite the fact that many of my colleagues say that there is no point in arguing, I would still ask you to consider and raise your hand to reject the bill submitted by Members led by them, or we know it under the name of Bendův's parliamentary proposal, or the bill of this law, to reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u5	Thank you, too. I have three more factual points, then the rapporteur with priority rights. Mr Veselý, then Mr Michálek and Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will only try to respond briefly in a technical note to some of the suggestions presented by Mrs Válková here. First of all, when it comes to the need to enter those smoking shops, somebody's arguing that they're gonna have to carry food and drinks out there, they probably didn't read the novel. It's just not allowed to bring food in there at all, so there's no food left over that can't be carried away if the food isn't allowed in there at all. And in terms of drinks, that's what it is: smoking can be brought in for the permission of the staff. If the staff has a problem with smoking, but they don't take it, they just won't allow it, and they won't even take it. And they won't have anything to carry. The same is the argument that smokers or non-smokers there, if they don't have room in the pub, so they choose to sit in the smoking room. Well, I guess that's nonsense. I mean, when I'm at the airport and I have nowhere to sit, I'm not going to stand or sit in a smoker. But there will be smokers, and there will be smokers, and why would there be no smoker if it is not served there and it is smoked there? That is also not a relevant argument. The same argument is that smoking or smoking will return to the pubs. Well, we're all from some kind of environment, and most of us know that even before this law, which we want to amend, most or a lot of restaurants, classic restaurants, where food was served, it itself introduced a smoking ban. In complete space, they just didn't have smoking shops. And you can't expect the same restaurants to return smoking to those places after this novel. On the contrary, I think that where the ban on smoking really turned out to be good for those innkeepers or restaurant operators, I suppose they'll stay with it. And I think it's gonna be a special case, 'cause it's gonna force an investment to put a smoker in there. Only one who's really worth the investment is gonna make it. So I think the facilities are going to be less than that, and they're going to be, in my opinion, the country facilities I've been talking about the last time. [[Attention on time.]] As far as-- excuse me, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u7	Mr Ferjenčík, indeed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u8	Thank you for the floor. I was just picked up by that reference from my colleague. Wars through Mr President about these insolvencys, because it happened today on the Constitutional Legal Committee, and everyone, except the pirát, agreed that we would put it off until September, so I don't understand that they're going to say that they're supposed to work on insolvencys when they're stalling themselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u9	Mrs Válková indeed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u10	Thank you. You forgot to say, by means of you, it delays itself. Secondly, when it comes to insolvency, that's where we need to be, Mr Ferjenčík, through the Vice-President, where we need enough time, you know? I would not like us - through you, Mr Vice-President - to throw away such a major novel just to make a mark. I think it is appropriate, because, as Mr Výborný said, they will really change some of the parameters of the law, its present form, so I think that time will really be used, and it does not mean that we would not do anything for that time. On the contrary, we will work on this if we do not continue to deal with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u11	Thank you. Now, with priority rights, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u12	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me just a few comments in the general debate. First of all, I wanted to have a sort of festive excavation of the third act of the first reading of this proposal, but, of course, ladies first. I am glad that the professor here has just given a relatively perfect breakdown of the outcome of the Constitutional Court. I'm not gonna talk about what's been said here anymore because it's all over again. I think it's just the new stuff that needs to be dealt with. One of the new things that was mentioned by Professor Válková is research. Yesterday, a new survey came out of the Faculty of Social Studies. This is just a brief remark to some of you who have been talking about the fact that surveys are some crap, that they can be influenced, that these are insignificant matters, irrelevant, but yet we have to realise that they do it sophisticatedly, that experts do it, and we have to say that they obviously have some weight. I would like to draw your attention here to one thing that has not yet been mentioned. Note the proposal in its original version, as proposed by the appellant, where it is said: No smoking in the places referred to in paragraph 1 (a). (i) to (k) shall not apply to (a) smoking shops, etc., (b) small catering facilities, pubs and bars, unless they are licensed to serve alcohol, they shall not serve food and their area intended for customers shall not exceed 80 m2. - Please, the plaintiffs probably didn't realize that the operator wouldn't be deciding whether his establishment here in the 80 m2 would be smoking or non-smoking, he's just determined that it's a smoking establishment. He doesn't have a free decision, he can't put a smoking sign in there. It's just not possible, because he has given that his establishment is smoking. I think it is against all logic, it is against freedom, individual freedom, against freedom of business, it is also against health, of course. And we should consider that as an important argument, because we don't want that. On that occasion - I, of course, will still be able to speak in the final speech - I would like to confirm here in the general debate my proposal for rejection at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u13	Thank you. The proposal is registered here and, of course, we will vote on it. Now, in fact, the plaintiff, Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u14	Dear Vice-President - is there no one from the government here? No, the Minister has returned. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I'm taking notes, and I'm going to respond in the final speech to everything that sounds. But only the rapporteur's question that all I can do in life is based on the law is simply a complete misunderstanding of the rule of law. Any single person can do what is not forbidden by law. We're just breaking through here that it's not legally forbidden, but otherwise, of course, just as I can ban smoking in my apartment to my visitors, and it doesn't come from the fact that I'm not allowed to say in the law that I'm allowed to ban it in the apartment, so I can say, "I don't smoke at home," so, of course, I can do it in the establishment, and of course, it's been done in the past, and we haven't been regulated by the law. So only state power can do what the laws allow it to do. Every single citizen can do anything the law doesn't forbid him to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u15	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík has the floor now with a proper application and Mr Válek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u16	Thank you for the floor. I'm just going to repeat why the pirát, in the vast majority, support the shift of this law to the next reading. This is because, at a time when smoking can be in a department store, there may be a smoking shop at the airport, there is a smoking shop in this Chamber of Deputies, so we see no reasonable reason to ban the innkeepers from having to set up - and I stress - a constructionally separate ventilated smoker without operators at their premises. We just don't get it, why not tell these people not to. And that is the basic argument why we support the shift of this law into further reading. We can talk about those 80 meters. But the smoking shops, we just don't think smoking is logical. [[16.20 hours]] And one more comment. Public discussion is a lot about whether to ban or allow smoking in restaurants. But that's not what the law is about. The law is whether we allow or ban smoking in restaurants. And I think if you were to ask people in research if they would forbid the innkeepers to set up a smoking shop at their expense, the answer would be very different than when it's said that we're now allowing a person to eat and smell again. I don't think anybody wants that. And the smoking ban just makes people crowded in front of the pubs and harassing people walking around with the smoke. And this is a real problem, Mrs Válková through the President - I did not, by the way, forget about my factual point. Well, that's a real problem. For example, in Prague, in Žižkov, it happens quite commonly that one has trouble walking the pavement. And it's a big problem in relation to the people who live above the restaurants and have no problem at all until the adoption of the law, and they have a new problem because the noise after 10 o'clock is much bigger than it used to be. That's why we support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u17	Thank you. Mr. Válek MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u18	Thank you. I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, I haven't prepared for any performance for as long as this, basically three weeks or how long we've been discussing it. So I wanted to thank Mr Benda in the first place because for the first time here I have experienced what I have been looking forward to, parliamentary democracy, where many of you say your opinion here, are not ashamed of him, defend him, and even if I do not agree with it, he is fighting for him, across different sides. Well, I'd like to thank you so much for that. I didn't think I'd be here. I think it's important to tell you why the law was adopted. I don't know. I don't know, the one who put him on the table, what was the aim of the bill. If that means the law has been fulfilled. If the goal was to get the smokers out of the restaurants, that was the law, then it was fulfilled, and I don't see any reason to do anything about it. If the aim was to restore the population, with all due respect to Mr Vyzula, I do not believe the data at all, because it is a short time before the data could be. Just as I don't really believe in studies, he knows very well how we started with publications. Then there were these thieving magazines where the publications don't count. Then we said, if it's not an impact factor of at least ten, it's not that either. Now that it's not Q1, it's not that. So all that stuff, the studies, it sounds so nice that something came up, so... What's my goal for smokers? My goal, as far as smokers are concerned, is to essentially eliminate smokers on the outskirts of society and convince the rest of the company that smoking is simply not a good way that they shouldn't smoke. Of course, it is not my intention to act restrictively against smokers in any way, for example, by committing a crime or infraction of smoking. But I'm sure you need to label smokers as something that's not right. Here was a comparison made to obese, overweight, who also harm their health and who do not harm those around, or are not, let's say, the ones around. So if you guys had bad luck in the economic class and flew to the United States between two overweight people, you probably felt different about the usurping. There's an alcohol analogy here, but alcoholics are bad for the neighborhood because a lot of accidents and fatal accidents are caused by alcoholics and those who drink behind the wheel. The general perception, let's say we have some alcohol taxed zero, and then we're discussing different exceptions, so the general perception of alcoholics, to those who are addicted to alcohol, so the general perception of society is negative. And probably different restrictions than alcoholics, if I compare it to those smokers, that means we can't serve drunk drinks in restaurants, we can't support drunks, we can't support drivers, we don't serve alcohol to minors. That's the general consensus and, of course, that's the boundary, because, on the other hand, prohibition isn't the right way. It's very similar with the overweight, because there's a lot of diets, a lot of recommendations, there's a pretty tough bullying by doctors, if you don't lose weight, for example, you don't get surgery. Some types of surgery require the patient to lose weight before surgery. This means that it is not that there is no pressure from the professional and lay public and there is no pressure from the state against the obese to lose weight. And the pressure is similar to the smokers in this logic thing for me. I must agree with what MEPs and colleague Ferjenčík say here, I absolutely agree with that. It seems absurd to me that, on the one hand, smoking should not be allowed in restaurants, which in those areas where there has always been virtually historical smoking, and on the other hand, smoking in parliament should not be allowed, we should set an example. Let's cancel the smoking room here. That he could smoke in hospitals. That patients in the pulmonary ward run out in front of the pulmonary, there they're gonna smoke to survive the hospitalization. Well, that seems paradoxical to me. But this is happening. It's not something that doesn't happen. That means yes, I would like the smoking bill to be tightened. So that there really is no smoking in those areas where smoking is not supposed to happen, and there is really no smoking where it hurts the neighborhood. And restaurants are one of these spaces. I don't think there has to be any debate about the harmfulness of smoking. I don't think anyone's gonna dare say that smoking isn't harmful. And I don't think there's a debate today either. For pánbůh's sake, this is the situation. I remember some of the speeches, let's say, now I don't know if I could say to fellow politicians who had a completely opposite opinion and would defend him. But I just want to say one last thing, and that's that I know a number of smokers from different social, cultural and financial circles who repeatedly and often in vain try to quit smoking and do a lot for it. I don't know the only non-smoker who's repeatedly desperate and vainly trying to learn how to smoke, and he's done a lot for it. That means, from this point of view, I think the general social pressure is for people to stop smoking. And even though I like the design and I'm really glad it fell here, for all these reasons, the doctor doesn't really transfer me, but the one who thinks that smoking in general shouldn't be supported in any way and that smokers should kind of push themselves to the edge of society if I overdo it. And this law is one of the ways. However, it still bothers me, I would very much like it to be said here, what was the aim of the authors of the law. What exactly was the target. What was the goal, why the law was passed. And if the real goal was to gradually eliminate smokers from restaurants and from various public spaces, that goal was fulfilled. If the aim was to gradually reduce and cancel the sale of cigarettes, perhaps this is the way to that end. Then I'd like to hear it so we can see if the target has been met and if we're approaching it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u19	Thank you. Mr Španěl, please, and Mr Staněk will be ready. Pavel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will certainly not defend smokers in my speech, but I will also not lynch them like some previous speakers. I have to stand up for the businessmen I've been with for years. I just have to. [[16.30 hours]] After the fall of the previous regime, many small enthusiasts also threw themselves into business outside the great and predatory pike. Most were attracted mainly by freedom, with which they can do what they like and at the same time provide a dignified livelihood for themselves and their families. They all learned as they marched and were willing to overcome with great enthusiasm the difficulties and obstacles that brought them rapidly changing laws. Everyone believed that soon the business environment would be stabilized and their efforts would bear fruit. Most of the small businessmen worked from morning to night, and with increasing bureaucracy the original enthusiasm was weakening. For example, such an unpleasant one, but basically simple control from the sanitary station has turned into bureaucratic recording of data of all kinds. Most small businessmen had to hire a company to do this. The fact that all other checks in the Republic were handed to each other at the premises may not even need to be further dissected. Mainly restaurant operators know what I'm talking about. After that, a request was made for the smoking and non-smoking department. Traders often survived all these complications - yes, with gnashing their teeth - and managed to separate the said spaces as well. However, in May 2017, the so-called "Prime Minister' entered into force. Anti-smoking law and everything is different again. Small restaurants have lost a small part of their clientele, pubs are often empty, and only outside the door is a bunch of smokers who don't want to understand that the state meant well with their health. On top of that, a completely incomprehensible sticker to the law, where the owner and operator are responsible for what the guest, after drinking alcohol in their restaurant, will further cause in any drunkenness. I think the anti-smoking law combined with the introduction of the EET, which, by the way, came too late, was the last straw for many. Many completely disgust ends. They didn't ask for anything from the state. Only stable and thoughtful laws without attempts, which must be revised and amended by another Chamber of Deputies. The experiment system - a mistake can be understood only a few years after the revolution. Today, I would expect a different professional approach from the legislators. Unfortunately, politics mainly in the so-called. established political parties usually prevail over sound, let's say, common sense. Sure, smoking is probably harmful to health and the state should work on education. On the other hand, it is not possible for the state to constantly organize the lives of its rightful adults. He's not a businessman, and he can't be a guinea pig. We in the SPD will, although most of the club is non-smokers, vote to mitigate this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u21	Thank you. I beg Mr Staněk Pavel and Mr Munzar will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u22	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, perhaps a few words about myself, to give you an idea of who is talking to you in terms of access to the smoking bill. I've been a non-smoking man my whole life, even once a quarter, once a month whether I light a cigarette or a cigar. But basically, I'm not a smoker. The issue of the harmful effect of addictive substances focuses mainly on smoking in the proposed amendment to the existing law. Me, because we've already heard a lot of statistical data here, and in other things, when I say emotional performances about how the statistics are clear, I've taken the liberty of quoting my own opinion, which I'm going to continue to quote here, to base on some kind of framework. And I got that framework from the voice of the people, the vox population. I used Facebook, and I made a survey that, if we can trust Facebook, addressed about 8,000 respondents. Facebook claims that about 1,300 read it and over 100 answered me. And did I take the liberty of using a rather harsh question - is health first, or is the right to free enterprise first? Personally, I think that such disjunction is just as misleading and hypocritical, I would almost dare say, as are the two extremes that we can theoretically talk about. This means either an absolute ban on smoking or the absence of any smoking regulation. But that question seemed understandable to me, and it is also obvious from the answers that citizens who responded to Facebook understood it. Let me remind you one more thing: the absolute ban on smoking also raises the question of the absolute ban on any addictive substance. Because it has fallen several times here, it is clear that we know alcohol harm more often from our own experience and that it is also faster and more effective for alcohol to be harmful than smoking, it is also obvious. And then I have to ask why we don't consider prohibition of alcohol as such when we fight so hard against smoking. I would like to point out that this is probably pointless, because we would never approve prohibition here in our House, but that may be too strong a statement. On the other hand, it is indisputable that passive smoking also causes cancer. There's no question about that. It is clear that according to World Health Federation data, this cancer will only kill more than 1.9 miles in Europe. people, which is a huge number, and I'm sure it's worth thinking about. On the question of what is more important, whether health or free entrepreneurship, about a quarter of people clearly spoke out against smoking in general. We're absolutely not gonna smoke. They consider health to be a superior principle and make it very annoying that people smoke on the streets, on balconies, on other public spaces, etc. But some, like smoking, would forbid, for example, smoking. stress, ban bikers, ban other phenomena that accompany us all the time and are everyday parts of our lives. By the way, I'm a biker, so I certainly wouldn't agree with the other one, and I would vote against it. More than half of the respondents who responded - and I recognise that my statistics are far from as sophisticated as the statistics presented by the Minister or the rapporteur - are consistent with what the amendment offers. In the words of an Alena from Břeclav, a restaurant with a kitchen to leave non-smoking, pubs and taverns to smoke. I add that the only way to leave them smoking is if the operator freely decides that this dump - we can classify it as space in those 80 square meters - is to decide freely that it will be non-smoking. Otherwise, I'm 100% in favour of keeping the pubs and taverns non-smoking. Well, we have the last quarter left that doesn't agree with any smoking regulation, and the most common argument is restricting freedom of business. Again, I dare ask myself rhetorically what is the difference between a legal standard that would ban smoking and common hygiene standards, for example. about the preservation and treatment of food that no one is questioning today. I would like to say that none of these standards should be accepted. However, common sense, like common sense, remains out at this point and we are talking about a philosophical topic of human freedoms which, I think, is not entirely the domain of our House. So when I look at the proposed amendments to Act No. 65, so apparently it doesn't solve everything that bothers people on the anti-smoking bill. In my opinion, the amendment does not constitute a settlement of business conditions, but to a certain extent introduces a different form of distortion. I'm bohužel so. It's my opinion. If, in the name of the same approach to smokers and non-smokers, we would like to allow smoking shops, the bill should contain a precise description of the implementation of technical measures so that those customers who refuse smoking are not affected in any way. For example, constructionally separated spaces in restaurants, cafes and similar facilities would have to look at least as much as those at airports, i.e. with an external supply and air outlet, ideally with a tourniquet entrance, or perhaps even with a airlock, so as not to affect other environments. I think that ensuring such a measure is very expensive and I personally do not know, perhaps there exist, a gas station operator who would like to do something like this or invest in it. [[16.40 hours]] From my point of view, I would therefore recommend continuing to discuss this law further, namely paragraph (d) (1). 3. Of course, I also consider the abolition of point (k) in Article 1 of Section 35, because even if, in my opinion, innkeepers are human souls, they certainly cannot see into the future and cannot assume what the guests will do after leaving their business, and then they can no longer take responsibility for what the people will do, which, unfortunately, the law also says today. I would therefore recommend, in person, that Law No. 65 in unchanged form and I would support, respectively. I would support one choice, and that means only small businesses as such. I believe that in further discussion, if it occurs, we will find a reasonable compromise, even if the Minister has persuaded our club to vote against, so I will have a somewhat difficult position in this regard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u23	Thank you, too. Now I'll read the apologies. The Minister of Foreign Affairs apologizes today from 16 a.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons, the Prime Minister for working reasons until the end of the meeting and Mr Peksa from 17.00 a.m. to the end of the meeting for working reasons. Mr. Munzar, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on this bill. I asked myself what question we were even dealing with with people. And my answer is, are we supposed to let them choose, or are we supposed to protect people from themselves? The anti-smoking law, the original one, from my point of view, went the other way and unfortunately at the expense of exercising the ownership rights of pub owners and restaurants. I understand a lot of people are crying out for wanting to go to a restaurant and get smoke-free air from cigarettes, and they're calling for a ban on smoking in restaurants. In my opinion, we're starting to live a little bit in a claim company that says, "I have the right to come to a pub that belongs to somebody, and make it a non-smoking restaurant, because I don't want to smell smoke when I come out of a pub. Stop, make it happen. By the way, that's more common argument of the normal people I've talked to about it than pointing out health risks. We all know them. If we vote only on health terms, smoking should be illegal. Forbidding smoking in certain places that we can't avoid has its reasons. Schools, public institutions, hospitals, and no one is questioning this proposal. But the pubs and restaurants are different. The state took last year's right of choice to owners and operators of the facilities they want to have a restaurant or pub. And he takes the right to choose the people they want to go to. As a non-smoking man, especially when I go with my kids, I would always prefer that non-smoking restaurant, but I guess I'm old school, and I respect the right of the restaurant owner to decide which restaurant he wants to run. Maybe I wouldn't go, but a year ago he won a claim over the right, the right of the owner to decide on his property. By the way, he didn't limit anything, he just moved the smokers out, onto the sidewalks where we all walk with the kids, under the windows where non-smokers live. Our proposal, because I signed it, too, returns the right to vote. This proposal is not about the harmfulness of smoking, nor is it even a return to fully smoking restaurants. From my point of view, this proposal seeks a compromise between the claim and the undisturbed exercise of property rights, in particular the right to choose, the possibility to set up a smoking shop, and where it cannot be done, the operator can choose. Most often, if I've heard right here, there's an argument about the harmfulness of passive smoking, but do you know who's the most affected by passive smoking? Are they really visitors to restaurants, or are they smoking kids? So the advocates of smoking bans in restaurants will forbid smoking in homes with children and will invent e.g. Any control commandos who can break into a private apartment to check it out? I mean, that would be ridiculous. And we also have this ban in private facilities today. Restaurants and pubs are private, in which you don't have to visit if you don't want to. And I support this law because it returns the right of choice and at the same time preserves places where we don't have to go, like non-smoking. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u25	Well, thank you, too. Good evening, everyone. Now please Mr Dolínek, Mr Pávek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u26	Good afternoon. After I was elected to the Chamber of Deputies, I was intrigued by one thing. I expected that there would be a problem here across the clubs to raise pensions, there would be other, essential things to deal with here, an improvement in the transport service of the regions. No. Despite the clubs here, there was a law that was supposed to change something in the area of no smoking in restaurants. It wasn't anything that burned mostly any city, community or group, meant a group that had some problems, it was somehow disadvantaged, but really disadvantaged. Something has been prepared here, a law that, on the contrary, reserves an advantage over the speaker, can make a smoker. Can you imagine if there was a cuckoo on a plane, on a flight, a smoking shop where people would go on a flight? Can you imagine that in the bus line Praha-Liberec there would be a smoker, in the back, the last four places, a door, and there would be a smoker? We've been through this a long time. And now all of a sudden we come up with the fact that when we were able to deal with smoking in restaurants, we were looking for a gap again to put it back there. Doesn't seem right to me. I think that even surprisingly this very complex standard, and I understand that it is difficult for many people to change their life habits, adapt to something else, it was surprisingly very smoothly applied. One day you could smoke, the next day you didn't find the ashtrays in most restaurants. Compared to other standards such as EET etc., this application was significantly in practice than other things. [[unintelligible]] I also very much appreciate how Mr Benda was able and is able to lead the debate sophisticatedly, that he personally and other submitters do not slide to populism, but really try to keep the plane relatively factual, for that I thank you very much that the discussion does not really attack some basic instincts, but is really trying to explain the reasons. But I can say for myself, and I must say, that I have not felt such a serious problem in my neighborhood for this House to have to deal with this standard so demandingly, and in addition, at a time when the amendment was written, the law was valid for about six months, maybe five. It wasn't even waiting for a year, year, twelve months, all four seasons to show what it means, before the winter was already a proposal in the world, it was predicted how difficult it would be in the winter, it was already shown how bad it would be. And I think at least that year could have waited, and if some kind of creation had started now, that discussion would have been more credible. There is one more thing, and of course the very position of the innkeepers and those who say that it has fallen hard on them. Yes, I think everyone who runs a small village restaurant in a small village deserves a kind of admiration. Often it's a crucifixion, often someone does it because they think it's their mission for the community, that they know that they just provide basic social life there, and it doesn't have it easy. If he doesn't do his business, he couldn't keep it. The smoking helped. I'm aware of that. On the other hand, again, there are people who don't want to smoke in those small villages, and when there's only one pub and there's smoke in it, there's no other choice for that person. Either he had to sit there, or he was ostracizing himself from that village's life. Please, let's give this law a chance to still apply, I think the discussion in the last parliamentary term was very large, it was here twice, it didn't go through, there was a compromise for the second time. Let's give it another chance to be true for a while. But I understand that if this proposal fails today, as proposed, or in the coming months, that we will come back to it again in a year, because I know that statistics will be, not only estimates of public opinion, but statistics will be more precise in terms of both business and health. Whoever today claims that a few months can deduce something, yes, I agree with the argument, it is slightly on the water. I think that the annual, two-year statistics will certainly be more useful and the discussion will then be more substantiated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u27	Well, thank you, too, and before I invite another speaker to the debate, I have three factual points here. First Mr. Ferjenčík. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u28	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to respond, through Mr President, to my previous speaker. As a non-smoking man, I certainly don't propose the law for myself. It bothers me that there is simply a mess in the peaceful interiors of the night in Prague because of smokers who are forced to stand there in front of the pub. It bothers me, too, what I was talking about earlier, but it's definitely not some law that smokers would write to themselves. I'm a non-smoking man, and I still support him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Juříček, with a point of fact. The MP isn't here. In that case, Mr. Veselý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u30	Note that it should be heard publicly by Petr Dolínek through Mr President. We started preparing the law in the fall, when, first, there was a problem that smokers started to be out there, they started getting cold there, started a mess, and the innkeepers said they stopped going there, that's why that fall. And we suspected, of course, before the law came to our discussion, a year had passed, and he had passed since the law was effective, which means, we've been over a year, we can evaluate it. The result is that small village pubs die and end. Of course, I understand that restaurants in the city work, but we should deal with the disproportion there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u31	Thank you, too. Now, with Mr Benda's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u32	Mr Vice-President, by your way to Mr Dolínek, who I otherwise like, but that he will come and say that it does not burn anyone but smokers, when the biggest scream was exactly from the streets of Prague from people who live above those pubs who pass through those pubs, around the creation of anti-fight teams and other things that were not from smokers at all, but were just from non-smokers who harassed it, then it surprises me a little that such a statement may be heard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u33	Thank you. There have been new factual remarks. Mr Holík, please, Mr Dolínek will be ready. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u34	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I did not count on having to repeat what I said here at last reading. I'm a non-smoker, and I consider smoking to be a nasty thing. But with this unfortunate law, we drove smokers out on the street and instead of reducing cigarette advertising, we actually made them live advertising. And I repeat, if anyone smokes in a closed room, destroys their health, it's his problem. But he's got ashtrays where he can tip his butts and shake his ashes. If we have them on the street, except, as I said, they're live ads, and they're picking up cigarettes in the wind and adding other carcinogenic ashes that we're all breathing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u35	Mr Dolínek, please, and Mr Pavel Staněk will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u36	Mr Benda, through Mr President, I can say that we have been discussing petitions at the city council for the last three years - the development of the Devils, a stop set up at a housing estate. But we certainly didn't have one petition there once. The only time there wasn't a petition to do anything about smoking in front of a house. That it's individually handled, that's right, that's right. That the city, state police have to deal with this in some cases, that's right. That the center of Prague needs a comprehensive solution to the closing hours of some clubs, I do not have to name it, that is very convenient and we agree that I think across the political spectrum. But I'm sure the city council didn't have to deal with a smoking petition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u37	Thank you and now please Mr Staněk. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u38	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to assure all colleagues who are from Prague that we know similar problems in other cities. For example, I'm from Brno, 50 metres from the house where I live, we have a 24-hour bar, and I can assure you that it's just that the crowds that stand there are also nonstop, because the bar is nonstop, it's a thing that's hard to fight, and it's hard to explain to children why people sit on the sidewalk at 3:00 p.m. as well as at 6:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u39	Thank you, too. I will now invite Mr Pávek to the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am an unlearned smoker. Rumor has it they're the worst about promoting a non-smoking environment. Maybe it's true. But I have a big, big problem with the Health Protection Act. And the problem is breaking home freedom. I don't know what happened here in the past period, I haven't been here, but it seems that in the past period, there have been several laws that have set out to break the fundamental constitutional freedoms upon which our society stands. And one of these freedoms is home freedom. Just like the Air Protection Act did. It's just that if we allow any clerk in the law to enter our house, we've done something very wrong and put the fundamental freedoms we have at risk. That's one of the biggest problems I have with the law. I know there's gonna be another one that's been mentioned ten times and a hundred times around here. What's it gonna do to those little pubs? I'm from the border. You can't imagine what it did to those little pubs. But I have a problem with the house freedom. I know that colleague Dolínek, through the President, mentioned here that most of the pubs in these villages are simply private property, they are at home with those people, that is what they deserve. And all of a sudden, they have to put up with some clerk coming in without a court order, without a warrant? Just like that, because we're here to make it break? Just like with the cauldron? Just some clerk without a trial, with nothing, based on a statement? You know what? This feels awful. And the other side, which I find even more frightening, is hypocrisy. I'm on the health committee, and I hear from my fellow doctors: nicotine is poison and kills. I couldn't agree more. We all know nicotine is poison and kills. We all know what the consequences of smoking are, whether active or passive. But the state is the biggest dealer. We're dealing with it! We're selling the poison. We collect excise duty on it and look forward to the large part of the revenue part of the state budget. So that's the hypocrisy that goes beyond the edge. We're just distributing the drug. We're distributing it to those counties, the pubs, the stalls, and then we're calling these people, the users, you can't smoke anywhere. Get in the house with it. So I cannot support the law in its original form, and I will vote in favour of the proposed amendment. But I'm saying it's not because of smoking, it's because we've broken the foundations of home freedom here and because we're actually being hypocritical as representatives of the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u41	Thank you, too. Mr Hájek is here with a factual remark. And by the time he gets to the microphone, I'll read the note. Mr Kobza apologizes to us today between 16.30 and 19.00 because of illness. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u42	Mr President, colleagues, since the Vice Prime Minister, the Minister of the Environment, has not responded, I must respond here to the demagogy that has been said. Oh, my God! I remember my first meeting with the voters last election, that was that he came to complain and told me, Mr. Hájek, what to do, next to me drowning with tires, the smoke, showing it to me in the photos. What do I do? I was at the city office at the Department of Environment, and everyone spread their hands and said, unfortunately, we can't. So what has been done, as you say, the violation of house freedom, the violation of fundamental rights and freedoms, was that we allowed the decent, who had no opportunity to defend themselves, to achieve that, after really fulfilling all the assumptions, it is not that an official breaks in, that is, it is a legislative procedure, at the end of which is only the possibility that the official concerned, who is qualified, is a person who knows and can come to the boiler room, not to the house. [[17,00 hours]] But let's get back to the subject of smoking. There is one thing that has not been said here, and that is experience from other democratic states. I assume many of you were in the UK. And for me, it was also one impulse to vote in favour of the law on the ban on smoking in restaurants, among other things, because they really keep it there, it works there, and, of course, all the pub owners create all the prerequisites for the conditions, the culture to make the person who smokes outside feel very comfortable, if they smoke. That's what I wanted to conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u43	Well, thank you, too. I have some factual points to make, so please, Mr Plzák. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would have responded to the previous speaker. I was listening to his statement, and I didn't really understand it. The way I understood it, he mixed up public space and home environment. Because you can drink and smoke all you want at home. And I don't know if anyone has a pub and a restaurant at home. If it does, then it's a club and there you can probably also do what you can and what you want. So don't confuse the home environment and the public space that we can regulate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u45	Well, thank you, too. I beg Mr Kalousek to make a point of fact. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u46	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, just a brief response under the Rules of Procedure to Mr Hájek. Yes, they do in the UK. Also, as we all know, there's quite a problem in London on the sidewalks for those who live there because everyone smokes outside the bars. But first of all, I would like to point out that they do not have an EET in the UK, so I would like to ask my colleagues why they always choose from all the countries of the European Union the examples where the repression is, but no longer mention them as examples where the repression is not. If we take these examples only where the repression is, we will be the most repressive country within the European Union. And I believe that for many of us, that is not the goal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u47	Thank you. I have other factual points here. So, Mr Munzar, Mr Beitl will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u48	Thank you. I would like to respond to Mr Plzák by your means, Mr President. Personally, I don't think a restaurant and a pub are public space. There is a difference between public space and public space. Please don't mix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u49	Thank you, too. So, please, Mr Beitl, and Mr Klaus will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u50	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll just add to that the exact definition of Wikipedia: Public space or public space are open to the public. Attention now: Typically owned by the public, it is a state or a community. Please let private owners determine the regime in their premises. The logical thing is that the space is marked whether it's smoking or not. And when it's labeled non-smoking, then for smokers, it doesn't exist for non-smokers. (?) It's a pretty simple principle, and based on that principle, it can work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u51	Well, thank you, too. Please, Mr Klaus, Mr Dolínek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u52	I'll follow up on my two colleagues. The pub that belongs to someone isn't public space. You can either go to the pub or you don't have to go to the pub. Public space is a hospital, school and similar premises. So don't be scared by the fact that it's some kind of public space. That pub belongs to someone, it's in his property, and he's supposed to determine for himself what the terms are or aren't there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u53	Thank you. Please, Mr Dolínek, and Mrs Válková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u54	I didn't want to get into that discussion, but let's do it. At this point: How did casinos and slot machines end up in Prague 6? They ended up being private operators, though they were in municipal spaces. Will we define in this law that anyone who rents from the village or from the state restaurant will be banned from smoking there? Shall we go into these definitions? It's not like that. Let's not make any new problems! It's clearly leveled for everyone here, the odds of not smoking there. Or we get into this absurdity, that really the urban parts, the municipalities, the cities will start to make a condition in the selection process. Florists, refreshments, restaurants, in parentheses in any such type of establishment may not be applied by law, and will be mentioned there. I don't think we want this to happen. Please, let's leave it as it is, and let's get back to it in a year or two when the stats are clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u55	Thank you, too. Please, Mrs Válková, Mr Klaus will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u56	I just wanted to call on my colleagues, by your means, Mr President, if we could stop using the demagogical arguments that refer to Wikipedia and define public space, public space, other than the way the legislation is known, because it is, moreover, different legislation, different legislation. Because then we will end up exactly how well Mr Dolínek has said in front of me, Mr Dolínek, through you, Mr Vice-President. So if we do this to the Czech public, as we argue about the most important things, and we really leave the important ones aside, thank you very much. So I am also finishing this discussion because I think it is starting to take on exactly the direction that we did not want to take. At least I didn't want him for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u57	Thank you, too. Mr. Klaus, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u58	Madame, by your means, let the debaters take a step back from discussing how they see fit. I would have responded to Mr. Dolínek: "Well, leave it to them! If a village puts in terms of rent that it won't smoke there, it won't smoke there! If a community doesn't do it, it won't. But let the owners decide what's going to happen there. Don't get involved in their lives, in everything! You can see now, in Sweden they are already involved in sex, slowly, here you are putting yourself into cigarettes, in the order of treats to eat at school! Get a grip! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u59	Thank you. This has exhausted the factual points and I have now signed up for the debate by Minister Vojtěch. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is appropriate, in conclusion, that my colleagues, the rapporteur, the proposer, still have room, but I would say something for myself, in turn for the Ministry of Health, for the debate that took place here and was very rich. And from my point of view, unfortunately, it was often seen that rather those who support this proposal were based on some impressions, feelings, without any clear justification. So I'm going to try to say a little bit about it and disprove it, if necessary. The question of home freedom, as has been said here, I do not fully understand it either. Or the question that everyone can do whatever they want in their pub and what they see fit. Let's see what the current situation is. Do you think it's possible for dirt, moldy food, mice, and so forth to be tolerated in the pub? Nay! Each pub is subject to health inspection, state agricultural and food inspection. The pubs are already under strict control. It's not just some private space where everyone can do whatever they want. If that were the case, they could actually sell moldy food there, they could run mice and stuff like that. But it's not like that! If they find out about this, they'll close the pub immediately or give her a huge fine. So the idea that it's private now and that everyone's doing what they want is completely pointless. Second thing. The question of how this affects pubs, or how they close pubs and the like. I pulled it out, of course it's a thing that, just one of the surveys, but I think it's quite relevant. In 2017, the Czech Credit Bureau did a survey on how much of the catering business has gone down. It's 953. At least in the last five years. In 2017, 16 420 were established or renewed and 17 373 were terminated or repealed. It's really at least five years from now, so the question is, where is the slump, where do they close the pubs, etc. [[17.10 hours]] Next thing. As for the impact of the law, possibly some mess in front of the pubs, etc. I find it absolutely fascinating that there is an argument here that they are tossed with butts in front of the pub, etc., when we talk about it here, and it has been said repeatedly that the law, and I may be responsible for what Professor Válek said through Mr President, what the law actually has to do with it. This law really aims to increase protection against the negative consequences of addictive substances, especially tobacco, but of course there is also alcohol, and to reduce smoking prevalence, that is, smoking in the population. That's what the law says in the explanatory memorandum. And I believe that the law is simply aiming at this, because if we look at it, and I can say again the data that we have, although of course they are being questioned, yet I have not heard any better, to the number of hospitalizations in the case of diseases directly related to smoking - cardiovascular diagnosis, asthma - so the number of these hospitalizations decreased year-on-year by 9 405 as well as the acute heart attack by 735 less hospitalization, ischemic heart disease - 14.7% less patients under 60 years of age. These are data that come from the national register of hospitalizations and there is a significant decrease that we do not record in any previous years. When we look at a longer time series, the number of hospitalizations actually related to diseases directly affected by smoking is the highest in the last few years. And that's proven. Of course, you can say that this has nothing to do with smoking, but we have no other reason for this yet than that it has something to do with smoking. So that's the effect, and that's the impact. And that's not just an impression. I repeatedly say, let's go abroad, see where this law works, England has been mentioned here, what the consequences are after ten years of the same smoking ban as ours. The decrease in the number of people taking tobacco between 16 and 24 years of age from 26 to 17 per cent, in persons over 35 years the number of deaths from heart disease caused by smoking decreased by one fifth, the number of deaths per stroke decreased by almost 14 per cent. We can also show data from Ireland etc. So it's clear here that the law has a positive impact on public health. And that, of course, is what this is all about. This takes precedence over the freedom of business, as the Constitutional Court has also said. So I repeatedly say, evaluate or change the law after 12 months, and now it will really be the 31st of May year since the law was adopted or what has become effective, so it is very irresponsible and very superficial, and I therefore ask that it be rejected at first reading, because I think that the arguments for maintaining - even from the discussion that has taken place here - are highly higher than those that we have in front of the pubs. I don't think that's a relevant argument for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u61	Thank you, too. Before we go any further, I have here a note from Mr Lipavský from today to the end of the negotiations for work reasons. And I have two more factual points. So please Mr Zahradník and Mr Kalousek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u62	I, Mr Vice-President, will no longer comment on the anti-smoking law, I have spoken in the past period, but my colleague Hájek has upset me a little with the bill of inspection of boilers. It's not like that. We can just think a hundred times that if something at this point is okay, there can't be a time when it won't be okay. So opening up the law on the possibility of going home except that the police have a search warrant is nonsense and it's just wrong. And I signed up for smoking as a reformed smoker 30 years ago that I wouldn't be expressing myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u63	Thank you. Mr Kalousek, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u64	Allow a brief response to Minister Vojtěch. With all due respect, as Minister of Health, he can't even say anything else. I can imagine that Leoš Heger's blissful memory would burn here just as passionately, but I want to fend off some argument fouls. It is not possible to say in one breath that after 12 months it is too early to say the effects, and on the other hand to list from statistics how beneficial it has been to public health. Of course, none of us doubt that smoking causes ischemic diseases, heart attacks, obstructive pulmonary diseases, etc., but none of us has one single credible number, whether the ban on smoking in restaurants has really reduced the number of smokers. And after that year, we can't even have him. So if we want to argue with statistics, let's argue seriously. Any one of us who's ever done any stats exams knows that if you say that at a rehearsal, even at a bachelor's level, you'll be fired, Minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u65	Thank you, too. I beg you, with Mr Onderka's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u66	Mr President, colleagues, fellow ministers, through Mr President to the Minister of Health. If you're saying in your speech, I'm going to quote that those who defend him come out of their impressions and feelings, I want to assure you that the only person coming out of this room is you! If you're saying that you've got surveys in your hands that are made on thousands of respondents, as happened on public television last night in the evening, it's a matter of one calculator and common sense. If we divide by 1000-14, we get 71 respondents per county. I want to warn you that I met about three times as many people during the day yesterday. By doing this research, I think it's unfair to protect myself and to say how much harm it is to all of us. The second thing related to this is the impact on health. I haven't heard the only smoker or supporter of this novel in this room who would say that smoking doesn't hurt your health. I didn't even hear any of us say we wanted to break this law. We are merely saying give space to smokers in this country through an ordinary legislative amendment. And just like last time, at the end of the day, I'll tell you one thing: please fight smoking and not smokers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u67	Thank you, too. In this way, factual remarks are exhausted, as are the debates. I'll see if anybody's coming to the debate from the O.R. Doesn't look like it. In that case, I conclude the debate and ask if there is interest in final words. It is, so please. First, the plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u68	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief. The debate was rather extensive, but I still think that some things need to be repeated easily. [[17.20 hours]] Firstly, the comprehensive analysis of Professor Válková to the Constitutional Court. I am merely stating that the Constitutional Court itself - and now I quote: The Constitutional Court adds, however, that its conclusions do not mean that it would confirm the solution chosen by the legislature as either the only possible or even the best. The fact that the chosen solution has passed the proportionality test does not mean that there is no other solution available that would more easily interfere with the rights of those who want to smoke in the same health protection standard. The legislator is thus not deprived of the room for possible other regulation of smoking in the food service premises - for any other regulation of smoking in the food service premises, I repeat once again. That means the regulation might be different. There's no way the Constitutional Court forbids it, the current one is zero. That's the first point I wanted to make. Second point. We're here again today, last time, we've been beating a lot of public opinion polls, and I've been saying that since last time in the half-empty Chamber, I've just pointed out that the survey that the Ministry of Health gave us itself has ordered it itself, for him it was carried out by STEM between 27. 3. to 2. 4, so there are two questions that I consider key. The most discussed part of the anti-smoking law is a total ban on smoking in restaurants, food service establishments. Does it bother you personally that you can't smoke inside restaurants? When it comes to pubs and beerhouses, the answer certainly does and rather yes exceeds the answers certainly no and rather no. It excels in pubs and beer houses. Likewise, it is the survey that the Ministry of Health has given us - as well as: it will be a year - question - what the anti-smoking law has begun to apply. Some insist on its validity or require it to be tightened, others ask for its mitigation or cancellation. You personally would be the anti-smoking law - and now the question is. The replies have been completely cancelled or mitigated by 50 per cent. The answers tightened or left unchanged are 47 percent. It's just the public's moods. Yes, most of the public welcomes that there's a law, that's okay. We are not disturbing him either, we are not proposing to abolish him, but we are proposing slight partial changes. And if the bill goes through the committee, we will no doubt also discuss all the possible doubts and uncertainties that have been raised here during the discussion of the last two days. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] And the last point I cannot forgive myself in relation to the fact that today the Minister for YES began to say that the ANO movement has a binding vote, including those who have signed, will vote in favour of rejecting the law. Thirteen, then. 3. 2017 - censoring. "Those pubs where there's only beer and soft drinks, the smoking ban's giving them trouble. People are pissed off about all the regulations that came in. We still have to think about what they said about it." Who do you think said that quote? Chairman of the ANO movement Andrej Babiš, current Prime Minister of the Czech Republic in resignation. So please think about whether we should talk about it or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u69	Thank you for your attention, too. I'd like my colleagues on the left to consider lowering the noise a little bit. And I'll ask the rapporteur for the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u70	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me, as rapporteur, actually sum up the whole debate that has been held in the scope of the three negotiations. A number of speakers have appeared, some of them repeatedly. I have a total of 58 contributions, of which the vast majority were factual remarks, but also a number of proper comments and proper debates. It is my duty to sum up all the contributions, but I will make this brief. First of all, I would like to respond to Mr Onderka's point of fact, through Mr President, which says - I quote: 'Leave room for these smokers'. Oh, please. Smokers have plenty of space. And the Constitutional Court confirmed it. He was directly involved in this. So I would just briefly, very briefly, because I see that you are tired of the whole issue, too, because it can be summed up in a few points. First of all, there's the medical aspect. The health aspect has been discussed in detail, discussed. There have been some statistics on hospitalization. Of course, the hospitalizations for cardiovascular diseases and pulmonary diseases are not simply due to a kind of smoking reduction, because it is a multifactorial issue, but it is interesting that it has not been repeated in recent years. And the important thing here is to mention Spain, which had a relatively soft anti-smoking law at its time, and after a few years they found that it was not effective, so they simply introduced a ban, as our current amendment proposes. And so, among other things, you've probably noticed that tomorrow is exactly the year that the ban applies here, it's kind of symbolic. The second thing that is interesting here is that in repeated surveys - this was not the only survey, but in repeated surveys it turned out that the vast majority from two thirds to three quarters of the people of our Republic, and thus the vast majority of our population supports non-smoking environments in pubs. And I think we should hear their voice because we're here for the people. The next item very often mentioned here and repeatedly in those contributions prevailing in essence today was the question of freedom of business. But here I would like to stress that this is not a law on freedom of business, but it is a law on the protection of public health. And it still needs to be emphasized, because even in those contributions it was repeatedly mentioned that it was not about health. But it's about health, please. And the freedom of business is, of course, from here on out. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court, which, on 18 April, I think, rejected the senator's proposal and said, among other things, that smoking is a means that does not protect public health. It goes back to the main motive of public health. The technical parameters of the whole design were also mentioned here, where we have heard repeatedly that this is not a problem. However, on the other hand, we have heard from the operators themselves that this is a big problem and would be large investment costs. Then, today, there was a very detailed debate about the fact that this is harassment, actually, the smoking when smokers smoke outside. It's harassment around here, which is a really old problem. It's not just now, because such gardens have always been here, as far as I can remember. It's not always been, but it's been a long time, and yet no one cared. It is, of course, a matter that we should be dealing with, certainly. Or not us, but the operators, because the environment can be cultivated. There's also a possible opposite view that young people, when they see a smoker on the street smoking, they say that he's actually in some kind of shame, and it can be repellent for them to even start smoking. So there could be more of those looks. I'm not saying it's crucial to everyone. However, I believe that this too is an interesting reason. [[17.30 hours]] Furthermore, personally, I think that, in essence, the comments and discussion contributions have already been here, I have summed up these several fundamental points. Maybe I didn't quite answer them all. And just in conclusion, let's not break the existing law because it really works or is effective for just one year. Let's wait a while. Some say five years, some say ten years. We just can't say before that this impact was positive or negative, and there's no point in disturbing it now. I believe and believe that, even in this Chamber of Deputies, there are most reasonable people who will vote wisely. And it's normal not to smoke. So thank you all for your support and rejection of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u71	I thank the rapporteur. We have dealt with the final words, so we will move on to the vote. Just in case, I'm gonna have to get some people from the lobby. A motion to dismiss has been submitted. There's a check-out request, so I'll check you out first. Please sign up with your cards. We'll wait for our numbers to settle... Just a little longer... Looks like the numbers have stabilized. So, please, calm down. We will vote on the rejection of this proposal. [[Questions from the O.R. that will be put to the vote.]] I repeat, we will vote on the rejection of the proposal. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of rejection, press the button and raise his hand. Who's against rejection? It's the number 129 vote. Of the 172 Members present, 89 pros, 68 cons. The motion to dismiss has been accepted. I'll wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u72	I couldn't get a voting device. I have several witnesses there, but the superiority is that I'm just stating that the device didn't work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u73	You are questioning the vote, therefore. [[Some Members protest.]] You're not questioning the vote? Okay. Chairman Stanjura reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u74	We're kind of spinning in circles. We had a debate here last week. I don't know who it was anymore. And President Michálek quoted from the Rules of Procedure that if someone's voting device doesn't work, the vote will be repeated without questioning it. We had this debate last week. Well, hopefully we won't repeat it again today. If the device did not actually work, then the voting is repeated from the Rules of Procedure under the law. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u75	Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u76	I think the sentence must sound on the microphone. Since Mr Holík's equipment did not work, and I have no reason not to believe him, I therefore question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u77	Thank you. The vote was therefore called into question because of the malfunction of the voting device. So we're going to repeat it. I think they're all present and logged in. There's an application for check-out again, so I'm checking you out. Please log in with your cards again. I repeat that we will repeat the vote to reject the proposal. I'll wait until... [[Members want to vote on the objection.]] An objection first? So I thought we agreed that in a vote that wasn't working... We didn't, okay. In that case, we shall first vote on the objection if we repeat the vote. Or, please, let someone question the President's procedure, because otherwise we will not move anywhere. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to remind you of our Friday dispute, which took place here during another vote and where you convinced me - contrary to what has always been a good habit here, but it was a good time that Friday, so it turned out - that if someone's voting device doesn't work, the vote is repeated. So, in the sense of our Friday decision - yours, I did not agree to it, but I have submitted to the majority - the President is now right to vote on the matter again immediately. No questioning. If that's not the case, then let's make a deal as to how it's supposed to be. If you remember, then I was accused of not complying with the law. So now I'm going back - yes, I'm trying to follow what's at least agreed here, given that the House is a souvenir and is a lawmaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u79	All right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u80	Regardless of what we are discussing here, and regardless of what we have in this vote, what we are trying to implement here is an extremely dangerous thing. I would like to ask colleagues who interpret the Rules of Procedure in this way to stop doing so. It is extremely unlikely that only one member of the voting system will work precisely. [[Prosecutions from the diaper.]] No, I'm saying it's extremely unlikely. [[- Please, calm down.]] Just like last time. Because I've had my schematics checked on how the individual devices are run. In short, someone may actually be logged in wrong, or there is another problem. [[Ambassador Holík protests.]] But I believe you, but the moment anyone gets up here and starts saying that his voting device isn't working, we're done with some vote of objections. Someone's just gonna shut down here and say it didn't work. We can't prove it. There must be some kind of objective malfunction in the device. We were really looking into it that Friday. It was two different branches. There was probably a problem that there was a little confused vote on, that time period, and either they couldn't turn it on, or they just pressed it at a time when they couldn't squeeze it anymore. There was a human error. This is going to be something similar. Let your colleague tell us now if he's able to log in, if it's on. [[Mr. Holík: Yes.]] So there is no fault and failure of the equipment in the sense that the Rules of Procedure remembered. I would ask President Stanjura, through the President, to be very careful with his own courts, because he is an experienced Member and chairman of the club and he knows that if we go in this direction, we do not do well to the House. Then everyone here will just claim to have a malfunction, and how are we going to verify it? And we will automatically vote over and over again. So if it was a branch malfunction and it was like ten Members in one piece, there would really be a technical glitch, so let's accept it and let's vote again. This was a problem on one voting device that currently works. [[Voices from the diaper.]] We can stop - and I'll ask you not to shout at me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u81	Please, let the Prime Minister speak. We are out of the debate, we can only have priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u82	So on this point, I think, when it comes to the objection of one Member, let us vote on the objection. We're gonna comply, but let's not bring in new systems with equipment malfunctions. It's gonna come back to all of us, and those who are on fire now are gonna regret it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u83	Thank you. Mr Stanjura and Mr Kováčik came forward with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u84	For fellow Members. Technical cannot be when the debate is closed. Oh, by the way. [[A voice from the diaper.]] I would ask Mr Hájek, through the Vice-President, not to yell at me. Section 74, para. 3 if there is a failure of the voting device, the vote must be repeated. I wasn't there when it was accepted, I didn't suggest it. Friday we decided how to proceed. But it doesn't really matter. I've been here for seven years, and every time there was an objection, the House accepted the objection. So what are we fighting about? Let's fight over nothing. I don't think it's worth it. If anyone wants to object, this will not be prohibited by the Rules of Procedure, we will comply with the objection and repeat the vote. That was the only thing. I just wanted to remind you that on Friday we went differently with regard to this particular paragraph, paragraph 3. And I am not here to say which Members I believe or I do not believe that it has worked or that the voting device has not worked, and moreover, Mr President, through the Vice-President, it is very difficult to prove something that cannot be done. Prove your voting device didn't work. I don't know how. I'm just saying, it wasn't Friday or today from our club, but this argument is useless. If you insist on voting, and there has already been a proposal to be voted on, I say, the objection has always been accepted and the vote has been re-voted. That's it, I think the vote's in 20 seconds. This way we can debate 20 minutes whether we vote or not. It is better for me to comply with the objection and to repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u85	Thank you. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u86	Therefore, with a cool head, Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, I recommend, indeed, what I am saying, that we really return to that practice. We will not extend this by more than ten seconds of vote. I will object to the outcome of the vote, one of the reasons why the House has, as a rule, complied with the objection by voting and the matter is put to the vote again. Let's really get back to it, 'cause otherwise we're gonna have this feud here, this feud. Disunity of interpretation. We're gonna comply with the law, I'm gonna say straight, it's not against the law. It's a technical thing that's worked here for years without problems or significant problems. Please, let's get back to it. I'm suggesting that right now. There someone, Mr Kalousek, I believe, has put the formula for questioning the vote, let us vote on the questioning. I will support the vote on the objection myself, I have always supported it, and then let us decide the matter again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u87	Thank you, too. President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u88	I would like to say here, Mr President, through the Vice-President, one thing. Whether it concerns MPs and MPs from the SPD, or from communists, or from anyone else, I warn you that the person who comes to question the vote is making up. There could be a card error, something could happen. Let's just respect that. The common practice was that if anyone questioned the vote, the House respected this challenge, they voted again. But in the moment when you call someone "I don't trust you that it didn't work out right now," I don't think that's a good practice at that point. Let us respect this way that has been honored here all along.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u89	The Prime Minister is still reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u90	I hope you'll remember after what we're voting on. I would like to strongly oppose what President Bartošek here says. I didn't say for a second that I didn't trust Mr. Holík. Let's hear each other out. I said it could be abused and it's a way to hell, let's not do it. In short, the Rules of Procedure presume that if there is an objective defect on the voting device, this paragraph shall be applied. Right now, the device is working. And Mr Stanjura is right, and that is the thing that every attorney meets, proof of absence is almost impossible to carry out. How can anyone prove he wasn't good at it now that he's doing it? I'll calm the situation. I beg you, let's vote on the objection calmly. Since I've been here for the fifth year, we've always been gentlemen to each other, so we agree to object and move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-004-028.u91	Thank you. If no one else claims priority rights, I'm gonna ask for three minutes of recess at the club presidents' meeting to clarify the procedure so that... [[Loud objections in the O.R.]] I'm gonna make a suggestion, and it's gonna be a contradiction. So I'll talk to the chairman first. [[Time to make a deal.]] Thank you. It was faster, but I'll wait. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] I'll take the liberty of gathering Members, and we'll proceed directly. [[Objection in the O.R. Three minutes!]] Three minutes? I don't have that. Okay, we'll wait until 17.46... It's 17.46. I will ask the Members to take their seats, and we will continue with the adjourned vote. It was agreed that we would return to the old order and vote on the objection first and, if approved, we would repeat the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on our way. I'd like some peace. There was an application for check-out, so I checked you out. Please sign up with your cards again. I repeat, once again, what will be the procedure? We will vote on the objection first and then, if necessary, we will vote on the re-vote. I think that the number of applicants has become quite stable... No, not yet. The number of applicants has stabilized, so we will vote on the objection first, i.e. objecting to the previous vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against the objection? 173 Members were enrolled in the 130 vote, 172 against 1, and the objection was accepted. We shall therefore repeat the vote. I shall repeat once again what vote we shall repeat. We shall repeat the vote on the rejection of the proposal. I don't think there's a need to log out. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of rejection, press the button and raise his hand. Who's against rejection? Thank you. The vote number 131 was signed by 172 Members, for 91, against 68, the motion for a rejection was accepted, and this concludes the discussion of the proposal. [[Loud applause, noise in the hall.]] I thank the rapporteur and thank the appellant. Let's move on. He's been assigned to this day... [[Noise in the hall.]] I'll wait until it's quiet in the hall until everyone who's come to the vote leaves us. [[17.50 hours]] I'm gonna open the last point that's been fixed for today, and that's
