ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u1	172. Ceremonial Reminder October 28, 1918 I will ask that the appellant take the floor, and this is Deputy Prime Minister Petr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to thank the Chamber of Deputies for having accepted our proposal to commemorate our constitutional institutions and symbolically honor the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the first Czechoslovak Republic, the anniversary of the establishment of our modern statehood. I think that this anniversary deserves to be shown in a special way the special importance of this holiday to ourselves, to ourselves and also to the citizens of the Czech Republic on this occasion. We are here, of course, to fight very hard between ourselves, to fight for principles, programs, beliefs that people have sent us here for, but there are opportunities - there are certainly not many such opportunities, but this is one of them - when it is necessary to stop and sign up for what must and should bring us together and to show the citizens of the Czech Republic and themselves here in the Chamber of Deputies that, despite the different views, despite sometimes fundamentally different ideas, what benefits our Republic, what harms it, what makes it greater, what threatens it, despite all these differences, there are several important principles and principles that most of us believe in. I think we can show together that we realize that, thanks to the first Czechoslovak Republic, we are today a modern, self-confident and successful country, that we keep this in mind and that we do not forget it. I think we could also agree that it was freedom, democracy, humanism that was the fundamental ethos of the first republic in its creation a hundred years ago, and that they were the success of the then personalities, great personalities, but also ordinary people, and the common achievements of our entire independent state. I think that those of us - and I hope, believe, I am sure that this is a vast majority in this hall - who appreciate these principles, realize that we have been able to return to them recently thanks to the founders of statehood, thanks to the work they have created, and thanks to their legacy. And I would say that we can also agree on other things that include the draft of the brief declaration that we have prepared, and that we do not just want to refer to it, but that we also want to follow up that we do not just want to make a solemn toast under the portrait of President Masaryk and other founders, but that we appreciate their challenge, which is coming to us throughout the century. [[9.10 hours]] I am talking about the Czechoslovak Republic being a modern, democratic and economically advanced state for its time. It was one of the most prosperous countries in Europe and the world, one of the ten most developed. The whole world knew the products of the Czechoslovak industry at that time. Our personalities had respect both at home and abroad, our social system and democracy were a high-quality brand in their day and our diplomacy had a weight in the world. A hundred years ago October 28th, the existence of our state began with a statement that you all know: The independent state of Czechoslovakia entered into life. Let our goal, then, come to life today, return to the republic the high ambitions that were a hundred years ago that its founders had a hundred years ago. And I think that this may also be a challenge for all of us, a challenge that we can agree on on this big and solemn anniversary, and that this is a challenge that makes sense to sign up for. Dear House, ladies and gentlemen, in this sense and in this spirit and with the knowledge of the most basic common denominator, we have prepared a brief text of the Declaration of the Chamber of Deputies, which I will introduce you to at the end of my speech. The text of the Declaration reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, on the occasion of the centenary of the founding of the Czechoslovak Republic, announces its legacy on 28 October 1918 and appreciates the successful efforts made by the representatives of our country leading to the establishment of the independent Czechoslovak Republic. It considers the democratic character of the state on the basis of which the first Republic was built as a fundamental pillar of the modern Czech Republic. It proposes that this anniversary should serve to strengthen the national pride and ambition of the Czech Republic to be among the most successful countries in the world." Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this text of the Declaration will be approved together shortly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u3	Thank you. I will now start a general debate. I would like to inform all Members that it was agreed on the Gremium between the club presidents that one speaker will perform for each club according to the size of the club, in case the criterion is indecisive the result in the elections, so the order is fair, at a limited time. Furthermore, we will not extend the debate in any way; this solemn declaration, a declaration which we would subsequently approve, would be re-read in a detailed debate. Now, I'm going to ask for a change in the management of the meeting, because I'm going to speak for the Yes Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u4	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. The President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček has the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to be a little more festive. It's gonna be a little tasting for our big Sunday holiday on October 28th. Our country has been celebrating for 100 years. She's changed a lot in that time. It has a different size, from that century our country was free in fact only half the time and de facto today we live in the fourth Republic, with two totalitarian regimes. But it's still our homeland, it's the Republic of Masaryk, which I say is not only a territory, the country is above all a place in the heart, a place that would otherwise be empty. Our first president said that states have maintained the ideals they were born from. The ideals of the first republic survived both Nazism and communism, passed from generation to generation, and now it is up to us to hand them over to our children. It is our duty to give them love for their country and respect for the ideals of humanity, democracy and freedom, because our republic was founded a hundred years ago primarily as an area of these values. It needs to be remembered over and over again. Only a state that is based on respect for such values deserves to be called homeland. Only such a state can citizens see as their own, not as something foreign. Only if we can assign these common values to daily confrontations can we preserve the ideals from which our country was born. For such a state that stands on the ideals of humanity, freedom and democracy, many fought and died on the battlefields of World War I and II, in the Nazi and communist camps. And even today, when we live in peace at home, our soldiers are fighting for these ideals and dying in foreign missions. We can never be grateful to them for that. They're volunteering to make the ultimate sacrifice. Please remember their families and loved ones. Today, often, and often rightly, it criticizes the screaming and personal attacks on the political scene, but even the first Republic was not different in that sense. President Masaryk often urged the parties to be closer together and reminded that democracy is a debate. We just can't avoid disputes. If there's something we want to do, if there's anything we want to do for people, it's something we need to talk about. But it's important to know that there's something else besides different opinions and subjective truths, and that's our country. I am convinced that despite all imperfections, despite all arguments, we all carry our Czech country in our heart. When it comes to something, when it comes to defending our national interests, we can finally unite. Sometimes it takes a long time and sometimes we don't want to. Sometimes the desire to kind of rub it in, rub it on the opponent's face, but in the end, there's always enough consensus, whether it's foreign missions, the promotion of our opinion in the European Union, or the resolution of current threats such as migration or terrorism. In the end, we can always throw away party shirts and pull together a national rope. I believe this is what shows that the hundred years were not wasted. Although many of them were bitter and bitter, just in the hardest times, people remember what their country meant to them. Today we are probably living in the happiest period of our national history. In good times, we do not feel such a strong need to remember what our country, our democratic and free republic, means to us. It's nice to remember at least on a holiday day like this or like Sunday, October 28. It is appropriate for each of us to say in spirit and for himself what he is willing to do for his country. National autonomy, freedom and democracy are not obvious, and our sad experiences of the past century prove it. As I have already mentioned, we are obliged to preserve the values of our Republic and pass them on to our children, especially when we have such ideal conditions. Our ancestors were often not so lucky. We've lived in freedom for almost 30 years. The First Republic has only been given 20 years. What must we do to preserve our values and our free and democratic homeland? Nothing big to start with. President osvoboditel said the most important thing is a small day's work. And the basis of a small day-to-day work for democracy is the willingness not only to listen but also to listen. The simple Masarykův slogan that democracy is a debate is brilliant and still valid. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's keep arguing about solving everyday problems, but let's put up with each other's opinion and try to understand that even though he thinks otherwise than we do, he ultimately cares about the same thing - our common homeland. This is the best way to honor a hundred years of our republic and its founder. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u6	I thank the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Vondráček. It is now Mr. Chairman Ivan Bartoš's turn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u7	Our esteemed colleagues, colleagues, government, citizens, with the anniversary of the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the independent state of Bohemia and Slovaks, we remember not only the very act of establishing it, but especially those who sought and sought a free and democratic society. But the history of our country is not only written by the great heroes we know from the textbooks, but also hundreds of thousands, and I believe that more than millions of people who, regardless of whether there is a time of peace or war, whether freedom is real or just for the eye, whether the time is good or evil, live and live their lives in truth and justice. My everyday lives. People who devote their energy and care not only to their children but also to their neighbors through their daily commitment to life, work, family and society. All these people make up what I personally understand as a nation, a republic and civil society. And we are more connected than language and more than just our Czech boiler. [[9.20 hours]] Everything that grows can only grow out of care and love. We each build a common humanity temple with our work on ourselves, humanity and compassion. The more we apply these values to ourselves, the less room will be left for dictators and oligarchs. A grown-up society can do without them. We can face our problems and problems of all our citizens without them. From the smallest and youngest to the oldest, openly, without prejudice and hatred. I therefore wish us more cooperation and less games on winners and losers. We remember 100 years of republic as a hundred years of efforts to make a better life for all of us. And I believe, and I hope that I am not alone, that for the next hundred years we will be able to live completely in freedom, without oppression as an educated, free and digitally connected society. Let's wish everyone the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u8	Thank you. And now I'm going to ask Vice-President Tomio Okamura to perform for the SPD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u9	Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, when we commemorate the anniversary of the founding of our Czechoslovak Republic, we cannot do so without reminding the father of the founder of President Masaryk, ideas and principles that he has enforced until death. First of all, the founder's president emphasized the idea: states maintain the ideals from which they were born. His second crucial credo was the belief that manhood was an organization of nations, not states. The state is something artificial, historical, the nation is something natural. The fight of our legionaries against the Austrian-Hungarian monarchy for the national Czech and Slovak state was a national patriotic struggle. Our legionnaires fought and died for the idea of their own national state, which would be democratic and socially just. If any of us want to in any way follow or honor the victims of men and women who have fallen for the modern Czechoslovak state, it must be borne in mind that if we honor the victims of all who have fallen for the construction and subsequent maintenance of our state, we too must fight for our peoples, for democracy and for justice, not only social but justice in all areas of our country's life. Our legionnaires fought for the sovereignty of our country, and for me personally, it means a commitment to us all descendants and heirs of those who built our republic, a binding obligation to fight for the sovereignty of our country. Masaryk, among other things, wrote: Being international does not mean being anti-national. I believe that, as Czech and Moravian patriots, we naturally respect the same rights and pride of all other nations. We also honor the right to have our own national states in historical borders without, in any way, hindering our right to protect the sovereignty of our national state within our historical borders. Ladies and gentlemen, whenever we think about our country, let us also think about how our decisions and actions would be perceived by those who have freed our peoples from the dictation of power, which has kept us from sovereignty for three centuries in a row and worked intently to denationalize our nations in the name of a supranational whole. Respect for our country, for those who built it, should not be shown merely by formal public acts, by laying wreaths. Let us be Czech and Moravian patriots in action, in everyday life not only about anniversaries and mouths. Honor and respect for the memory of those who fought for our republic for our nations, honor and respect for those who gave their lives for our country and its sovereignty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u10	I thank you and will now ask for the speech of Mr. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr. Vojtěch Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u11	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I think this is a very festive moment and the reminder of October 28 has a sense for all of us. It was only a few people who had the courage to go around the world in 1918, to go around those who had the opportunity to make a decision at the time, and to agree with them that a common state of Čech and Slovák would be established. They had to find sufficient political support and the ability to build it. It is not only necessary to thank them for this, but also to remember that it was nothing simple. They needed our people in different states of the world, they needed Wilson to do it, they needed the brestlitevský peace to make people realize that it was possible to build something new. And after the war that was called the Great War, only later did we find out that it was World War I, so there was another conflict, to find enough ability to create this state. We celebrate the creation of Czechoslovakia and celebrate it as the Czech Republic and I am happy that we celebrate it together as the founding of Czechoslovakia and with Slovák. We have broken up and maybe it is an example for the whole of Europe that divorce can also be cultural. In 1992, I did not give up and witnessed how, step by step, Čech and Slovák were able to build their future alongside each other as friendly nations. Not everyone has. And so I believe that Čech, Moravan, Slezan, Slovák are nations that have a future throughout Europe, all over the world. We've got something to be proud of because we've been able to make anything from pin to nuclear power plant that we want. It is necessary not to set small goals, but to set goals that will lead our nations to the fact that not only will we not disappear, that we will not be nationalised, but that we will be a permanent part of the world community. I am convinced that we can do this and that we can do it if we deal with our fights here, but we will always be able to defend Czech national interest anywhere beyond the borders of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u12	Thank you. And now I give the floor to Prime Minister Jan Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a hundred years have been a very long time in the modern world, and a lot has changed since 1918. Over the centuries, we experienced two totalities, our state was changing, both in terms of the size of the territory and the regime, but something survived the changes. This is the ideal of democracy. So if we are to really remember something from the legacy of October 28, 1918, it is the first city to believe in democracy. Faith that this country's governance belongs to the people, the belief that the political institutions of democracy are superior to personal and particular interests, faith in constitutionality, rule of law and justice. Faith in the solidarity of the community, the belief that the state should measure each of the same subways regardless of its sex, race, religion, or opinions. The democratic ideal in which Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk and other founders of our state believed, for which they worked and for which many of our people died, is what really makes up our state. If people didn't believe in this ideal, there wouldn't be legionnaires, there wouldn't be resistance fighters, and there wouldn't be fighters on foreign missions today. [[9.30 hours]] Masaryk confessed that his hardest decision was to give orders to fight because he knew that for many legionnaires it would mean injury or even death. He did so knowing that it was necessary for the creation and free existence of our state. And we will never be able to express sufficient gratitude to those who have sacrificed the highest, the heroes of all three resistances, men and women who are fighting for the Czech Republic today and are putting their lives on the line both in Afghanistan and in other countries. Please don't forget them. Let us not forget their families and their loved ones. He deserves our respect. Also, let us not forget what these brave men and women fought for and fought for. They're fighting for our state, the ideal of democracy. This ideal was trampled many times, Nazi occupations came, communist totalitarianism, but we moved away from Masarykův's ideal even under the so-called Second Republic. And even those three postwar years weren't a period of democracy. And not by chance this period ended in breaking up traditional parties. Democracy is not possible without democrats. The weakening of democratic parties is always linked to the weakening of democracy itself. However, I believe that the democratic ideal of the Masaryk state has endured all these tragic twists, and today we are all living in a much happier time. We have freedom, we have democracy, our security is as secure as ever in history. But that does not at least deprive us of the obligation to defend and protect the democratic ideal. We must fight extremism, hatred, racism, but also selfishness, indifference to others, corruption. We must fight populism, demagogy and lies. Today, as in the first Republic, we are experiencing economic success. But without democracy, all such success is an illusion. That's what we've learned in the past. The destruction or discrediting of democratic institutions such as parliament and parties, police, courts, freedom of expression and independent media leads to the destruction of morality, loss of security and ultimately to the decline of prosperity. So let us stick to the ideas that created and still form our state, the ideas of democracy. As Masaryk said, democracy is made by democrats, better democracy is made by better democrats. So let us not only be democrats but better democrats and celebrate together with dignity 100 years of our republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u14	Thank you. And I ask for the floor of Mr Pavel Bělobrádek for the KDU-ČSL club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u15	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, states are being maintained by the ideals from which they were born. We've heard it here before, even though it's repeated so often, it's becoming a cliché. Yet they still pay and they will continue to pay, because when they have stopped paying, I hope that they will continue to pay when they have stopped, the second Czechoslovak Republic with all its shortcomings, with all its denials of the very ideals. If the first Republic of politics dies by moving away from those principles on which 17 November was laid and the events of the return of freedom and democracy to Czechoslovakia, then a second Republic of politics will be created. And I wouldn't want that at all. I think we must also recall that the Czechoslovak Republic was created in a situation where Czechoslovakia was a state of multi-nationality, a state Masaryk wanted to turn into such a Switzerland, where the political Czechoslovak nation will include Čech, Němec, Slovák, Maďar, Polák and other nationalities. This has failed completely, but Masarykův "not Ježíš, but Caesar" is still valid, which means that the Democrat must also have some moral principles, moral values, that he must make decisions in substance, but also in principle, not just to reach for power, which then becomes not just by means, but by what is going on here, whose achievement is at stake. And I think it is very important that we always realize that "Ježíš, not Caesar" is always the temptation of individual political parties and leaders to put themselves in a situation that will clearly result from the fact that we have someone here who decides for us who controls everything. I am convinced that our modern Czechoslovak state was born to have freedom here, to have justice here. And to that ideal, we always have to cling. The first, second, third resistance, all of these people who have contributed to having a democratic republic and now we have it again deserve our respect and our gratitude. All these victims must not be in vain. And they must not be in vain just by not letting the ideals of how freedom returned to Czechoslovakia be trampled. To win instead of love and truth lies and hate. Democracy, as Masaryk understands it, must contain humanity, high morals, critical thinking, civil society, free media. Democratic institutions without content only become empty skin. Masaryk knew that there was a need for democrats, so he also knew that there was a need for a genuine democratic folk policy to be made. We have a completely different situation now. We are integrated in NATO, in the European Union, and from this point of view we also need to make much more use of the options we have. Masaryk and Havel have given our republic an international dimension, and I believe that even though neither of them was infallible, even though neither of them avoided mistakes, they still have to be a role model for us. The last thing I want to say about the legacy of October 28th is that there is no contradiction between patriotism, love of country and humanity. But between modern nationalism and humanity is, as Masaryk said. And that, unfortunately, is current today, because love for the country means love for your own nation, but it doesn't mean hate for others. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u16	Thank you. I will now ask for Mr Karel Schwarzenberg's speech, who will perform for the TOP 09 Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u17	Mr President, honourable Members, we remember here a hundred years since the founding of the first Czechoslovak Republic. I am afraid that I am the last Member to be born in this Republic and have experienced its entire destinies from the Protectorate through February and so on. The development, as I was saying, has ever been... I remember the enthusiasm after the uprising in 1945, when we regained our freedom. I remember the depression that fell on everyone after February when I saw the militia march on the National Avenue. I remember, a little out of purely Czech affairs, as I stood and helped on Hungarian borders in 1956 in November. And when they asked me where I was from, I said Bohemia, a slight contemptible laughter. And what do you do? We're bleeding and you're shutting up. [[9.40 hours]] Two years later, I was in Brussels in our famous pavilion, which was really the most interesting and beautiful in the whole world exhibition in Brussels. I remember walking there and the lady from the pavilion accompanied me, explaining everything, speaking English to me, and I was thrilled. Indeed, at that time, man was proud of our state and our nation and the republic. But I remember, too, when I answered her in Czech, she disappeared. And by doing so, I was transferred to the land of reality to know what Czechoslovakia was then. She wasn't allowed to talk to anyone who was suspected of being an immigrant. Then 1968 with all euphoria before and cruel fall in August and beautiful days in November 1989 and renewed freedom. But I also remember when in 1992 the President of the Republic of Václav Havel sent me to Prague Castle to withdraw the flag of the last Czechoslovak president. I admit I couldn't resist tears back then. Czechoslovakia has gone into history, the Czech Republic has been established. And now we're thinking about what was a hundred years ago. It was a very civilized coup. Let us be grateful to Emperor Karel for his good memory, who forbade the use of violence. So the transfer of power in Prague and everywhere went perfectly calm, without violence. Only then came Masaryk, Beneš, tried to return Štefánik from abroad. The coup was made here, men on October 28th, and it was a civilized way it happened. Now, too. We fell apart without being too interested. Our Czechoslovak Republic has vanished. Our Czech Republic today is something else. That we have abandoned the ideals of the Czechoslovak nation, the Czechoslovak state, please understand, history has changed. But the other ideas on which this state was built, and Masaryk reminded us that the states flourished and lacked the basic ideas on which they were built. One of the great ideas of Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk was Europeanism. When you read his Talks, articles and so on, you can see that he was interested in how he supported Coudenhove-Kalergi and so on. However, we are decorated here rather by not taking an interest in Europe. Yes, we're getting funding, with enthusiasm. But we contribute as little as possible and with solidarity in our country it is also not general. Second, humanity. Masaryk left us the main message - humanity. Yes, we just proved our humanity when we refused to accept those orphans into the Czech Republic from the wars so that they could grow up in peace. We have abandoned all ideals, and we have only the national selfishness on which we are building our modern state. I'm afraid that's a rather poor basis for the state. I fear that if we abandon all the ideas on which our state, our republic was built, if we do not prove to Europe or the world that we are useful to something, we are also not helping our neighbours. And to be honest, to our own nation, watching as we destroy our own land, which is a terrible old peasant Schwarzenberg will tell you, that's a really grim look when we look at how old houses in our cities have been dug up and actually the core of Prague is no longer inhabited. When we look at this whole development, what good are we doing for our own population? What good is this state today? Let's ask. And I assure you, if we do not prove useful to our own nation, our neighbours, Europe and the world, I fear for the fate of our state, so I fear for our next independent existence. Caveant consules ne quid detrimenti respublica capiat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u18	I would like to thank you and ask that Mr Gazdík speak for the Mayors and Independents Club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u19	Mr President, my dear government, my fellow Members, the honourable legislature, a hundred years since the creation of a separate Czechoslovakia, a hundred years of modern statehood. That's what everyone who lives in this country is thinking about these days. And it doesn't matter that the Czech Republic is no longer a state within those borders and with the nationalities within which it started just a hundred years ago. If we think about it further, then a hundred years is a time period that goes beyond the time of life that is measured by our earthly existence of each of us. It is in this, not in the delightful roundness of this anniversary that I see the huge symbolism of this year's jubilee. That's what I'm feeling about. Overcoming the state over us mortal people. These hundred years symbolically as a holiday belong to all of us. It belongs to a few of us who were born in 1918 or even before and have lived their lives in this country or with this country, but also to most of us who will never live to be 100 years old. In these important days, we need to remember those who have sacrificed their lives. A hundred years ago, decades ago, maybe a few days ago. Just so that the story that began in 1918 could go on and have meaning. When I mentioned the meaning, although a hundred years like any other important anniversary need to be celebrated, looked back and bilanced, I think that these are the days that we should think most about our loved ones, our ancestors, those who are closest to us or those who are in some way important to each of us, because in those hundred years of our state we have done something that we are right to be proud of. More important than how long something exists is the content of existence and its meaning. We remember the form on round anniversaries. But we make sense all the time. We make that sense, with Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, in everyday small work. Sometimes we do better, sometimes worse, and it doesn't matter if it's the government or the last citizen in the most remote community. The point is the continuity of everyday honest work. This is and will be the red thread on which the individual historical milestones are only larger or smaller nodes. I wish to all of us that the fibers of this imaginary thread are untangled as little as possible, I wish to the legislators that we should help in the event that these threads are twisted as quickly as possible, and I thank all those who do their little daily work honestly and with their hearts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u20	I am now ending the general debate without the final words after the agreement. It was only now that I realized that I was actually the rapporteur when I first spoke in the general debate. We will proceed to the debate in detail. I would ask Vice-President Fiala to repeat the resolution in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u21	Yes. The motion for a resolution is as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Czechoslovak Republic: - He reports on the legacy of 28 October 1918 and appreciates the successful efforts of representatives of our country leading to the establishment of a separate Czechoslovak Republic. - Considers the democratic character of the state on the basis of which the first Republic was built as a fundamental pillar of the modern Czech Republic. - It proposes that this anniversary should serve to strengthen the national pride and ambition of the Czech Republic to be among the most successful countries in the world."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-001-172.u22	Thank you. I shall conclude a detailed debate and we shall now proceed to the vote. I'm registering the logout request. We've got a steady count. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution. Who's against it? It's serial number 66. 172 Members are registered, for 172 Members, against no one. We can clap. [[Let's hear it for the whole room.]] Thank you all. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved, and I conclude this point. Allow me to read the apology of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček, who apologizes throughout today's day for working reasons. I also want to read the cancellation of Mr Martin Kolovratník's apology from today. The Member is present. Initiating next item and that is item number
