ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-000-000.u1	It is 9:00 a.m., good morning, honourable Members, honourable Member of the Government. [[Only Minister Šlechtová is in the hall]] We can continue, thank you. I begin on the third day of the 12th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and welcome to all of you. I'll ask you to sign up with your cards or tell me who votes with the spare card. I'll ask you to settle down in your seats. I am saying that these Members and Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting - a long list today. Ivan Bartoš until 14.30 for family reasons, Jiří Běhounek for work reasons, Andrea Brzobohatá for work reasons. Petr Dolínek until 10.45 for work Ondráček, František Elfmark for work reasons, Petr Gazdík for work Pávek, Josef Hájek for foreign travel Antonín, Tomáš Staněk for 14 hours for work reasons, Jaroslav Holík for foreign Vích Radovan, Tereza Hyťhová for 13 hours for personal Zlesák, Milan Chovanec for health reasons, Monika Jarošová for health Vlastimil, Válek Jelínek for work reasons, Marian Jurečka for foreign travel reasons, Kasal Krájza for health Vojtěch, Kolovratník Pikal for work reasons, František Kopřiva for work Špičák, Pavel Plzák for health reasons, Věra Kovářová for health reasons, Robert králíček for work reasons, Karel Maříková for personal Valenta, Jana Levová for work Mikuláš, Řehounek Lipavskýý for Patrik Peksa, for work Zuzana, Czech Republic Zahradníková Majerová without giving reasons, Jiřík for a foreign trip, Jiřík for work reasons, Jiřík From the members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš until 14.30 for work reasons, Klára Dostálová due to foreign travel, Lubomír Metnar due to foreign travel, Jaroslava Němcová until 11 o'clock and then for afternoon meetings for work reasons, Robert Pelikán until 11 o'clock for work reasons, Robert Plaga for work reasons, Martin Stropnickýý for health reasons, Ilja Šmíd within 13 o'clock for work reasons, Adam Vojtěch until 11 o'clock for work reasons. In addition, Mr Radek Koten's apology came from 12 to the end of the day for working reasons. We've dealt with the apologies, and we're good to go. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 67, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted no later than 11 o'clock and their draw will take place at 11.30 p.m. So we're going to go to a point.
