ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-002-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services and the conditions for their provision (Health Services Act), as amended /German press 262/ - first reading I will ask that the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch and the rapporteur for first reading Miloslav Janulík take their seats at the rapporteur's table. Under the authority of the government, this proposal will be made by the Minister of Health, and I will give him my word when it's quiet here. I ask the House for peace. If you discuss things other than the government's drug bill, please in the foyer. Mr. Secretary, wait a little longer. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to have the peace of mind here for a dignified discussion of the bill so that stenographers can record individual speeches at all, because this is not possible in the noise. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-002-021.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you, at this point, an amendment to the Act on Medicines, the subject of which is the implementation of four European Union regulations. First of all, it is a Commission Regulation of 2 October 2015 which addresses the issue of the rules on protective elements on the packaging of medicinal products for human use. The adaptation of the Czech rule of law to this regulation establishes and initiates a system for verifying the authenticity of medicines throughout the European Union. Accordingly, uniform rules are laid down for the introduction of safeguards for the verification of the authenticity and integrity of the packaging of medicinal products, in particular the characteristics and technical specifications of one of the protective elements, i.e. the unique identifier, the means and scope of the verification of the safety features by the individual bodies concerned, and the establishment and management of a storage system containing information on the protective elements. The protective elements shall be provided in accordance with the Regulation on the protective constituents of the packaging of medicinal products for human use subject to medical prescription and the packaging of medicinal products not subject to medical prescription, provided that they are listed in Annex 2 to the Regulation on protective constituents. In connection with the verification of these unique identifiers, a system of so-called repositories has been established where individual identifiers will be stored, which will subsequently be verified when dispensing the medicinal product via the electronic system. These storages will work on two levels. On the one hand, at European level and, on the other hand, at national level. It is through these storage sites that the identifiers of individual medicinal products for human use will be verified. At national level, the repository is prepared through the National Agency for Authentication of Drugs, so-called NOOL. Storage systems are established according to the regulation and the costs are borne by manufacturers and marketing authorisation holders, in other words pharmaceutical companies that finance this whole thing. Verification of the authenticity of medicinal products and the packaging of medicinal products under the Regulation on protective elements is ensured by the latest articles of the supply chain which issue these medicinal products to the public, i.e. in the vast majority of cases they will be pharmacies. However, the regulation allows Member States to anchor a different regime for specific situations. The Czech Republic has therefore taken advantage of the possibility to modify differently the rules for the verification of medicinal products that are distributed for the purpose of regular, exceptional and special, namely compulsory, vaccination, and optional but paid vaccination, where verification of the authenticity and elimination of the unique identifier will be the duty of the distributor, not the doctor. The aim of the proposal is to contribute to a uniform European policy of protection of patients against counterfeit medicines, where in many countries of the European Union this is a problem and the problem is becoming important, even though counterfeit medicines have not yet occurred to a large extent in the Czech Republic. We are not significantly affected by this problem, but this cannot be excluded, of course, because we are moving on the free market within the European Union, so that the Czech Republic could also relate to this problem in the future. This is why it is actually addressed at a European level and within the pan-European repository of these identifiers, which will be verified in this way. [[15.50 hours]] There are also changes in this amendment in response to the adoption of EU implementing legislation on clinical trials of medicinal products. This concerns rules for the implementation of inspection procedures for good clinical practice, the establishment of principles and guidelines for good manufacturing practice for assessed medicinal products for human use as well as principles and guidelines for good manufacturing practice for medicinal products for human use. These provisions concern the field of clinical trials, where the rules for the interpretation of inspection activities of the foreseen regulations are laid down, on clinical trials. The system of quality of inspections is being dealt with, within the Czech Republic it is entrusted to the State Institute for Drug Control. On the other hand, the rules for good manufacturing practice, particularly in relation to the control, quality and performance of this control, are extended and the application of the rules of good manufacturing practice to imports of medicinal products for human use from third countries is extended. The draft law was discussed by the Government at its meeting on 22 August 2018. In view of the need to ensure the effectiveness of this standard on 9 February 2019, I would also like to ask, and I will also do so within the framework of the debate, that the deadline for discussing this amendment should be reduced to 20 days. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me summarize that the aim of this amendment is to ensure, as far as possible, the safety of medicinal products in the Czech Republic, within the framework of the implementation of EU regulations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-002-021.u3	I thank the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch and ask Mr Miloslav Janulík's rapporteur to take the floor with his report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-002-021.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, we have heard that this is a pure implementation amendment with a term of 9. 2. 2019, so for this reason, I think there is nothing to add to the Minister's comprehensive report. Just to give you an idea of what it's actually going to look like in practice, each box of drugs will have its 2D identification code. It'll probably be some QR code and already from production, so it'll be clear about every box of her destiny. That means, from the manufacturer to the distributor to the pharmacy, when he gets to a specific patient, which, of course, hasn't been possible enough until now. I think it offers many, many positives. There are a lot of conventions that could contribute both to safety, because of course the safety of patients comes first. Here I would just add that in our distribution network or in our pharmacies we don't actually meet counterfeits, that it's not a problem even close to our state. Of course the Internet, there is already significantly worse with counterfeits. But even those less conscious fellow citizens who are really willing to buy drugs on the Internet, which is very, very weird, but it's just happening, and they pay a lot of money for it, so it can make it possible to control that they can then get into the pharmacy and see if the code that's on the box is really really believable and if what they bought is really what it's supposed to be. That's one possibility. So the positives are significant. Of course, there are some negatives. But it's not like that, of course... The financial participation is transferred to producers of pharmaceutical companies, partly in specified cases and distributors. But nevertheless, I don't think it's so dramatic about pharmacies, so basically with comma or virtually. As such, they are still working with the codes today for their own reasons, when all medicines that come to the pharmacy are usually called barcodes for the pharmacist to know when dispensing, and of course it makes it easier to manipulate, inventory, everything else. So in that sense, I don't think it's a dramatic shift for the drugstores or an expression for any increase... some financial difficulty, because it would be the most necessary exchange of code readers, which we are talking about the order of a maximum of several thousand crowns. So for all the above reasons, I recommend that this law be released for further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-002-021.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, and I am opening a general debate. I'm saying I don't have a written application for it yet. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. The Minister with priority rights, although there is no other registration yet. So, Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-002-021.u6	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Therefore, in view of the need to ensure the effectiveness of this standard on 9 February 2019, as I mentioned in my introductory words, I would like to ask that the deadline for the discussion of this amendment be reduced to 20 days. I think that's enough time to discuss this proposal. It must be seen that the time limit really has to be respected. And since this is a pure implementation, it means that there really is nothing extra that we, as a ministry or as a government, would suggest beyond the implementation of the four regulations, so I think that the deadline is sufficient, so I would suggest this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-002-021.u7	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The proposal is made properly in the debate. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. There was no motion to return or refuse. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee? I can't see. We will therefore vote on the commandment to the guarantee committee. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the Commandment of the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee in the vote number 37, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 37 of 132 present for 125. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a proposal to order other committees? I don't see anybody, so we're not voting on another committee. I am merely saying that there was a proposal in the debate to shorten the committee's discussions to 20 days. There was no objection to this procedure. So we can vote this in the 38 vote I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 38 of Members of 151 for 127, against 3. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that the proposal for committee discussions has been reduced to 20 days. I thank the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I note that we have discussed the draft law on medicines, when the guarantee committee is the Committee on Health and the time limit for discussion is 20 days. The next item is
