ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u1	1. Proposal by Members of Vladimír Koníček, Stanislav Grospič and others for the Act amending Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies and on the amendment of certain laws (Act on property settlement with churches and religious societies) and Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended /German press 38/ - Second reading On 13 November 2018, at the 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the general debate, we re-examined this House's press. I recall that the resolutions of the Committee on Budgets and the Constitutional Legal Committee were delivered as House prints 38/2 to 38/6. I would like to ask Mr Stanislav Grospič and Mr Milan Feranec, Mr Milan Feranec, to sit at the rapporteur's table. We will continue with the interrupted general debate. I have a factual point here - Mr Klaus. That's a deal? [[Yes.]] We have a general debate. Mr Klaus is here with the first in fact. [[Restlessness in the room.]] I will make this point possible because we are continuing the interrupted debate, where there have been applications and a number of Members have already spoken. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u2	I don't have a priority right, so I couldn't sign up before. I would like to respond to Mr Kováčik's speech, and I do not understand such an attack on truck drivers. I mean, when you're a truck driver, you're all right, you've got winter tires, and you come to some hill where there's a Maďar on a summer tire that can't go, so you can't go around it? Do you really want to design the law to ban drivers from getting into the left lane at all? It's hard work. I didn't understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. I will ask all those discussing to stick to the subject of the property settlement law with the churches. However, factual remarks have slightly multiplied. Mr Kováčik, then Mr Feri. And I really urge you to stick to the subject of property settlement. I don't want to get to the point where I'm taking someone's word away. Let's try to respect the subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will support your request, and I will ask everyone to stick to why this meeting has been convened, and that is the second reading of the bill. With regard to the transport matters brought here by Mr Benešík and on which we have all responded positively to the subject, we will really save it for next week or next week. The Aviza I've put in for this is a deal. And I'm glad that the ODS is already starting to come up with the first specific offers or suggestions to discuss how hard the truck driver's work is. I am, of course, prepared and have many friends among truck drivers, and this stimulus is from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. A point of fact - Mr Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that the agenda for the meeting has been approved, I would like to read, on behalf of the TOP 09, a proposal to reject this bill at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. That's how we dealt with the facts. Mr. Jiří Mašek, to whom I hereby give the floor, is the first to be heard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, how simple an adjustment is offered to us by cutting a few words in the law, the result minus 400 million of the 2 billion paid by the Czech state per year to the Church for 30 years, all under the supervision of mostly the atheistic public, in which sympathy with churches that have been damaged by the Communist regime after 1948, with feelings of unduly overvalued church demands for restitution at the expense of the Czech state and by all taxpayers. And where is the truth? As always, somewhere in the middle. Allow me to recap. What happened after the Velvet Revolution? Between 1991 and 2011, the number of believers dropped by 1.2 million to almost 32 percent of the population, 11 percent of them claiming to the Roman Catholic Church, and less than 1% of the other churches. In this context, the question is what is the development of the services that churches provide to companies in the Czech Republic. It was quite different in 1928, when the first land reform culminated with a plot of property to churches over 150 ha ore, respectively. 250 ha of all agricultural land, with the support of President Masaryk, whom we all refer to today. Everything took place on the basis of the democratically accepted trade law No. 215/1919. In 1928 80 per cent of the Roman Catholic Church, 7 per cent of the Evangelists, and so on, reported to the Roman Catholic Church. There was only 5 percent of the population without religion at the time. Nevertheless, reform has been adopted. The reform took place intensively between 1923 and 1927. The land was redistributed to small-scale farmers using ration law No. 81/1919 and Act No. 329/1919. Everything's legal. The churches remained the estates above 150 ha ore, respectively. under 250 of all land. [[Under?]] The total total of the churches owned by the land fell from 234 000 ha in 1919 to 68 000 ha in 1927. This was the case until 1947 when Law No. 142/1947 to revise the first land reform of 1919 and it was agreed to leave a maximum of 50 hectares of size and divide the area above this threshold to small farmers. At that time, a price was also established to compensate for the construction of the average price for the previous 10 years, reduced by 20 per cent. The implementation of this law began immediately in 1947. And if everything had been properly booked, the area of church goods would have fallen from 68,000 ha to 5 203 ha. However, this was interrupted by Victory February and the nationalization of land with an area above one hectare and the churches thus lost another 5,000 hectares of land. However, the above figures show that the extent of the restitution claims of the churches of 2012 is, to put it mildly, inadequate and certainly unlawful, and this concerns both the size of the land used in the restitution and the amount of the compensation for unissued land. It was intended to replace about 63,000 hectares of legal land reform from 1947 with a then proposed average price of 20 percent and compensation for 5,000 hectares of nationalized communists after February 1948. But to cover the demands of the Church of 225 000 ha, the state of 1919 and the first land reform, is indeed a masterpiece, Mr Kalousek, Mr Belbrádka and others, through Mr President. When calculating the compensation under the current legislation of 1947, the compensation for 63 000 hectares in estimate prices per square metre of land for 2012 would be CZK 4 billion, and even in the case of overvalued CZK 44.50 per metre after the calculation under the Act of 1947 it would be a maximum of 24 billion, all of this provided that no land was returned to the church and all was dealt with by reimbursement. However, we have returned much more land than the church was entitled to, and we are still paying 59 billion. It should be noted that this amount also includes compensation for buildings and other property which could not be recovered. In addition to the four-fold overestimate of the claim for recovery and financial settlement, its price was overvalued: 44,50 per metre compared to 7.50 per metre at the time in force. And what about our neighbors? Poland dealt with the settlement with churches of CZK 1,000 per citizen, Hungary of CZK 1,500 per citizen, and in the Czech Republic the settlement with churches exceeds CZK 10,000 per citizen. Citizens of the most atheistic state in Europe have been punished for good. In November 2012, you succeeded in the Chamber of Deputies. To comment on how, it's probably a waste of time today. However, it certainly was not in favour of the citizens of the Czech Republic, but at their expense. Now comes the bill with the possibility of this strange settlement of the state and the churches, which was extremely advantageous for the churches, slightly levelled in favour of the state. We are discussing the possibility of abolishing the relief of churches for non-taxing accepted financial compensation from the state. I will support this regulation, which will at least partially mitigate the damage caused by the State through the adoption of a restitution law, for understandable reasons, and I believe that there will be a majority of us in the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. Your speech raised Mr Výborný's point of order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear government, colleagues, colleagues. Your way to Mr. Mašek. It would deserve a far, far deeper comment, but two things. You mentioned the name Pavel Bělobrádek, Chairman of the KDU-ČSL. It would also be good to look at the history of the creation of the Equalisation Act. Indeed, KDU-ČSL was not in the Chamber of Deputies at that time. But I can guarantee you that if we were here, we would really support this law, because it is a law that corrects the injustices caused by the Communist regime. And when you're dealing with numbers here about how they were or weren't overpriced, and we all know that it was based on a calculation involving independent institutions, it was also subjected to the work of the House Commission, which commissioned an independent audit by Ernst & Young, which stated that the calculation was correct and fair, so it wasn't fair. And you know why it wasn't fair? Because the property, which the Communists after 1948 after February 25th, and the border is absolutely clear, they stole, so the proceeds of the property that went beyond the state for 70 years are not subject to the law at all. And I ask: isn't this injustice that property, forests, land, etc. has brought returns and benefits to the state, and that is not addressed?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. Another party to the debate is Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u12	Mr President, Ministers, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me really get involved in today's debate on property settlement. From the beginning, many shorthanded expressions, many untruths, sometimes lies, purposeful lies, have been heard here since 2012 or in previous years. I want to stress that the bill, the bill that has been approved, is not a new law under the reign of Petr Nečas, quite rightly the people say so, but it is the written law of Mirek Topolánek. It's a little cut, but it's almost identical in context. So it's from the workshop and the pen of those who now claim it, it's like nothing much. This is quite clearly something to be said here. When Ernst & Young and a similar commission were quoted here, it is quite clear that they avoided the fundamental issue of property valuation. Even in the audit report, they made it clear that they did not have the option and did not evaluate it as part of the analysis they carried out, whether it was correct or not. All of this is documented and documented. And that's my appeal, and I didn't want to start tonight's speech here. But I am interested in the debate that has been raised here, or rather the statement by President Bartoš of the Pirates through the President, who called for some background material to be promised to him. Analytical material that could explain and could clarify for pirát how to proceed further within this material relating to religious restitution. So let me draw your attention, colleagues, to the material, because it has been a few years since then, which saw the light of day in the sphere in 2014, where I personally would not have expected it. This property settlement or this law was seized by a law student. A law student took it as his thesis. And to the extent of 200 pages - I would stress, a diploma thesis in the range of 200 pages, which is very much, it would be more consistent with rigorous work, perhaps doctoral rather than diplomacy - took up the analysis of this problem. Yes, it's a student's job, so it's not influenced by any interests, it's not influenced by any, say, the ability to apologize or possibly. the ability to make excuses. And this work very clearly and beautifully describes from the perspective of an uninterested young person the whole development since even the 12th century of property relations between churches and kingdoms, or even. States and States related to Czech territory. I'm only going to quote from the report very briefly, and then I'm going to refer you to its source so you can download it and read it. There is talk that the relationship between the state and the church has always been very, very controversial and very problematic. And he was like a pendulum - on one side very rigorous and very strict, on the other side very relaxed. And there was always a compromise on how to deal with it within the Church and the State. This student has done the work and described it in a very clear way, as it suits the student and belongs, the whole issue of religious restitution and state approach, possibly. citizens on this issue. He did not, of course, avoid very critical passages about 1989. He named them very clearly and set them very clearly and determined where certain matters concerning the historical development of relation to church property were exceeded. Among other things, it also deals with the issues of valuation and at all the issues of this law. Because, in its effect, the law brought together two things that may have been a little problematic since the beginning and for the legal analysis of what would happen or what had happened, even before the Constitutional Court, which it also deals with in this analysis, it was a problem. And that this law, which was adopted in 2012, was not restitution, but contains so-called. the restitution and compensation component. Two elements that were not supposed to be associated in one law in his opinion, because restitution is compensation and compensation, i.e. The separation of the State from the Church is meant to be a separate problem, which in this law was put into one whole, and therefore all the following opponents and others had a problem dealing with it and finding the right solution to do so. Paradoxically, he points out the things that also concern those opposing opinions and commissions that have been set up in all this development. As they approached the material and tried to avoid it - I stress to avoid it - to point to the questions that are on the table today. That means the value of the property, how those values happened, which property was justified, which one wasn't. He points out the Bishop's analysis, and the name fell out with permission, which in 1948 took up an analysis of the church property, which could be based on which property should or should not have been, and how far he could have been involved in the valuation of the assets in 2012. So this work, if you read it and find the time, is definitely worth it. And I think that it will clarify the vast majority of the questions that have been raised here and will clarify the vast majority of the untruths that have appeared over this law over the course of time and which are constantly trying to show the supporters of this proposal as a treatment of the injustices that have happened. It is not so far about the injustices as it is about the state's approach to churches in general. From this interesting point of view, and I am coming to an end, I would like to draw attention to one thing that has arisen from this report, and that there is a constant risk of negotiations before the European Commission. Unlicensed support. Even the Constitutional Court avoided this issue in its reasoning, as well as the analyses that were being processed, are constantly passing by and seeking a clear answer on this matter, whether there has been or has not been support. Because the law also brought together the value of individuals and legal entities. Church legal entities. To whom he treated completely differently, those legal persons other than legal persons who were affected by restitution or, where appropriate, by restitution. replacements. This is another problem brought about by this law. It is in its conclusion that this student summarizes these matters and quite clearly states that the problem is ahead of us and ahead of the future to resolve itself. Paradoxically already in 2014, he pointed out that taxation is one of the ways, quite legitimate and legal ways, as at least in society, that there was some injustice, and he deals with how the law was adopted, how the law was discussed, could be seen as the really fat line behind this issue. Although, as it emphasizes, the pendulum of control, the pendulum of control, or the pendulum of cooperation between the state and the churches, went completely beyond 1989 on that side of the maximum freedom that has never historically been here. Historically, it never was. I would like to stress that. So let me say here that this work, from which I tried to quote and from which I tried to draw your attention, was written by a lawyer today, at that time a student, Petr Karola from Charles University, from the Faculty of Law, from the Department of Constitutional Law. If any of you are interested, I have it in PDF form, I can provide it so that you can read it. And I think he's really gonna answer most of your questions, and it's worth reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u13	That was Mr Leo Luzar. Now here's the actual one. Member Lukáš Černohorský. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u14	Hello, thank you for your word. I, through Mr President, would like to respond to the previous speaker about the analysis that we have requested. The point is that the Treasury Secretary, who is not here right now, claimed that they did such a quick analysis at the Treasury Department, I think it was about September 10th, September 11. And we asked that this analysis be given to us, or that the Ministry of Finance should calculate itself if the Minister claims that it is overpriced, so that it would calculate where and how and how it can be illustrated in detailed figures. Which hasn't happened until now. And that is why, of course, we have no reason to support this law at this time. Because, of course, if no one can show us the relevant numbers, which we think should be the Ministry of Finance, and that may be a good job, but I'd appreciate the numbers from the Ministry of Finance, not from the college students, if they didn't get the background materials and numbers directly from the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u15	Thank you and two more factual ones. So another Mr. Leo Luzar. In the meantime, I'm sorry, I'll read two apologies to read it. Mr Dominik Feri apologises between 10 and 19 o'clock for working reasons, but Mr Feri had a motion to reject it at third reading, which must also be heard in a detailed debate, so now the Member apologizes, so it does not sound like it. And the second apology is that of Mr Jaroslav Bžoch between 11.30 and 14 hours due to the hearing. And a third apology, Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský from 10 to 15 o'clock for work reasons. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me try to answer what has been said here through you. The diploma thesis, to that extent, even addresses the answer to this question. Ernst & Young, in his analysis, offered a government worth about 200 man-year-olds to process such an accurate valuation of property. This was rejected by the government. She didn't go back to that. Maybe that's the mistake and the problem that was there. It also draws attention to the differences in property from historical sources drawing on how much the church actually owned according to church land dignitaries, forests, the size of the hectares we are moving in, and how much it ended up in different parts of the land reform, the first land reform, then after 1948 and beyond. It's quite an interesting reading, and I highly recommend it. You'll find answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u17	With another de facto Mr Marian Jurečka, please. And Mr. Jiří Mašek will prepare himself. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u18	Thank you. Here, on a factual note from Mr Černohorská, there was one important point that I would like to follow up on the procedural proposal. I think that, in such a serious situation, the Minister of Finance should be present and present here at the same time the existing or non-existent report referred to and referred to by some of the members of the Government in the light of some inadequacy and some doubts in terms of the value of the assets that could not have been issued, which had been made a financial compensation. So I'm giving the procedural proposal to interrupt this meeting in the presence of the Minister of Finance, who should present this report here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u19	This is a procedural proposal, so we will vote on it immediately. I'll call you all to the conference room. Yes, there's a motion to unsubscribe everyone, so I'm signing you off, sign up again with your voting cards. I will give the Members the floor to come. [[Members are coming to the ballroom.]] I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. Mr Marian Jurečka suggested that we interrupt negotiations at second reading to the presence of the Minister of Finance. I'm opening the vote. Anyone in favor, press the button, raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 3, 105 Members registered, for 36, versus 51, abstained 18. The motion for an interruption has been rejected. So we'll continue the debate. And so I now have Mr Jiří Mašek's factual comment and will prepare for Mr Jan Hrnčíř's de facto Member. We've got two facts so far. Mr. Mašek, please have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for your word. Only in response to Mr Cernohorska. There, of course, is a claim, but I would not like to go back to that, that is the question of first and second land reform. But I'd like to answer your question about setting the price. At that time, the price was CZK 7.50 per square metre, where 44.48 was established. And even today, and you can verify that, the land price is moving according to the bonita between CZK 10 and CZK 20. So that's just the way it is. If the renowned offices then set the height according to where they were based, and maybe they set it according to Belgium or Germany or Austria, then I believe that the prices could have been higher at that time. But it should be the usual price in the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u21	So, with another factual remark, I call on Mr Jan Hrnčíř and Mr Marek Benda will be prepared further. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Mr Luzar's words and, more or less, support his words. Because Law No. 50/1874 The Reich Code clearly stated that the Catholic Church is merely the administrator, not the owner of the property located in the territory of Austria-Hungary, and is entirely dependent on the relevant state authorities in this administration. This law was supplemented by other legislation that regulated the rewards for the clergy from the so-called. religious fund etc. All of these legal standards were based on a basic thousand years of historical practice, which was not fully deliberately respected. The custom was that the ruler or nobleman gave these goods to the church as a fief, which can not only be given but also taken away. So the léno meant not ownership, but management of the loaned property. After that, Act No. 103/1862 The Imperial Code takes place in the legal liquidation of lenient relations, but the essential of these relations, the subjection of the Church of the State, and the fact that the Church under the supervision of the State only administers its property, was maintained in the following laws governing the relationship between the State and the Church. The first Republic took over the Austrian church law, including Act 50, and subsequently implemented land reform through Law 215/1919, in which it removed the church about 235 thousand. hectares of land. [[to say 1990]] By Law 142/1947, a revision of this land reform, which was violated by Law 46/1948, began the law on new land reform. The church is owned only by the property that the believers, its real owners, donated, bought or built up their own activities. The other assets were merely managed, as they remained the property of the state after the above-mentioned changes in the relationship between the churches and the state. In no case should compensation be paid for the property that the Church was merely managing, the price for agricultural land being overvalued fourfold, the price for forests up to tenfold. The extent of the assets issued is also questionable, because the property is also to be acquired by seven churches that were established in the Czech Republic after 1990. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u23	So, with another point of fact, Mr. Marek Benda, so far I have the last application. Furthermore, of course, we will continue the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u24	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am signed up for a normal debate, but I want to respond to what Mr Mašek here said. Please nicely, it is the only argument that seems to work, which he invented in 2008 Vlastimil Tlustý in the war against church restitution, and it is called. overestimate unissued land property in terms of land and forests. Only this argument does not apply to the settlement of the State and the churches adopted in 2012. Please don't repeat him. In 2012, it was decided that agricultural and forestry land was being issued. She moved from the compensation, from the compensation paid, to the property that was spent. So the property may have been issued at a lower price than estimated, but for agricultural and forestry land which serves as agricultural and forestry land, therefore, at the prices quoted by Mr Mašek, this was issued, no compensation is paid for it. If compensation is paid for originally agricultural and forestry land, it is the agricultural and forestry land that has already been obtained e.g. into the interior of cities, it was built, in another way it is untapped as agricultural and forest land and its price is of course completely different. And we know that even in the ordinary restitutions of citizens that have been running here since 1991, we have several decisions of the Constitutional Court, which clearly said: you cannot pay the prices then valid, but you have to approach prices that would now correspond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u25	So, with another factual remark, Mr Leo Luzar. Your two minutes. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. Let me respond to my colleague Benda through you. Yes, based on that, he was right. But he forgot one small thing, and again I draw from the extensive work of a diplomat who clearly said that the value that was calculated here, and the figures that were said here, of course, were relevant not to the issue of property, but to the value from which the financial compensation was calculated. That's where the property, which, as a church, managed, was evaluated, was recounted by hectares of land at those prices high, unrealistic, for financial compensation, not for extradition. So here, if we were to talk about the price of the land being too high, then it would reduce the value of the financial compensation they would receive in total. So there's been a change of cause and effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Another factual one - Mr Marek Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, I must respond to what Mr Luzar says. The compensation paid to churches and religious societies is not for agricultural and forestry land. I don't know if we understand or not. Of course, when this land was released, no compensation is paid for it. It is paid for other things - buildings, land that is in the interiors of cities and for this reason cannot be issued, but is not paid for agricultural and forestry land if it has been issued. I don't know what's incomprehensible about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. And now again, Mr Leo Luzar, de facto. So it's your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u30	Just in a little bit. It was used to calculate the value of the assets as such from those figures, from the estimate that we're talking about here, and from those numbers that we're talking about here, there was talk of church property in order to make total values. That's the basis. Yes, it was not used to issue, but to determine the total value of which the financial compensation was then derived.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u31	Once again, Mr Marek Benda, with the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u32	Yes, they were used to calculate the total value of church property, which was estimated at 130 billion, of which the original plan was 83 to pay in compensation, not to issue agricultural and forestry land, and approximately 50-60 billion. release. This plan was revised under the reigns of Petr Nečas, when I sat on those agreements. It was decided that more assets would be issued, forest and agricultural assets would be issued, and the compensation would be paid only for those parts that could not be issued, which are, in particular, buildings, but also land in intravilans and other things, and thus perhaps the church was given for less than 83 billion. property that was supposed to be issued. But it's the property issued. It may have been spent for less money than expected, but compensation is paid for property that has not been spent, not the one that has been spent!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u33	That was Mr. Benda. I have no further factual point here, so we will go back to the general debate. I will ask for Mr Grebeníček's speech and Mr Výborný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was not so long ago that the President of the Czech Bishops' Conference, Dominik Duka, sent a letter to all Members and Members in which he addressed the property settlement of the state with the churches and, in particular, the quantification of the value of the assets which were the subject of this process. It is said that he also wants the current Chamber of Deputies to be duly informed about the genesis of the settlement process, which then resulted in the adoption of Act No.428/2012 Coll. No, Act No. 215/1919 Coll., Cardinal Duka no longer resembles. It was a far-reaching democratization plan to implement land reform and land distribution to small peasants and landless people. And then one of the largest landowners in Bohemia, Moravia, Silesia and Slovakia - the Roman Catholic Church - has used legislation in this context that has been in force since the period of Josefín's reforms, according to which the Catholic Church is not a large land owner, but only a user of the land of the state that it is entrusted to use for the purpose of carrying out public services. Thus, the Roman Catholic Church largely avoided reform until 1947. One thing, however, is to agree with Cardinal Duka. It really is not many Czech citizens who would be on the topic of so-called. Church restitutions are indifferent. While the vast majority of Čech, Moravan and Slezan still disagree with them, some of the top politicians are spectacularly overlooking their view. And so, perhaps, our citizens could only dream of a referendum. After all, if people were not allowed to comment on the disintegration of former Czechoslovakia, why should they be allowed to talk into billions of transfers of state property into the hands of churches? Instead of presenting a thoughtful concept for Nečasův or Sobotkův's government to help meet the religious needs of our fellow citizens, we have been almost helpless to see churches becoming part of a large-scale ownership coup that is still underway in the Czech Republic. Of course, property is a huge temptation, but it has little to do with the evangelical message. Moreover, no other country has given churches as generously as the most atheistic Czech Republic. Yes, the churches gradually became not only a key landowner, but also reached a number of properties, and a fluffy financial pillow came along. Many consider it a showy indulgence bought by NečasNečasův cabinet full of sinners. Neither did the Constitutional Court, so churches and money are once again perceived as inseparable by tandem. That, too, was undoubtedly why MEP Jan Keller turned to the European Commission to see if they were so-called. church restitution in the form in which it took place in the Czech Republic, in accordance with European law, namely the provision on rules on free competition and rules on admissible support. For the churches, Kellerův's initiative was not pleasant at all. After all, there was a risk that the Czech churches and church societies would be viewed as primarily seeking property and material background, not so much about social or charitable matters, especially after many reminded the former words of Bohuslav Sobotka about the fact that churches should be a messenger of grace and forgiveness, not subject to greed and to the use of arrogant abuse of power by the right. And that's why they say there's talk of financial compensation for 17 churches in the law, and it says how much they're going to get. However, some Members did not understand why, for example, the Apostolic Church should receive more than a billion crowns from the state when it was registered in 1989. They say the Roman Catholic Church will make amends for what it has done to the young believers in history. However, compensation is issued by the Ministry of Culture, i.e. the State, not the Catholic Church. [[10.30 hours]] Weeping over the fact that churches have little money, when they receive almost 2 billion of settlements each year and still 1.5 billion of salaries, is hypocritical from church officials, notes one of the proponents of the law, whose second reading we are discussing. Yes, I am referring to Communist Member Vladimír Koníček, who also followed the words of Pope František a bit. Land, work, own home, it's strange that when I talk about it, the svatý otec said, some people think the Pope is a communist. They do not understand that loving the poor is at the heart of the Gospel. Yes, the request of Pope František is that he be thwarted, after the power influence, wealth and money that the Roman Catholic Church has returned to the Bible, to the Christian mission, and to the poverty of the early apostles. So Bishop František Radkovský of Plzeň, leaving, remarked: This pope is God's gift to today's world. The Communist Members subsequently announced that the State had not paid compensation to the churches, but provided a gift. And he should, like any other gift, tax. Architects called. Church restitutions really burned it down. Plus, they've lost their hand incredibly. In the ANO movement, Andrej Babiš commented: I do not question restitution as such, but I question Kalouskův's 54 billion overpriced business. I've had a clear view of this for four years, and I have a clear view of it as most of our country's citizens that it was a tax fraud. So, after the October 2017 elections, a group for the taxation of ecclesiastical restitution began to form step by step, which could lead to a reduction of CZK 59 billion. This step was particularly upset by the Catholic Church, which was left to be heard that the attempt to enforce the correction of a legally guaranteed legal situation without dealing with the other party was a distortion of the legal environment. Of course, Bohuslav Sobotk and his colleagues can blame much. Just not that they weren't willing to negotiate with Roman Catholic prominents about the need for some correction of financial compensation. And Andrej Babiš, Jan Hamáček, Vojtěch Filip and Tomio Okamura? They couldn't have missed that Sobotkův's efforts didn't produce any results. So they decided to act differently, even though the opinions of the lawyers differ greatly. Some argue that a change in the law is not possible without supporting the constitutional principle that the law must not be retroactive. Moreover, according to them, the churches have a strong argument in their hands that the State has signed contracts with them in which it has undertaken to enforce the law in its wording which was in force on the date of the signing of the contracts in 2013. In other words, what happened or Petr Nečas once signed is true forever and ever. However, other experts argue that the previous legislature cannot oblige future legislators. Moreover, they point out that any law adopted by Parliament may be amended by a new law. Other lawyers add that if we take it that it was not classic restitution, but, in the sense of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, the creation of a material basis for the real separation of the Church from the State, then what was agreed should not be interfered with. However, the Chamber of Deputies decided on 28 February this year that it would continue to discuss whether the two-billion-billion-billion-billion-dollar compensation that the state would send to the churches each year for unissued property within the so-called "billion-dollar compensation." Church restitutions could be taxed. Despite the opposition of 50 members of the ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, STAN and parts of the Pirates, 98 members of the ANO, ČSSD, SPD and KSČM have released the bill to the next round of negotiations. Much has been said in the turbulent debate that church restitution always raises in and outside the House. Maybe that's what they call it. Church restitutions have been pushed through Parliament just against the will of the opposition and the majority public opinion. There was also talk of the arrogance of the Roman Catholic Church, which the right-wing government of Prime Minister Petr Nečas gave with incredibly excessive generosity. However, it is more than likely that the Constitutional Court will again judge the matter. There's no way I'm going to anticipate his decision. There is also an audit in the game. Church restitutions, the purpose of which is to determine whether the respective organizations have acted correctly in the extradition of property to the churches. Respectively, whether they sufficiently defended the interests of the Czech state. It cannot then be ruled out that the so-called a reverse negative effect that would only be a natural response to Roman Catholic property. People call it God's Mills. No, really, I'm not going to anticipate any decision by the Constitutional Court. However, I understand the words of the former head of the State Land Office, Petr Šťovíček, who repeatedly talks about the House or Senate reducing the compensation to the churches. Šťovíček claims that when calculating the compensation, the state did not count on the churches to sue for unissued property, so it would be possible to deduct the compensation for the courts and the price of the assets charged from the compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, that is basically all I wanted to tell you in the second reading of the proposed law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u35	That was Mr Grebeníček. I will now ask Mr Marek the Výborný to speak and prepare for the general debate by Mr Marek Benda. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u36	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, I would also like to make a repeated comment on this law when, therefore, the petitioners also have the need to give arguments here repeatedly during their second reading, which are often fictional, semi-true or completely false. So I would like to remind you, and it has repeatedly been said here from my mouth and from the mouth of other Members, what is going on in this law, what is not going on in it and what we wanted to achieve. I will not go back to explaining, and he said it here in front of me on a factual point, Mr Benda, as was the case with the award, for example. the soil, because here it's probably really in the plane of throwing pea on the wall. However, the law is called the law on the settlement of churches and religious societies. [[10.40 hours]] It really needs to be perceived here that the 2012 Law, on the one hand, corrected the injustices committed by the Communist regime after 1948. I consider this not only justified, but just and fair. If we want to be a rule of law, a democratic state, as we have defined in our Constitution, then, of course, the injustices of the past after 1948 committed by communists must be corrected. To what extent, and this whole thing is being debated here, it was or was not appropriate, much has been said here. The adequacy is assessed completely illogically, some aspects, such as the proceeds of the property, are completely neglected, and eventually the law itself did not solve them. But what needs to be said, and that is often no longer mentioned in the debates, is part of the law, ladies and gentlemen, also the separation of the church from the state. It says here that we are a state with a distinct minority of citizens who are actively applying to churches and religious societies. Yes, I completely agree that there is no reason why the State should finance the operation of churches and religious societies, and that is also part of this law. It should be noted that from 2014 onwards, the amount paid by the Ministry of Culture to the churches every year is reduced and will continue to do so in the following years according to this law, so that there is a complete separation of the churches from the state. This means that none of the citizens will be able to argue that the operation of churches to which they do not apply is valid. The financial compensation itself is then used, and I have said it here repeatedly, for that activity which the church does not only purely for the benefit of its members, but for the benefit of the entire society, whether it be the area of education, whether it be the area of social and charity. That is also what churches are supposed to do in principle. It's a public service, and it needs to be financed by something. That is why the above-mentioned financial compensation is part of the law, which partly serves to finance the operation of the churches, but also for this activity for the benefit of the entire society. What we want here, or virtually. What does the petitioner want to do with this proposal? The Law, which was clearly laid down, calculated the financial compensation in Section 15 (1) (a) of the Act, provides that: 6 is said not to be subject to taxation, so we want to change backwards, so we are also going against the treaty signed between churches, religious societies and the state, without one party negotiating the treaty with the other. I would consider it justified, therefore, if the Czech Republic had entered into negotiations with the other party and agreed to amend the treaty, that is certainly the right to do so, but it is not possible to do so on the part of the legislative authority. Article 1 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic 1 Among other things, it speaks of the fact that we live in a legal state, and its features include the principle of legal certainty and the protection of citizens' trust in law. I am deeply convinced that this entry and this, although false, retroactivity, legal certainty in the Czech Republic is significantly questioned. And that repeated argument that something that is not a gift is to be taxed, and that has repeatedly been made out of the mouth of some of the previous speakers, it has been said that Nečasův' government has given gifts to churches, ladies and gentlemen, that is utter nonsense. There was no gift. This is a financial compensation for the property, which simply could no longer be issued for various reasons and which was stolen from the Church by the State after 1948. And if Mr Grebeníček here is talking about the Catholic Church through you, Mr Vice-President, it is necessary to realize that if this House approves this law, he will not harm the Catholic Church in the first place, but the one who will be most beaten at it are the small churches that are part of the settlement. I do not know if this is also the aim of you Members who want to support this. On the other hand, I must say that I welcome repeatedly the words of the Communist Members that they want - I hope that this is really true - to respect the possible finding of the Constitutional Court and its decision, which I think is the duty of all of us. But the question is whether the House, by extension, the Senate, Parliament, is to adopt laws that appear to be unconstitutional, even according to the positions of constitutional authorities. Is that really what legislative power is supposed to serve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u37	That was Mr. Výborný. Four factual points have now come to my attention, so Mr Benda, please bear in mind in the general debate before we make any factual comments. Mr Pavel Žáček, Mr Grospič, Mr Grebeníček, Mr Luzar. First of all, I call on Mr Pavel Žáček to make a point of fact. Your two minutes. Mr Grospič will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on Mr Grebeníček's contribution. I know we're sent here by the citizens to listen to each other, but with the best of good faith, you couldn't listen to this. Diction, arguments, it's a return to the best years of Red Law before 1989. For me, the only conclusion is that, just as during the existence of the Communist regime, the Church remains one of the greatest ideal enemies of the Communist Party, as well as the democratic political establishment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u39	With another de facto Mr Grospič and Mr Grebeníček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. When I listen to this debate, I think it wouldn't hurt to go back to history all the time, because there is the substance of the dispute over the property of the churches, especially the Roman Catholic Church. Based on the May laws of 1874 on the external political relations of the Catholic Church, valid until the demise of then Austria-Hungary, the churches were considered public corporations that did not own the property, only managed it. I'm stressing that. The position of the churches after 1918 was similar and, on the basis of the continuity of the first Czechoslovakia within the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, the relationship with the churches was also very complex and prevailing, such as Antonín Hobza, who also claimed that sacral property is public and the churches have it only in their own administration. I would like to say that the churches had nearly 500 ha of land in their administration, namely the Roman Catholic Church in 1919. But then so - called land laws on land reforms, which removed much of this property from the church. The second aspect, however, is that between 1935 and 1936 they were written with the holders of this property under the trade law of the contract for the use of the seized property for a further period of 20 to 30 years, and thus the church came out of the conflict relatively best because the property was not taken away for the benefit of small and medium-sized farmers or legionnaires, but remained still in possession, but not as its property, but held and managed. The Land Reform Act, which falls into 1947 and which then fell into 1948, only continued to do so and led to the consequences. So talking about the fact that this property was stolen after 1948 is very misguided and misrepresenting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u41	Thank you for keeping the time tight. I will now ask for a speech on Mr Grebeníček's factual remark. Mr Luzar will be ready. Those are the last applications for a factual remark so far. Ambassador, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the words of stolen property have already been spoken here several times. I think I have to present other opinions all over the place. He reportedly commented on the church's stolen property in August 2012 also the respected dissident and Evangelical vicar Miloš Rejchrt: Not that it was stolen, it is a floscule that does not describe anything. It was not stolen - I quote his remarkable words - but it was transferred, bought, passed through the inheritance, it was sold out, as they say now, under strikingly disadvantageous conditions, but may not even have been stolen by the land in the woods. The word stolen is emotional and it's just a smoke screen. Don't stone me for those words. That is what the clergyman Rejchrt actually said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u43	Another in fact, so far the last, Mr Leo Luzar. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to respond briefly to a colleague of the Výborný who has spoken of injustice. The law that has been passed has introduced perhaps more injustice, which could, as I have quoted here in this work, Mr Karola, probably a doctor of the rights of Karola today, speak of introducing injustice between legal entities. And that's the problem. He favored church legal persons over all other legal persons. And even if, as it says here in this work, it is used that they are legal entities for charity purposes, as an argument why the state so decided, it has completely forgotten that there are non-church legal persons who have the same charity basis, and yet they are disadvantaged and tax pays. That's the small problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u45	Now we have one more factual point here, and it is Mr Martin Kupka. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u46	Thank you so much for the floor. Just a very short response to Mr Grebeníček. For me, the property was stolen anyway, or, if you like, stolen, or transferred under extremely disadvantageous conditions, because the wording can be used in this way. But worse still, the property was seriously damaged in many cases, devastated, neglected, and in the result it was a very significant loss for the Czech Republic as a whole. A very significant loss of property for the whole of the country, as well as a significant loss of moral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u47	That was Mr. Kupka. We will now return to the general debate. I call on Mr Marek Benda to speak and Mr Marian Jurečka will prepare himself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u48	Mr Vice-President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I see that the level of interest of the House is relatively low, I am not surprised. I mean, what we're having here today is a really big day of awkwardness. The endless sermon of the Communist Party that walks and says: Well, we haven't been able to arrive under our church rule, so it would be ideal for us to arrive today, when we are merely supporting the government. I find it incredible that there are people in this room who are willing to support those communists in this. I find it extremely unfortunate. Unfortunately, I understand that the Communists are the only loyal partner of the YES movement in this House, the only one who has raised his hands with them for the government that is meeting here today. But do you really have to pay such a high price? Will the House programme really only determine the interests of the Communist Party in the future? We're gonna sit here and discuss the privatization crimes 1992 to 1998, the taxation of church restitution? And we're still gonna feel like everything's okay? Most of the audience doesn't even want to say anything about it, because it's just embarrassing to everyone. And we're going to listen to one communist act after another who's telling us how to get rid of those evil churches. Sometimes, as Mr Grebeníček, we use church fathers, church authorities, the Pope and say, when they think so, we, the Bolsheviks, have learned that a long time ago. We're just gonna take the property away from them. We've been doing this for years, and nothing's changed about our practice. So this is the state of the House today. And I find that condition extremely awkward and desperate. And I think we should get out of this very quickly. A few factual points, I think I'll keep the rest until the third reading, because it seems to me that the level of attention really is quite low today. And the analysis of why this bill is clearly contrary to the Constitution and why it will be swept away by the Constitutional Court, has been read to you here during the second reading by colleague Feri, so I think you all know that the House here will only take the shame of approving the law, which she knows well that the law will then be abolished by the Constitutional Court. But I wanted to respond lightly to what Vice-President Okamura said here at the entrance, whom I otherwise quite respected in the first performance which he had at first reading, where he said: If it is proved that some things have been issued unjustly, or that some things have been overrated, then they should be taxed, what is proven to be overrated. I remember those words well. I went to Vice-President Okamur to thank him for being rational. Unfortunately, I'm a little disappointed in his performance tonight. And now I don't know how to do it when you're chairing whether I can turn to you like this, but I don't think that, despite the arrogance of all the government's efforts in the administration of the YES movement to find any errors, to find some appreciation, to prove that the church property was overvalued, even in four years of government with Bohuslav Sobotka, even today over a year of self-government, it has not been able to find one such case. Not one such case that would be able to quantify and tell us here was overrated. Only the forest and land properties that I point out were released in real life are still being tossed. That's why I think saying it was non-transparable and disfigured, well, I don't know in what sense. Vice-President Okamura here used the phrase "stuck, sewed with a hot needle." I'd like us to discuss this history... The first estimate of the extent of church property that would be subject to restitution, that is, belonged to churches, order and religious societies, made by Minister Dostál a good memory in 2000. In 2000, the estimated value of that property was CZK 100 billion. And we will admit that, as far as we know that there is some inflation going on, that the 130 billion that we talked about between 2008 and 2012 is absolutely appropriate. The bill was prepared thoroughly, carefully in 2007. He came to the Chamber of Deputies, a special commission was set up here with the participation of all the political parties, in part of all the political parties, the government coalition did not have a majority because the ratio was 100/100, which was very detailed and also with the audit firms and others to examine whether there are or are no errors, if any, whether it corresponds. She answered clearly the questions whether the church was the owner in 1948 or was not the owner in 1948. In addition, a number of legal opinions were made, which led to the fact that, yes, the church was the owner. There was no public property involved, and the views on the public were completely minority in the first Republic. Because when there are three lawyers, there are four legal opinions, it's true. But they were completely minority and treated property as if they were owned by the Church and by religious societies. So say it was really sewn with a hot needle... We re-evaluated the property in 2011 and 2012 precisely in order to avoid doubts about the valuation of immovable property in the land and forests, we decided that the property would be issued and no refund would be paid and the refund would be reduced by that amount. Twelve years worked on the bill, and it was known that it would be adopted. Since 1991, since the Land Act, which itself, and only because there was an argument in the Slovak part of the Federal Assembly due to their internal Slovak disputes, church restitution has not been included in the Land Act, but specifically in the Land Act, it has been said that this property cannot be dealt with at all until the relationship between the State and the Church has been resolved and the church restitution resolved. [[11.00 hours]] We decided in those years 2008 to 2012, that we would bring together two fundamental questions, and that is to remedy the injustices committed by the Communist regime in churches and religious societies, that we would combine with the question of separation of the state and the church, respectively. the future self-financing of churches so that they are no longer dependent on the state budget, so that the demands of the churches no longer grow on the state budget, virtually uncontrolled, because the number of clergy could grow from the point of view of the decision-making of the churches and the State had to pay for this. One of the main reasons was that we knew that since 2002 a new law on churches was in force here, that it was ten years for second-degree registration and that after 2012 the requirements for second-degree registration could come in, which would also mean entitlement to the payment of spiritual churches, for example, the Muslim Church, which had already been registered here, from the state budget. I'm curious which Minister of Culture could guarantee this to the public that we will start paying imams in the Czech Republic, and absolutely according to the laws in force. I don't think it's the Minister of Culture. But then no man would go to sit there because it would be a valid law. That is why we pointed out that this will not only be a correction of injustice, but also a cut-off of churches, virtually. payment of clergymen, from the state budget. That's why there's a gradual regression, a gradual reduction in the payout. It also pays off to churches and religious societies that did not have property or had it to a lesser extent. It was part of this broad agreement, and everyone appreciated that this agreement could be concluded not only between the Catholic Church and all the smaller churches and religious societies, but also with the Jewish community. It was something in the territory of the Czech Kingdom absolutely unprecedented that this agreement had taken place. And that's why he's there, for example. The Apostolic Church. And the unbelievable fact that the Communists go back to reporting from this counter, how come you're paying something to the Apostolic Church that they didn't allow, which they forbid, they didn't allow to exist here legally, and that's why it couldn't come into existence until 1989, and now they're going to say how something was paying them off. I find that completely incredible, forbidding someone, and then telling them how it's possible that you're paying him off. Yes, it is also paid to churches and religious societies that did not have the property. The Ecumenical Council of Churches decided in agreement with the Czech Bishops' Conference that they would redistribute those compensations in favor of the very churches that had no historical property so that the funding of the churches could be separated from the state budget and that the smaller churches could survive. Of course, if we realize this, the extent of the property that had the Catholic Church and which had the other churches was about 97 percent in favour of the Catholic Church and the Orders and the Commonwealth and about 3% for the others. And the distribution of compensation is about 80-20. So, of course, if you tax the compensation paid, you will not harm the Catholic Church, which has received most of its assets in those matters that have been issued directly, and only a small part is paid in compensation. And I know that, of course, the Catholic Church is the main target of communist hatred, because historically they have always tried to trample it. Whoever you damage the most is the smaller churches that have no property that have entered into this agreement, that it will be part of the agreement that they will cease to be financed from the state budget, and those who get away with it in the House, you will take away the most. I think this is very unfortunate, and I would very much like this House to vote at some point in the third reading so that everyone can consider what they really want, what is the interest of this Republic. If the real interest of this republic is the communist attempt to demonstrate that they can fight the Catholic Church. Alternatively, the adoption of some sentences, as Mr Grebeníček quoted here by the current Prime Minister, that church restitutions were overpriced by 54 billion. I have repeatedly asked the Prime Minister to never say that sentence again. I don't think he's ever said it again, because 59 billion really can't get ahead of 54. That was an unfortunate statement that was based on some thesis that was sometimes said here. And I don't think he can ever be used again. If the state, if the government is really, not emotionally, not based on the work of some student who says, maybe it was that way and maybe it was that way, if someone actually thinks something happened, then let them present it here. Vice-President Okamura has requested here: tell us how much has been appreciated, we can possibly make a meaningful tax. But we didn't get a number like that until today. And we won't, because it doesn't exist. He was really wanted by ministerial servants all that year, but they didn't find him. So let's not try to do things just because the Communists recommend them. And the last point, it is rather factual in nature, to what Mr Luzar has said here, the injustice to other legal persons. Once again, the ignorance of history. Of course, other legal entities, for which continuity can simply be demonstrated and which have this character of publicly beneficial institutions, were also seeking to compensate for communist crimes. The transfer of property to the village took place in 1991, the property of Sokol was returned as well. Finally, social democracy was returned to the People's House by decision of the Constitutional Court. What, of course, was the problem that we couldn't reinstate the legal entities that existed in 1948, which the communists abolished, destroyed, took their property away, and then it was no longer possible to find who was "their heir." Unlike natural persons, where I can do it, and unlike continuous legal entities, where I can do it. So unfortunately, I couldn't do anything like this with those legal entities that the Communists destroyed, but in a number of other cases, I did. So, again, it's not true that it's some special advantage that's been given to the churches. And by the way, in the entire Eastern Communist so devastated block, restitutions took place towards churches and religious societies, because it was most clear there that it was fair. Some countries joined restitutions and natural persons, some paid in kind, but returned property to churches and religious societies carried out all the countries of the Eastern bloc that went through the Communist yoke. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In fact, Mr Luzar and Mr Grebeníček will respond to your speeches. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, let me respond to my colleague Benda through you. In part, he is right that he could not deal with legal persons in a similar way as the restitution law spoke. This law introduces special negotiations with legal persons of a religious nature. But it's not about historical, it's about future. They're privileged to the future. And that is the problem that the European Union remembers, too, so that legal persons are not favoured. And this law here introduced this problem into the Czech rule of law. And unfortunately, it persists. [[11.10 hours]] As for the property and the evil communists mentioned, I would like to point out that, yes, after 1948, the so-called religious funds, which Josef II founded, were considered to be abolished, into which the property of the churches was concentrated. But the Communists didn't do that, even though they thought about it, I admit it. But they didn't, and these religious funds, such as Religious Matrix, are working constantly, and just under Josef II. they were used to finance churches. So it wasn't exactly ax and categorical after 1948 as far as religion is concerned, even though there were great excesses and major problems. I'm not covering it up. What, of course, is and will be the problem that I am talking about here is that the term in the quotation marks of restitution is connected because it is not a completely direct restitution, but the return of what was stolen, how it likes to be used briefly, to the separation of the state from the church. I couldn't agree more. This law speaks of two things and connects two things, I have said it here at the beginning, incoherent things into one, and it is a huge problem. I agree and will support the separation of the state from the church, unfortunately only from 2030, as is in this law, the final payment will be by 2029. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u51	Mr Grebeníček, with a factual remark, also with a factual remark by Mr Benešík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following Mr Marek Benda, I would like to say that not only the Communists but also the thirty persons in a statement entitled Christians against the Church Property Act of 2012, among whose leading signatories were the Olomouc bishop of the Church of the Czechoslovak Hussite Jana Šilerová, came to a remarkable position: "We believe that the future of churches cannot be built on property from the past, but on the present living faith and willingness to sacrifice. Without them, the efforts to secure the churches are futile and hardly long-term will lead to their full and beneficial existence for others. It is not possible to serve two masters, bůh and property." Such views also appear among Christians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. Mr Benešík, then Mr Benda, and then Mr Valenta, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, just so the churches can carry out the work they have, they need some financial security and they don't want to rely on the state. It is for these reasons that this is settled. That's how I see it. And the separation of the Church from the state is in the interest of all of us. That's why I think it's a good thing it's gonna happen. Some colleagues ask what the church is doing, or churches and church organizations at all. There's some borosomes in the hospital below Petřín, so go and see what kind of care they're providing, or go to some charity. We have a charity in the Strání. It belongs to Uherský Brod. They do not at all distinguish clients according to religion, nationality, they simply serve everyone and serve by providing excellent care for much less than a number of organizations that are set up, for example, by public institutions. If you look at the top ranking of the best schools according to state graduation, which in my opinion is a very objective parameter, there are three to four church grammar schools in the top ten. Ladies and gentlemen, they're raising elites. There are a fraction of them, a few church grammar schools in the Czech Republic, public and other private are hundreds. And in the top ten, there are three four ecclesiastical - raising elites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. Mr Benda, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u56	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I was provoked to comment by my colleague Luzar. By your means, then, to him. To pretend that there were some possible minor injustices during the Communist government, in a situation where the Archbishop of Prague and primas was arrested for fifteen years, of course without any court and anything similar, and then expelled and returned last year only his remains, in a situation where in the 1950s they arrived in all the monasteries, all the persons were taken and imprisoned in the internment camps and rare prints were throwing out forks on the valets and dared to burn, in a situation where tens and hundreds of priests were sentenced to high sentences, when priests were tortured, executed - are you making fun of me?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. Mr Valenta, then President Filip, then Mr Grospič and Mr Luzar - all factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I, on the Margo of my previous colleague Benda, spoke to you here from your mouth, my colleague, with respect that our position is based on the student's work. You know, it happens that most of the student master's and other work can have its own quality. Of course, it's run by experts, it's got its opponents. You can't judge by yourself, by your work, which we know from Plzeň. Not everyone has such problems with content writing and other prerequisites for work as you did. Not everyone is just like you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. President Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u60	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Madames and gentlemen, I will be brief. I don't want to exaggerate here, like some of them are exaggerating here, so I'd have to go back to what the Federal Assembly blocking section looked like. It was created not only because of the churches but also because of the municipalities. This was the proposal of the KSČM, then the DSČS, because it was an argument within one hour of the night when Mr. Lux suggested that he be a blocking clause in the Law on Soil. Both of these paragraphs were then made on the Government Legislative Council, the whole blockage paragraph being transformed into a different form from what my colleague Benda here says. And I beg such false information from the public from this counter. In the Legislative Council of the Government, a variant of the enumeration law has passed. Why, then, is it not clear that no official has discovered anything, because there is no list! And we are witnessing constant actions by churches and church institutions against natural and legal persons, despite the payment of financial compensation! That's what this is all about! So either it was issued and the rest is given financial compensation, and originally it was also in the tax law adopted, that is true, remember your party colleague, who as a result stepped out of ODS, that the taxation was there, because each income is to be taxed, that was a big exception, and that is due to the fact that they do not respect the agreements that were made before the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. Mr Grospič, Mr Luzar after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u62	Thank you. I'll be very brief, I think, because the real debate that's going on here about what the church owned and didn't own, it's stolen, it's not stolen from the church, it's got its beginning in the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. I would argue here with what has been told by my previous speakers that the first Republic has not followed this. The first Republic followed this, and we actually have those consequences to this day, and most legal expertise is based on it. But ask yourself, ladies and gentlemen, why, for example, the French Republic, which has completely expropriated the Roman Catholic Church without compensation, has no problems with that, the society has dealt with it and lives with it to this day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u63	Mr Luzar, followed by Mr Výborný, Mr Dolínek and Mr Žáček with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor. Short notes. There is talk of evil communists who are preparing something. I'm asking why President Václav Klaus' signature is missing from the bill. Answer the question, colleagues, why did the President refuse to sign this bill and what reasons he gave for it? You can look at it and you'll find that the reservations he had about the law are actually our reservations, which we often repeat here today. That's one. Secondly, I ask when it comes to the fact that the Communists against the Catholic Church, why the Communists were excommunicated from the Catholic Church after World War II in Italy, France. What was that all about? What signals did it send to society when, in 1948, this society did something about the Catholic Church? Let's put things into reality and into the situation that has arisen, but let's not use them 50, 60 years later as some kind of stick that we're trying to say in the debate here. And third time, about the job I'm really pumping and quoting here, written by Petr Karola, today JUDr. Petr Karola, so the opponent of this thesis, or the head of the thesis was Dr. Kudrna D, whose name those who participated in the preparation of the law certainly knew because he was also involved in the expert committees that the government compiled, and his name appears there. So he's an erudite person who knew very well what this student was writing and gave him support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. Mr Výborný with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I must respond through you to Vice-President Filip. There are repeated things that aren't true. We're not talking about income, we're talking about replacements. And there's a difference. And that's the big difference. So let's not say it was income. It wasn't income, it's replacement. And to Mr Valent. I'm a little embarrassed if we should start having fun here on the floor of the House and the Senate based on student work. I don't want to question them at all. A number of student thesis, bachelor thesis has a high quality level. But I think we should be dealing with real analyses, opinions of experts, constitutional lawyers. The name that was mentioned here, Dr Kudrna, was one of those who gave his opinion to the Constitutional Legal Committee, his opinion on the amendment in question. It was also said here during the debate that it was actually one of the four which, at the end of the final evaluation, did not completely question the fact that the Constitutional Court could theoretically talk about the compliance of this procedure with the Constitution of the Czech Republic. But otherwise, I mean, let's really evaluate the opinions of the cathedral of constitutional law of law faculties, the Academy of Sciences, etc. That's what I think is probably more appropriate than fencing student work here. Notaben, if she has a hundred pages, two hundred or twelve, I don't think the quality of the job matters. Jaroslav Heyrovský wrote his study on 12 pages and got the Nobel Prize for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. Mr Dolínek, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u68	Thank you. Good morning. I would not perform, but my friend Marek Benda, through the President, gave me nothing but to get off. I don't want to leave here today with the feeling that I'm some kind of scoundrel, that I'm somebody here, God forbid I took something from some church. For proboha's sake, a tight government that had a majority by mistake at the time gave them something, the entire state apparatus worked to somehow legally screw it up so that they could defend it for the future. And I'm just not gonna say in front of the nation that it's some kind of mantra from above. No. Here, just a close majority of Members have agreed with their ministers who have given it to their officials to give the churches some sort of settlement that is not based on anything. Nothing at all. It is based, of course, on a claim that is ethical, I agree with that, there is no contradiction in that, because the Church certainly deserves support from the state, but the volume, the way the settlement was significantly unethical. And that's why I'm saying that you certainly can't leave this House today with the feeling that whoever doesn't want to maintain the current state is a crook. On the contrary, I think that whoever wants to straighten it out is the one who wants the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u69	Mr Žáček, with a point of fact, followed by President Filip, then Mrs Pekarová Adamová and Mr Benda will speak with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u70	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I have no choice but to support my colleague, Marek Benda. As objective and true information about the reality of the Communist regime is presented here, there are various unfair arguments from the Communist Party. I think it is necessary to talk about finances, property, but it is necessary to add that the Martyrology of church leaders is, to be said, infinitely long, and in that sense I am following up on my colleague Benda. How many representatives of churches, men and women died in communist prison facilities and Czechoslovak gulas? I think it is legitimate here to ask the question of what was in the quotes the price of these church officials, these people, these patriots. I think we should talk about it in this context and remind them of their memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. Vice-President of the House of Filip with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u72	Thank you. By your means, Mr President, to a colleague of the Výborný. You know, replacement or filling. Well, if you'll excuse me, you'll take from the insurance company the filling, for example, when you crash a car and it's a premium payment that you pay, so it's also a taxable performance. It was the same after the floods. Simply businessmen who received insurance premiums that they were paying, so they taxed it. And while we are talking about this and here it was argued by colleague Benda about how this will not pass by the Constitutional Court, did the taxation of the pension benefit be condemned by the Constitutional Court to extinction when you taxed the pension to former members of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Army of the Czech Republic? No. Don't tell the truth here. Argue not politically, but factually.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u73	Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u74	Thank you for the floor. So I was provoked by my colleague Dolínek, because what he is saying here and not only him, of course, he does incredible things here sometimes, when communists are shielded by the Pope, so it really rips people's ears off. But I have to say through the President that at this point in time, what we are dealing with here is, in a very simple way, that someone has stolen something from someone, destroyed it, destroyed it, pillaged it, after many years it has been corrected, recovered it, it has happened that old injustices have been straightened out, at least in part, even though some will never be straightened. And now we're talking about if we're gonna kneel down on him one more time, and we're gonna give him a nice tax. Well, if this doesn't strike you as a scoundrel, I'm sure we do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. Mr. Benda. And they follow factual points - Mr Žáček, Vice-President of the House of Pikal and Mr Dolínek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u76	Mr Vice-President, I will also respond to my friend Petr Dolínek through you. I was trying to say it here in my performance. Pavel Dostál, in the government of Miloš Zeman, made the first map of the extent of the church property to which the churches and religious societies are entitled to return. And the only difference that existed between your governments and those so-called. The terrible governments of the right was that your governments, under the influence of Jiří Paroubek and others, were still inventing that it would be some kind of fund that would be public in nature, into which the property would be poured into, and then gradually handing itself over to those churches. And since we've all had experience with how such public funds work, how different consolidation agencies work and others, we've been terrified of it and we've been saying, for God's sake, let's not create some public fund where there's 100 billion assets and someone's gonna manage it and where it's gonna be the biggest fight for who's gonna sit there and manage it. There was a fundamental difference. It's not like anyone here is questioning the extent of the property. [[11.30 hours]] That's why I'm telling someone to prove to me that the size of the property is wrong. Have one of those clerks give it to me and give it to the resorts to prove to me that there's a refund for something that's not left of the state. It's not like that. No one can quantify it because there's no such thing. The only argument is the argument with overrated soil, which I say repeatedly here does not apply because we have released the land.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u77	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Žáček, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u78	Thank you for the floor. Once again, I have no choice but to respond to President Filip when he compares the incomparable. It compares today's discussion of possible taxation of matters of churches with taxation of members of the security apparatus, police officers or soldiers. I think it must be said here that after 1989, the Democrats were obviously so generous that they did not touch the debts of former representatives of communist security forces, State Security, Public Security and all others. In the context of what we're talking about here today, and almost 30 years after the fall of the Communist regime, that was probably a mistake, and I think we should get back to that. And what they received is still being given for service to the Communist regime, so it should be taxed in a similar way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u79	Thank you. Mr Dolínek, with a factual remark. After him, Mrs Pekarová, Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u80	I haven't been questioning the church's moral demands all along to make sure there's some sort of settlement. That's what I said in my speech, that I stand by it, that I'm sure it's the right thing to do. But we have, like, an organization like the Workers' Body Unity. The very hard one after the revolution, very hard, defended where it would acquire or not recover its assets. It was an organization on the level of Falcon, Eagle, just one of the others. And it was very difficult to defend those things. Here in the House, they didn't care to get their property back, to get it for free, without taxes, and to send it to them for 25 years. It just didn't. And that's where one group chose to get it. And she got it close mostly to the House the moment it happened. That's what I'm questioning here. I'm not questioning the principle, but I'm questioning the way and the consequences.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u81	Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u82	Thank you for the floor. Very often it is questioned here whether the claim for compensation is justified in terms of financial performance, etc. And we are constantly taking turns here, but we lack ministers who are responsible. There's hardly any government here, there's only two ministers. [[Voice from left: three.]] And I'm sorry, I didn't see you. But three is still a pretty rusty number. There's nothing to brag about. So I propose that we suspend this item in the presence of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Culture is here, but I think at least these other two ministers of this government should be here. So I'm giving this proposal, please vote in favour of it now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u83	Yes, thank you, it's a procedural proposal. I have called in my colleagues from the lobby and we will vote on this proposal. I hear you're all logged out. Please sign up again with your voting cards. We will vote on Mrs Pekarová Adamová's procedural proposal, which is that the House will suspend its negotiations until the arrival of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice. We are in such a situation that we can vote, so I am opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 116 Members registered, for 38, versus 60. The proposal has not been adopted, so we will continue the negotiations. The de facto comment by Minister Staněk is next. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Maybe I'll try to move the whole debate that's constantly revolved around financial settlements for land and land. I think that the request for the presence of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice is rather an attempt to surround and interrupt this meeting, because I cannot give an exact answer because I did not process these things, however, according to a study by the Research Institute of the Agricultural Economy, which had the Ministry of Culture which was responsible for verifying the calculations, so the market prices of agricultural land at that time ranged from CZK 5 to CZK 500 per square metre depending on the plot size, its expected future use and location. A significantly lower price is observed for land over ten hectares, outside the construction and its surroundings and in rural areas. The highest market prices then reach the land around Prague with an area of up to 0.1 ha. The high market value was then also found in Brno. In 1993 to 2003, the average value of the agreed prices is CZK 37,72 per m2, calculated by some average of the agricultural land prices in 2008, that was CZK 54.58 per m2. And the price that was used was CZK 44.48 per m2. And what's going on here--
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u85	I'm sorry, Minister, your time for a point of fact is up. You can apply, of course. Mr Jurečka's point of fact is now followed. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u86	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will therefore follow up on the subject which the Minister of Culture has now opened, and I have the evidence that he is referring to. I would just like to point out that the average prices of immovable property in the Czech Republic recorded on the basis of statistical methods and expert estimates, which were subsequently applied to the original property of churches and religious societies, were used precisely for the purposes of the valuation of the original church property. The results of this calculation were then compared by the Ministry of Agriculture with the survey of market prices for agricultural and forestry land listed in the studies of the Agricultural Research Institute, which the Minister mentioned here. After comparing the prices of agricultural land on the Czech market, it was found that the valuation of the original church property carried out in the submitted material corresponded to market prices. The result of the evaluation was the appreciation of the various types of immovable property of churches and religious societies. In my contribution, to which I am duly applied, I will explain in very detail the difference that concerns restitution under the Law on Land and which concerns the issue of property settlement with churches. Perhaps I would ask if the Minister of Culture, since he has already taken the floor, could read the opinion of the Ministry of Culture, which was prepared as material for the Government's meeting, when the Government took a position on this proposal from Members. Because the opinion of the Ministry of Culture is handled very well, legally well, and I think it would be fair for the Minister of Culture to present this opinion here, publicly, or I can trace it and quote it here as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u87	Thank you. Now Minister Staněk is signed up with another factual remark. So once again, you have to fit into the limit of two minutes. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u88	I just wanted to say that this is about those who created this calculation being able to essentially clarify it. And they always will be. Because the whole process was created by setting ourselves up, the right-wing government determined how much money it was willing to spend, and that's what the calculation was built on. And he'll always come out. If we want to question this calculation, we need to prepare another model, another formula. Because there were no such patterns. That's the answer to the question of whether to analyze or not to analyze. And then I will ask Minister Jurečka to tell me which government position he wants to read, whether the position presented by Minister Hanáková, who replaced Minister Besser under the reign of Mr Nečas, and the Members, I don't know whether the Public Affairs or the People, or what kind of group it was sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies, or if he wants to hear the comments of Minister Herman, who was presented to him or Minister Šmíd. I think it was probably the most objective. But I don't know which one you want to hear, so just say it. Or if I'm supposed to read all of them here. But I don't think that's the point of this session.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u89	Thank you. Mr Luzar, with a factual point, followed by Mr Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u90	Thank you for the floor. By means of your help to my colleague Jurečka, I would like to quote from the diploma thesis: Further doubts are raised also by the fact that at that time the Ministry of Agriculture had a much more recent study available, an analysis and evaluation of the agricultural land market by 2006, which also sets the price of agricultural land. According to the data, the price of the land is decided. Another valuation which the Ministry did not work on or refused to work on or used for a qualified estimate is so called. Green report issued annually by the Ministry of Agriculture, which contains an overview of market prices for agricultural land. The prices mentioned in these studies are different, of course, to the disadvantage of what the Ministry used. I ask, then, why didn't these studies be used by the Ministry and turned to the old study that was advantageous to the churches?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u91	Thank you. I am merely saying that Mr králíček disturbs his apology and is present and Vice-President of the House of Okamura apologizes within 14 hours for reasons of work. We will continue with factual remarks. Mr Výborný is now next, followed by Mr Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u92	Thank you for the floor. I am so sorry, Mr Vice-President, but I must respond by your means to the Minister of Culture. Why are you here telling such outrageous things about the fact that the right-wing government has created some kind of goal to give something to someone, and then fitting the terms to make it all work out, to make an award, to make a list, etc.? That's not true! It's not true. These are completely pointless arguments that are not based on the truth at all. From the beginning, and it was said by many previous speakers in front of me, these things have a connection to the law on land of 1990, and that's what it all comes down to. And this was where the injustices that were committed by the Communist regime after 1948 were corrected, and not that someone here, whether it was right-wing or some other government, wanted to give something to someone!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u93	Thank you. Mr. Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u94	Thank you. I was pretty clear. I said I would like to quote and publish the opinion of the Ministry of Culture on this proposal that we are discussing, i.e. It is a position that has already been given during the reign of the ANO movement, so it was probably your predecessor. And I would like to quote the conclusion of this position: The taxation of a financial compensation would also constitute a contradiction with the principle of legitimate expectations of churches and religious societies which, after fulfilling the conditions for the right to obtain a financial compensation and not rejecting the conclusion of a settlement contract pursuant to Section 16 of this Act, rightly expect to receive the amount provided for in the law and in the settlement contracts and have already taken steps to make use of it. The adoption of the proposed law could thus be regarded as a breach of Article 107 (3) (c) TFEU. 1 Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in which legitimate expectations are protected as special property rights. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). 1 The Additional Protocol is not only acquired, i.e. existing assets, but also legitimate expectations of acquiring such assets. The amendment of the law would thus prevent the acquisition of assets which specific entities bear witness to legitimate expectations. The Constitutional Court also points out the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, which clearly refers to the concept of protection of legitimate expectations as a property claim which has already been individualised by a legal act or is individualised directly under legislation. It is directly the founding of the Constitutional Court. And the conclusion of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry, which was led by the Minister for the YES movement, is: In view of the above, we propose to take a disagreeable position on the parliamentary bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u95	Thank you. Mr Dolínek, Mr Mašek after him and then Minister Staněk with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u96	Thank you. Well, what the Member has read is, of course, predictable, but who created such legitimate expectations? Well, it's just the close majority. That was not a referendum. It wasn't like there was a vote, a vote or anything. This is where most people thought they were tight, that they were just making it up, and they did it. And to Mr President, the Excellent. It surprises me how you can judge the Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic. I'm really surprised. The Minister just read the dry facts. It doesn't fit with your list of nominations for the leader of the People's Party, and if it doesn't suit you, do you degenerate him? This is not a serious approach to the Chamber of Deputies. This belongs on the tabloids, not the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u97	Mr Mašek, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to return briefly to my opening statement when I spoke about the context of the first land reform, when out of 234 thousand. In 1927 the church owned 68 thousand hectares, which were evidently owned by the church before 1919. hectares. The same thing was passed on to 1947. In 1947, during the second land reform, when land over 50 hectares were to be redistributed to small-scale cooperative or farmers - and so unfortunately it was not bookmarked, so there would have been 5 203 hectares left. So he's the contradiction in the number of hectares the church has signed up for. And of course, I understand the argument here, maybe, that she managed a larger part, but she didn't own it. That's one moment. And the second to the price. Indeed, the prize was in 1947, when the democratic parliament, in July, adopted a substitute law in which the compensation was calculated by an average price of 20 percent for the ten years past. So if we had taken an example in 2012 from our democratically-minded ancestors, then we had a masterpiece for how to event. this amount is calculated, and we would probably not end up with an amount of 44.50 per square metre.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u99	Thank you. Now follows the factual remark made by Minister Staněk, followed by Mr Výborný, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, with factual remarks. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Your way to Mr Jurečka. I have announced in several interviews that I will not be running for President of the Czech Social Democratic Party, so I do not need to use the floor of the Chamber of Deputies for campaigning. However, Minister of Agriculture, you certainly know how the documents for the ministers are prepared. Now I don't want to judge whether Minister Šmíd prepared it himself or not. But I am convinced that the basis which he received was drawn up by the officials of the Ministry of Culture, with whom I am still fighting in some case. Because see under which governments and under which ministers of culture these officials have been appointed to this office. So no wonder the result is what it is. I, too, was prepared with a similar proposal for a performance. But I'm thinking about what I'm saying, and I usually prepare it myself. So maybe that's where you read it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u101	Thank you. Mr Výborný withdraws the factual point. The following is the factual comment made by Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u102	Thank you for the floor. Once again, I will have to respond to Mr. Pre-Speaker Dolínek through you. Mr. Ambassador, you're saying that any proposal that is approved here, even by a narrow majority, doesn't have the legitimacy, if I understand what you're saying. We should probably look up how many of these laws have passed in the last parliamentary term or during this parliamentary term when the Social Democrats formed the government. Are you saying, or are you suggesting to all of us, that all such laws that go through a tight majority are, in future, easily questionable because of this fact, because of the form? Let's talk about the material here, but please don't talk pretty much here in this spirit, because we could be here forever and go back to all the possible bills that have passed through here. And believe me, there would be a lot of them there, which also dealt with small parts of the budget, which also had a considerable impact on the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u103	Mr Dolínek will respond with a factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u104	Thank you. Unfortunately, it is possible in the Czech Republic since your representative taxed the income of people who put their lives on the line for the Czech Republic. [[Messenger. Pekarová Adamová: Through the President!]] I didn't address you. I said that since the TOP 09 can do this, this atrocities, it's possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u105	Thank you. We will continue the general debate. President Vojtěch Filip has applied with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u106	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me say this because I have not made a factual point because I will read you one letter which shows that the agreement that we have been discussing here is not respected and presented here by Mr Benda. I'll make it short. Doctor, to your conclusion, to open the matter of restitution, which I consider to be throwing peas on the wall, I would like to tell you our problem. In 1975 we bought an old cottage and barn in the border area from children of the original German owner who was not moved. Since then, we've been working on a transcript of the garden and the barn property under our name. We paid taxes on it and had a contract with the local JZD, and it was not until 2010 that the Land Fund told us that the land, which was first divided into three parts - now the land parcel numbers - are not ours and that we must not dispose of them. It is a barren sandy sloping land at the end of the forest, which we have taken over full of junk and mess, planted 15 trees, planted strawberry plantations for our children and our friends. Everything was well rewritten to the residents who moved into the property of the Němec who were displaced after the war. We already have two correspondence files and a lot of Internet and personal visits, but we are patiently rejected everywhere. The last report is that two parts of the garden have been transferred to the church and the property under the barn remains a land fund that does not respond to requests for purchase of our land, and we cannot dispose of the barn any further. The new employee claims that we are not listed as applicants, nor do they respond after the last new application. The church refused to sell us and eventually graciously rented one garden with extensive written conditions that we must not plant, for example, a tree. It is about 200 m2, which we need to operate the cottage and barn, to bring wood and to the workshop. We turned down the other part of the garden. We're retired, and in addition to the hard work in this garden, we still pay a pretty big rent price. Interestingly, the local rectory had no idea about the situation, the only old vicar recently died here and started eight new ones, and got up to the contract to sign from the superior parish and bishopship in Pilsen. In the vicinity alone, they received 16 land, including land under panel houses, which also refuse to sell to homeowners. At the same time, the municipality took over the church for not requiring land in the village. There are weddings, cultural shows, theatres, concerts, exhibitions, and... he cares about the surroundings and communication to him, he also organizes an event around the old church in Luke with statues of the ghosts of all the former inhabitants, not the displaced Němec, as some Democrats tried to impose on the Internet. [[Nesroz.]] All I'm saying is that I have many letters like this. I quoted here at first reading the situation of the 80-year-old lady and the family from Holland who were sued to release to the state the land on which their houses stand so that it could be handed over to the church. So it goes against the law, against the law! o so-called the return of property to the churches. Don't be mad at me, so let's get back to the original one. I get that some of them didn't fucking like the property fund, which, of course, responded to how it really was with the assets. And if we are in this law, let us at least go back to those principles that were discussed here in 2011 and 2012. They don't respect each other. I'm so sorry that the taxation is in order. It's in place! It is simply a financial transaction, and we cannot get used to the fact that taxes are forgiven and prescribed and even increased. That's impossible. That's impossible! That's why I read it to make us realize that it has material content, not political content. Nay, political. That we are presenting this is due to the fact that there was not such a bill that the South Bohemian Region, for example, presented here in 2014 or 2013, was not adopted. Nor has our bill been discussed in the last parliamentary term. Yes, it could have been done right after 2013, when social democracy presented it as well, and it was not discussed either. So please, let's go back to what's under the law. It's a tax on financial transactions towards those entities. And it has no other content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u107	Thank you. Mr Lubomír Zaorálek, who has preferential rights in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will speak with the opinion of the ČSSD MEP. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u108	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So, ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on this debate, where we have been approached more than once by chance, so I will try to tell you what our position is. Although I must admit, I do miss someone here today in the House. I miss him here, it's strange, but I miss Miroslav Kalousek because he was a hero that night, as I remember. He was a hero of a number of actions concerning this law on compensation. I mean, it was called mitigating injustices, but it was actually the property settlement law. I'll get to that. But Marek Benda is here, which, by the way, is also one of the important men of what was taken late at the time of the night and what was then signed by the treaties with the churches in a very curious way under the cloak of the night, so it didn't seem at all like the honorable treaties that were signed at the time. My friends, what is the problem and why it is necessary to remind again what happened here and why we are returning here today in this debate. It was said that it was awkward, but it is said by those who caused this awkwardness, just those who then decided against general justice in this country. And that was the argument I used as head of the Constitutional Court, where I requested the annulment of the law. And I know the Constitutional Court didn't break the law at the time, because there were good reasons for it not to go against those claims, but let me remind you that the Constitutional Court abolished the word just, which seemed quite substantial to me. So what some here are trying to defend is that it's all right, so please it's not true and it never has been. And I'll explain why. Because when it comes to restitution of property, when it comes to starting to deal with history and what happened here, don't be angry with me, whatever religion you are, but true justice cannot be done. In the past, against history you are unable to establish justice, you are unable to make a settlement. I can't really do that. And I know that everyone here today reminded Pope František, so it almost grows in my mouth, but in 2016, he had a performance in which this pope, who is very sympathetic to me, I say, spoke against retribution justice by coincidence. Against retribution justice. The pope said that the idea that someone had been taken away and now he's getting it back is not a negotiation of justice. It says, "This is no way to bring justice." And I'll tell you why you couldn't get it back then. [[12.00 hours]] The basic problem - and I'm not going to deal with legal interpretations or agricultural land prices, because it's a debate that really confuses the whole thing. The basic problem is that your settlement with the churches at the time went against the entire restitution legislation in this country. You know, it's really... It went against the way wrongs were corrected here. And it was always a partial compensation, it was a partial correction of injustice, because it was obvious that we were not able to actually negotiate justice. And the difference between the church's assets and the physical figures was that if we were only doing a reduction of injustices, then here we settled these legal entities, so we actually accepted everything that they applied. No one else had such an advantage. You see, that's the unfairness. That's because it went against general justice. This is where we chose a procedure that didn't choose from anyone else. And I find it phenomenal when Mr. Marek Benda here said the sentence that the church was most clear that it was fair. You know, that fascinates me. The church was the brightest. And I'll tell you why, for God's sake? That means, where goods, businesses, tradesmen were destroyed in 1948, where everything came from without compensation, machines, equipment, everything, so there it was - wasn't there as unfair as those churches? As a basis of what justice, based on what position can anyone here afford to say that these were fairer? Nothing against the Church. I totally respect their role in society. But don't be mad at me, the history of churches is a complicated history in this country. I remember in 1968 the famous British writer Graham Green, who walks through St. Vitus' Temple - I've always loved that writer, so I see it before my eyes. He says, "We Catholics and you communists have blood on your hands." Let's face it. But at least we don't have water on our hands like pontský pilát. That's beautiful. I understand that to this day. But you see, the joke is that, after all, the history of churches is complicated history, also full of blood, burning heretics, getting to property in a very questionable way. It can piss anyone off when they read Czech history, how property was built there. You all know that it was difficult with the church's property, that it was never really theirs. Not for Marie Terezie, not for Josef II. It was never so that they were completely in the air that it was a completely independent institution. It's never been like this before. The Communists didn't bring that up. Take Masarykův's views on the Catholic Church. It's all part of the history. And then you come and do justice in this way that you say, here it's fairer than the others. That, Mr. Benda, you will never explain that sentence. You'll never defend this one. Yes, through the President, Mr Marek Benda, you will never explain that sentence! You'll never defend her. She's pointless. There is no such justice, because no retribution justice, as I said, can really be brought to justice in this country. The only chance we had was to find a reasonable deal. But then, when I think of that night, as things were going on here, there was no interest in finding such a reasonable deal at all, because, you know?, we were unable to negotiate justice against the past. To those dead people who aren't compensated, we can't handle... To those people whose lives are broken, no one can correct justice today. And the only thing we can do is somehow reduce it adequately. It's the only thing we have the strength for as a sněmovna. But that's what you said, you didn't. You've made such a move, and the kind of approach that was arbitrary, in which you've actually cut off the whole debate, you've made it clear that you're not going to have some fun and you're going against a large part of the company. But no one has the right in this country to negotiate justice in such an area that concerns history without building an agreement with the company. And if he doesn't, he can't be surprised that he's gonna get it back to the House like this! [[Let's hear it from the left.]] The missing Mr. Kalousek here often talks about values. And the debate about restitution often becomes a debate about morality and values and that what has been stolen is to be returned. You see, in this country, in which, I've said it here before, when something gets stolen, in this country, they come back to those who are being robbed, not even five percent. Five percent are the ones who get what's stolen back. That's how this country follows the principle that's stolen, it's returned. Don't you care if you want to return what's stolen? Do you understand? There's a lot of injustice, a lot of injustice. But you've decided, and you should explain why it's so fair here. Why do all the other wrongs, even today, not even have to go back to the past, so why will they all stay? And you're not surprised these people feel weird about this? That no one can support such a law? Because he's arbitrary. And, you know, when you guys are doing all this shit about values and principles, and how you're trying to get justice, you're just gonna piss people off. This is the way to produce populism in this country. How to help those who go and stand up for those who feel the injustice and say, These politicians are useless. These guys are imposing their justice on us, just as they're right now, and they're claiming to be their values. You're alienating politics. You guys were detaching politics from normal people back then. So I'd like you to cut back on your moralizing preaching speeches today if you stop talking about how embarrassing this is, because you really created all of this when you're reluctant to talk rationally about the fact that justice is only very improvised and fragile in our hands and that it only has a chance when we agree. If we can come to a reasonable agreement. And not when you basically behaved very arrogantly in this House. You were letting us know you weren't gonna talk to us. You didn't even respect that we said: this is the people's opinion and you should take that into account. And today you're just as arrogant as me saying it's embarrassing, ew, I have to deal with it here. I mean, the justice here is clearer than anywhere else. So it's not. And you guys made this for yourselves. It's a matter of time before you get it back! Because, you know, that's the justice that really, in this with justice, gives you what you've done to each other fair and square. That's why you have it here again. And I'll give you another argument. They're running out now. As people watch, this is where they run out. They say, we here, the Prague-West, the churches have blocked the land, there's no way to talk to them. They can't be dealt with. The specific problems that arise from this. I remember the churches promised to deliver annual reports. Are they handing them over? No. We cannot get to them as Members. The churches promised they wouldn't press charges. I remember how it was promised. Hundreds of lawsuits filed! So it doesn't really work like you said it would. Those promises that have been made, they just don't come true. So only your unfairly, unfairly adopted law only breeds further injustices and injustices. That's what you produced. And you're not gonna make up for that with any nice talk today. [[Let's hear it from the left.]] How is it quite arrogant to say how a man can afford to sit around like that? Do you understand? Yes, I also feel embarrassed and sad. But the fact that we have to do these merry-go-rounds here in the House, that if someone has the right and the power and the votes right now, they're gonna adopt a law that only applies for a certain period of time, because once he loses it, it just shows that it wasn't an agreement at the time. That there was nothing that we could have politely agreed on at the time when it was about history, where it was almost an obligation to agree. So I fully support in this situation that we should look at whether it is possible to make what was then adopted fairer. That is why I agree with this debate. Yes, we can talk about it now. Unfortunately, only now! Why couldn't we then? Talk about something we're able to publicly defend. Everyone everywhere, in different environments, to different wronged people, to different people who suffered unjustly because of the regime that was here. So I'm not ashamed to say it here. And I don't like the obvious statements that fall here and the confidence with which they are made. For example, one more statement comes to mind that the separation of the church from the state is a blessing for us. That's what we should want. It's not really the law to settle with the churches. It's the law of separation of the church from the state. I don't even know that there would have been any public debate about this before that we would have made it clear what we mean. You had it in your programs to separate the church from the state? I don't remember. And you didn't open the debate at all when you were doing this. Not the settlement, but the separation of the church from the state. [[12.10 hours]] And I'll tell you something. And that's my personal opinion, that's now, if you don't interrupt me not saying it for the club, I'm saying it for myself. I think churches have always been part of this nation's life. In a different way, the Unity of Brotherly, Catholic, in various ways, entered the life of this country and even participated in the creation of values in this country, the form of life in this country. And not only by preaching, but even by making marriages, they buried and all that. It was all part of the life of the country and the statehood that was here. Of course, I'm not talking about the way that this has plagued the Communists, but all this time, the churches have been intertwined into the life of the state, and I wish if the churches are here, they'd be intertwined like this all the time, just to live in the values that we've created here together, so there's some certainty that we still respect them. All together. I don't want some separation. We can do that by separating political parties from the state, or I don't know who else. After all, we are one community. And today, when the churches were paying for the dignitaries, they often enjoyed it. It wasn't something they understood as oppression. When I was talking to some of the church leaders who accepted the treaties, I said to them, "Why did you accept it?"so they told me, "well what we had left, they put it in front of us as either you take it or you have nothing." Some churches did not accept it. There were some, I guess, I don't know if Baptists or others who turned it down. It was admirable that they could say no, we're not going to do this. And then there were some who accepted it, but one heard from them: What should we do? It means, it's not like it was a blessing for everyone, what you invented. It often seems to me that they were even forced to accept it. And the question is whether even with what was invented for them, because apart from the Catholic Church, it's not that much money. When it all runs out, I sometimes feel like somebody's gonna have to come back after years, because they're gonna find out that they're not able to live out of it, and we're gonna pay it again, because this might suit the Catholic Church, and we're gonna see how it's gonna work out for the rest of them, and it's often not that big of a deal. Do you understand? The idea that you guys are going to say "that's the separation of the church from the state, that's obviously a good thing" - that we haven't made clear at all if this is a good thing for this country. In a democratic country, if there are churches as part of that body, that state, and we actually know that they respect certain principles and values. This is the nature of this country. We're not in America. There's a separation of churches from the state in America. That's where the churches live all by themselves. In fact, they don't give a damn about the state, and they can't even report what they're doing because no one's hurting anyone. I don't know that we're having a public debate here about us wanting the American way of life and that we want churches just as torn apart, you know?, from the state. It's never been like this around here. And do we want that? And here's the thing: it's a good thing we invented here, you didn't even notice, the separation of the church from the state. And I'm telling you, it's all a problem. It's all for debate. But you didn't let her go back then. You guys turned down this debate back then. I was there, so I remember. You remember the night it went down, and the way you behaved back then. So you have it back now. And you have to hold on to it now, and you're gonna have to watch it happen, because nothing here is certain. Don't be mad at me, but when someone is arguing with the Constitutional Court, none of you know how these arguments will be considered after we have accepted. That thing's open. And it's open because you were running it the way you were running it. So the awkwardness you've been talking about, add it to yourself, not us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u109	I thank Mr Lubomír Zaorálek. Before we continue - I have three factual points here - I would like to quote the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Jana Krutáková from 10.45 to 19 o'clock, from 10 to 11 Mr Josef Kott and Mr Ondřej Profant from 10.50 to 12 o'clock. We are now continuing with factual remarks. First Marek Benda, then Mrs Pekarová and Mr Juránek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u110	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, I will only briefly respond to my previous speaker, Mr Zaorálek. First of all, he chose a sentence I didn't say to confront me fundamentally. Please let him go over the tape. I certainly never said church restitutions were the most righteous. I just said that in all of Eastern Europe, if anyone had been restitutiond, it was churches, because it was most clear that they had continuity, unlike other legal entities that were undiscoverable. That's the first point. I'd just really beg that we don't fight things the other guy didn't say. But the second point is much more fundamental. It is not true that the House of Deputies has not had a very long debate on the scope, meaning and importance of church restitution. It was held in 2007, 2008 and 2009, the Social Democrats were there, they had 78 Members at the time, if I am not mistaken. It was held in 2011-2012. The fact that social democracy has not been able to take a position at all times other than that the state that Mr Zaorálek has shown us at the end of his speech - yes, we will take care of everyone, we are the wise state that will decide - we have only warned that we are in a situation where this is not possible when we have religious neutrality in the Charter and other churches from other church circles will come to us and we cannot prohibit them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u111	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mrs Pekarová's point of fact, Mrs Adamová, will be prepared by Mrs Juránek, and the other three will be signed in. You have the floor on a point of fact, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u112	Thank you for the floor. I feel rather than hearing the opinion of the ČSSD club here, that we have heard here a philosophical discussion on what justice is and what justice is no longer. Through the President to Mr Zaorálek. Although I wasn't here in the parliamentary term when the settlement law was passed with the churches, I must say that the stories that were going around about how it was then, how long the debate was, how your MPs were here, by reading from various books, that the MPs were sleeping here at night, because it was your work, that you guys were out here, and you didn't do it factually, but just to delay the approval of the proposal, it seems to me that you were crying on the wrong grave, because you had the space, you had enough of it. We can certainly find it in the screen records as well as in the discussions that took place and who approached it. So please don't manipulate the fact that it wasn't really material and that the proposal wasn't discussed. Memorialists like Mr. Benda will also remember specific years, perhaps even more specific periods and dates. But I remember very well as a TV viewer at the time, because I was not actively involved in politics, that the debate was really very long, but unstandard. So please don't lie here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u113	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Juránek, Mr Výborný, will be prepared for a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u114	Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, I am the only KDU-ČSL club that has voted in favour of this law. I voted for him in the Senate. This law has not passed in the Senate, but a proper debate has been held. I would now turn to my colleague, Zaorálek, and I would like to tell him that his claims are largely false. And there's only one thing I want to lift, two things. It's a partial compensation to the churches, just like it was for everyone else. That's the first thing. I emphasize, no fair, it was partial. And the other thing, and I'll tell you that from my own experience. If you look at the fact that there has been a real separation of the Church from the state in this way, which I also stress is that this separation has taken place, I want to say that this has been done since 1990 right after the revolution and that this matter has been conducted over all those governments within Europe, within the whole of Eastern Europe, for the longest time. I will say now that I have calculated the matters that have taken place, from the point of view of a member of the Catholic Church, I dare say that if I had negotiated in this way the property of the South Moravian Region as the South Moravian Governor, the result would have been that I would have been dismissed at the nearest council for great disadvantage. That means, now I dare say that based on what happened, the Catholic Church is the one who has become poor most of all. And I take that because at the same time there was a separation of the church from the state, and I have been working for this as a member of the Civil Forum in 1990.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u115	Mr. Ambassador, I'm a tolerance myself, but the time for a point of fact is over. Now Mr Excellent's point of fact, Mr Žáček, then Mr Grebeníček, Mr Zaorálek, Mr Dolínek and Mr Kupka, will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Through you to a colleague of the Zaorálek. I must say, it was remarkable, I almost want to say an adventure reflection on justice. However, no one here has ever really talked about any absolute justice being done. We're talking about compensation, partial compensation for injustices that were caused to someone the way it was in the restitution law. That's the same thing in pale blue. So I would be very, very happy that often this demagogic, shifted, sometimes false facts are not presented to the public as something we need to revise at all costs, because it is not about justice and so on and so on. Mr. Ambassador, raise your voice and point to us: you can't be sure of anything, because now you're going to drink the cup down, nothing here is certain. Well, I hope we're still living in a legal state, and at least we all have to be sure of that, you like me. And we will respect any decision of the highest instance, and that is the Constitutional Court, and not here somewhere between the lines to question how the Constitutional Court actually did it. That's the certainty, the rule of law. And we should all respect him, not shout here: you can't be sure of anything! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u117	Thank you, Mr Excellent, for keeping time. On a point of fact, Mr Žáček, then Mr Grebeníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u118	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to comment on the club's position, if that was the club's position. It was all there and nothing for everyone. For me, it was internally torn apart, like today's Socialist Club torn apart. But what I think has been said there and what must be fundamentally disagreed with is relativization, debathing of why we are here, what has happened and what we are correcting from the communist regime. The signal for the future, that is, that we say here: you can steal anything and we will give you back five percent - by the way, I don't know where the five percent Mr. Zaorálek picked up -- or maybe we can murder someone, the signal for the future is very dangerous. Why? We have some historical experience, we're able to reflect when we say if we return something, we're going to tax it right away. That is what I think is very dangerous, and in this sense I disagree with the idea that we are unable to negotiate justice. We have to try. Coping with the totalitarian past is a very complicated process. Apparently, he didn't quit at five years in connection with the rendering law, he wouldn't quit 30 years after the fall of the Communist regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u119	Thank you for keeping time. On the point of fact, Mr Miroslav Grebeníček, with a factual remark, will be prepared by Mr Zaorálek, also with a factual remark. Also a colleague of Dolínek, Kupka and Grospič. Those are factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the appearance of my colleague Zaorálek and the subsequent factual remarks, I again recall the words of Pope František, who keeps telling Catholics that priests and laymen should practice only what their faith preaches. He even let himself be heard that he is a much better decent infidel than one or another Catholic hypocrite. How many times have we heard František say that if this person is Catholic, then it's better to be an atheist. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u121	Thank you, Mr Grebeníčk, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now Mr Zaorálek's point of order, then Mr Dolínek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u122	Thank you. I'm only gonna try because it was more questions where I found out I wasn't being understood. First thing. It really took a long time here, the debate, because we were trying to prevent the adoption of the law. Obstruction is a regular way that the opposition uses when it wants to prevent something, so it is, which is why the debate was especially long enough for us to understand each other. Second thing. I insist that Mr Benda has said the sentence that I quote here, because I have it written exactly. He said: It was in those Eastern countries that church restitutions took place because it was most clear that it was just. So that's the sentence I insist he said. Then I would also like to respond to that with the Constitutional Court, which I was also misunderstood. I said somebody here said they knew how it would turn out, and they were counting on it. I just said no one here knows anything like that. We must try to adopt a law that we believe is constitutionally sound. And how will the Constitutional Court decide, if it ever happens, that's his thing, and we can't anticipate any of this here. We need to know that what we're doing is constitutionally correct. This is not a question of the rule of law. That is precisely the respect for decisions we do not know. If it comes down to it, let's wait. And no one can anticipate. And then there was the objection to how it was here that I wasn't telling the truth. Friends, the basic things that I said aren't being reported by the churches, isn't that right? Well, they don't. Or when I say that promises have been made that property lawsuits will not be filed, I remember that they were. And yet we have hundreds of lawsuits. So I insist, and when you say something wasn't exactly, tell me which sentence in my performance wasn't true. I'm... Either it's a misunderstanding, or I'll prove it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u123	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Dolínek's factual comment is now followed by a colleague Kupka, Grospič, Onderka and Mašek. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u124	Technically, I don't want to assume what the Constitutional Court will do. For example, in the case of solarium, it certainly did not happen that it would abolish taxation and so on. Therefore, please, let us not assume here what the Constitutional Court will do. I think the supreme law of the Constitutional Court is that they are elite lawyers, judges who guard democracy in this country, and I am glad that we have such a judge among us in the Czech Republic. There will be nothing left but a little nudge, and I hope Mr Grebeníček will understand through the President. When Mr Grebeníček here says that if someone talks about something coming to mind, then, unfortunately, when Mr Grebeníček comes out, something will come to mind too. I'm a junior year, and it's not entirely positive, but it's just an emotion that connects with my age, and I wouldn't appeal to other people if I were to refer to Mr. Grebeníček's things, it's not entirely ideal. So take it from me that it's just a clash of world views and history. But now the important thing about Mrs. Pekarová. I would, through Mr President, not to violate the Rules of Procedure, I apologise, do not allow one thing. I wouldn't say in my life what he thinks and doesn't think any other representative, sorry, MP or any club. And you said here, through Mr President, I blame you for Mr Zaorálek thinking something about the club and all that. I wouldn't dare do that in my life. You just attacked the club's position here, and please don't. This is where the Sovereign Representative of our club stepped up, and you gave us an opinion, and leave us to what we think. As we unfortunately leave to you what you think. And one more thing. There was no obstruction. There was nothing unstandardly long. There were tens of billions talking about here. Those aren't some change. That's tens of billions, and we can talk about those all night. Five nights, if you like. That's just not five fifty. So get used to it, when it comes to money, about the Czech state, we'll have fun until 5:00 in the morning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u125	Thank you for keeping time. On the point of fact, Mr Martin Kupka, followed by a colleague, Grospič. So far, we're in factual notes. Again, my colleague, I will read the apology of my colleague Marek Benda from 12:30 to 14:00 for business reasons. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zaorálek has asked us here theatrically, so let us tell you what he wasn't telling the truth about. By your means, Mr. Zaorálek, you weren't telling the truth when you said there was no talk at the time of the separation of churches from the state. That's what we were talking about. I wasn't here in the House, but I saw the debate outside the Parliament. And, of course, part of the public also focused on the part that concerned the separation of churches from the state. And what puzzles me and what is remarkable is what you are right about, that even then the Communists and Social Democrats were artificially trying to divert attention from the separation of churches from the state to the subject in which you felt the populist possibility of earning points, namely property settlement with churches. At the beginning, Mr Luzar mentioned that it would be best to discuss this separately, that he sees it as completely separate topics. I consider that a complete manifestation of cynicism. On the one hand, therefore, speak and prepare the separation of the churches and, on the other hand, do not create conditions for them to be able to deal with such a situation at all. I beg all those who are here to discuss this, knowing what the churches are doing in relation to the sick, in relation to those who are unable to help themselves to evaluate this important level as well and evaluate it honestly, not cynically.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u127	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Stanislav Grospič's factual comment is now being prepared by Mr Onderka. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u128	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to say by your means to my previous speakers, particularly Mr Kupek, that just when the debate on the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies was being held here, there was, of course, also talk about the separation of churches from the state. But unfortunately, it was the proponents of the law that did not want to bring the debate together, and it was the right-wing spectrum that said that it was time for us to talk about it when the appropriate time came that the question of the property settlement was now on the agenda. And we're not going back to history. If we're arguing here about how the church's property was originally created, or whether it was in the administration or not, we're just trying to prove factually that we're missing the very list. If the bill had been passed, it would have been a lot easier, because it would have been obvious what someone was supposed to give. So what was the church and what the church event was. I was. Today, we are trying to make a settlement between one group of restitutionists and above-standard assessments by churches and religious societies, among which are, among other things, religious societies that were established after 1948. But it would also be fair to say that the state financed nearly CZK 121 million each year by churches and religious societies between 1945 and 1948 and the following, and that the first Czechoslovak Republic financed more than 50 million annually by churches and religious societies, because it had the idea that the churches were not managing their property but only lent and that it needed to be involved in some way in financing these religious societies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u129	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Onderka, with a point of fact, will prepare a colleague Mašek, a colleague Pekarová and a colleague Zaorálek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u130	Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. Through Mr President, Mr Žáček, look at the subject. Don't hit the social democracy club, or you'll force me to start hitting your club and you yourself. Social democracy suffered quite strongly before 1989 and certainly more than some of you, and I could begin to discuss the details. Let us focus on the subject, look for wannabe justice, and forgive the invectives of the social democracy club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u131	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, a colleague, Jiří Mašek, with a factual remark, then Mrs Pekarová, Adamová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, through Mr President, I will address my previous speakers, Mr Juránek and Mr Výborný, who have explained to me that it was actually only a partial replacement, the replacement that was actually accepted in 2012. The partiality of the compensation is questionable from my point of view, or I understand the word mistakenly, because of what the church requested after 2012, it was approximately three times the size of what the church actually owned in 1947, when the second restitution law took place, or was adopted. I'm not questioning the fact that she ran larger lands, but the church didn't own them. So just this request for almost three times the size is questionable. And I don't want to go back to the contested price per square metre. So from this point of view, I see that the real abolition of the decision to exempt compensation paid from taxation is appropriate, it is the least that we can do now in the context of fundamental justice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u133	I thank my colleague Mašek for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mrs Adamová Pekarová, with a factual point, will be prepared by my colleague Zaorálek with a factual point. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u134	Three specific points towards Mr Dolínek, he is already looking forward to this, through the President, because I see that he is very pleased that he can then also respond to me. The first thing - whether or not it was an opinion, whether or not I dare to put something in your mouth, virtually that I can't see into your head. So I said that such an opinion, virtually. What has been lectured here by Mr Zaorálk, I do not think of it as the club's position, it is my opinion, I hope I can keep it here. We are still in such a situation that we can afford to have an opinion as Members and opposition. That's the first thing. Second thing. You are constantly arguing that this is a very high amount, and the time that was needed for this discussion should have been sufficiently long. It's been 29 hours, if that's what my assistant was counting correctly, looking at the tapes of how long that point has been discussed. If I take it that your government has approved, for example, lately, not to go far into the past, fare discounts in this republic, we haven't even discussed it here, of course. It's a six billion a year estimate, which for the 30 years we've been talking about here at the church, so some sum, if I'm still taking inflation, so that would be some 200 billion, so that's okay. This can be discussed in a few minutes at the government, without any wider discussion, without any social consensus and such things that you complain so vehemently about here at the church restitutions. And then, please, put your statements together with a colleague of the Zaorálk who thought it was legitimate, obstructions are fine, and then you'll say a few minutes later that it's not okay here. Let's get this straight at the club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u135	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Zaorálek, also with a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u136	Thank you. There was supposedly an I.D. on the sentence that wasn't true in the speech. And the false sentence was supposedly that I said that the separation of the church from the state did not take into account. It's been explained a little bit, I'm just gonna point it out. Yeah, that doesn't mean the word didn't come out here, but the joke was that we said we were gonna make a property settlement, and now there's not gonna be a separation, and when we're separated, we're gonna talk about it. That's what you feel when I say it like it's wrong. We'll just start a process, the result will be separation of the church from the state, and then we'll... That is, of course, complete nonsense. If we're going to the separation of the church from the state, it's important to figure out what it means, what it means, and if that's what we want. And that's what I asked for back then. So let's actually say what it is, this idea here existed in the past, even deep, early in the first republic. This is a debate that has already been held here, and we haven't even had time to realize the consequences, because she wasn't willing to make room for it. So that's what I said. So again, it wasn't a lie. Then it was said that we wanted to separate because other, militant religions could come up, how we would deal with this from the perspective of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. So I can tell you that today is the subject of a big debate, for example. France. That's why we see what terrorism and new phenomena are doing everywhere. There are ways of not letting these militant religions, which used to be in France, have been promoted in a very dangerous form, and the state has done nothing about it. [[12.40 hours]] This is a new topic, it means, it's something that can be processed, and it's possible to prevent someone who threatens the state from becoming a part of it. This is exactly what we saved at the time, claiming it was dangerous, and we can't figure it out. We were just supposed to think about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u137	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now with priority rights the Minister of Culture of the Czech Republic Antonín Staněk, who has applied for his preferential rights so that he does not have to take factual notes. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, members of the government, honourable fellow citizens who no longer lasted at the gallery and went to see the beauty of the city of Prague. I took advantage of my preferential right to sum up my views on not only the ongoing debate, but, in particular, the proposed amendment to the Act on the taxation of compensation for church restitution, which is ready, but not from the workshop, as I have already said, the people who have been associated with a number of institutions that already look different today. Social democracy supported the holding of this meeting and the proposed amendment to the Act on the taxation of compensation for church restitution simply because it is correct. I'm not saying anything you don't know and what you wouldn't hear from social democracy. We say in the long term and consistently, and today it has been said several times that correcting old injustices cannot be done by creating new injustices. And that is unfortunately what happened in the case of church restitution. The newly damaged ones in this case are mainly taxpayers and also Czech, Moravian and Silesian cities. Today, it faces pressure from churches in more than two and a half thousand lawsuits, you hear well, more than two and a half thousand lawsuits about extra property. Restitution has thus grown from state to cities, municipalities, villages and individual individuals. And in this I see a big and fundamental problem. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will repeat the facts. The infamous Nečasův government and its MPs passed a law that fundamentally overestimated the financial compensation for the churches and, to top it all, granted the churches the exception that income tax does not have to be paid out of this paid money, the world, wondering. I stress that this has happened, unlike all other entities, from all other associations, but also from charitable organisations and, of course, also from businesses and companies, businessmen, employees and citizens of this country, who, of course, have to pay income taxes, and that is simply not fair. Perhaps, Mr President, by your means, Mrs Pekarová will accuse me of being moralized again, but you know, I have only heard with an ear that we are also entering into such a different debate with this debate: how can a Communist Member afford to take the name of František into his mouth, for he cannot even believe, it is not compatible! We've been down here like this before. I think faith is everything, it's a personal matter. And if anyone ever thinks that way, I'm not surprised it's possible to adopt laws like those adopted in the case of church restitutions. So the law adopted is unfair. Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk already knew the song circle broke, it needs to be fixed. If the law has failed, it needs to be fixed. And there's an opportunity. I'm not talking about anything more or less. During the whole discussion on the taxation of church compensation, there is a great deal of insurrection and a threat of lawsuit against the Constitutional Court. Let me give you two basic opinions on this judicial debate. Firstly, the Constitutional Court is here precisely to resolve and resolve similar disputes. I am not defending myself, and I think my colleagues have said it quite clearly too - the Constitutional Court is part of democracy and we fully respect its findings. And I would very much like Members of the opposite spectrum to respect the same. Dear colleagues, let us save with strong words of unconstitution. For me, the opinion of the Constitutional Committee of the Chamber of Deputies is important, and it has supported the law and does not see it as a violation of constitutionality. And the final verdict may be given by the Constitutional Court. However, speaking of courts, let me remind you once again that it is primarily a church that, after the adoption of restitutions, started a court carousel that this republic did not really remember for a long time and did not even recognize. Let me just remind you that when Nečasův' government approved the law on religious restitution, the main argument was: at last everything will be resolved, the litigation will end, new relations between the state and the churches will be established. And what is the result today? That's what we see and hear. We have a jurisdictional dispute over property, we follow over two and a half thousand lawsuits, only against the State Land Fund was or is there 251 litigation, against the Forests of the Czech Republic it is 380 disputes, against the Office of State representation in property matters it is 1 239 litigation, against the Ministry of Agriculture 141. Ladies and gentlemen, those courts are also meant to judge cases of ordinary people who are waiting for a decision on maintenance, waiting for a decision on many others. I know they're different senators, but the courts are either in the first degree, in the second degree, in appeals, and more and more. Only for the Ministry of Culture, it's 22 lawsuits. And it was said here that land is not being released. For example, at this time, the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic is dealing with the release of Madonna's painting from Veveří by the National Gallery, with extraordinary remedies under way. In the second stage of the proceedings the proceedings against the Technical Museum in Brno for the issue of land in the cadastral territory of the city of Brno. The defendant National Library - replacement of the will to issue a judgment, there consent to the release of Baroque organ placed in the bark of the mirror chapel. National Gallery in Prague - edition of four paintings, proceedings suspended. Ministry of Culture - publication of the Church of Our Lady Healing of Patients in Karlovy Studánka. National Monument Institute - the issue of one land and one construction, the cadastral territory of Opava. National Heritage Institute - 26 land and 4 buildings in the cadastral territory of Bouzov plus furniture of the State Castle Bouzov. National Heritage Institute - release of the plot of the Teplá Monastery. Moravian Museum - issue of a set of movable things. Museum of Earth - release 166 pieces of music and music. And this way, I could continue with the various ministries, the individual bodies of the state administration. [[12.50 hours]] But fellow Members, there is another group of lawsuits that are not discussed. It is almost 500 lawsuits that are conducted with the Association of Regions and Regions, the Union of Towns and Municipalities and Municipalities. But those weren't meant to be the subject of these lawsuits. How did we come to this? Just by circumventing the law. These are the courts which seek to determine that the supply of property or the transfer of property to the municipality was not done freely, so that it is invalid and that it still belongs to the State. And then you can sue the state. So, as my colleague Zaorálek has already said, one of the rules that has been agreed here has obviously been violated. It is fair to say that mostly church orders are judged. They're not churches, they're church orders. What's been solved? Nothing at all. And I'm really surprised that the representatives of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, that the party in the name of starosta and Independents, that it is these municipalities that have these problems with the extradition of church restitution that they do not try to stand up for these communities here and defend their legitimate interests. What happened? The opposite has happened. On the other hand, the Nečasův government approved the law on church restitution did not conclude the matter, but caused thousands of new disputes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise one thing at this point, and I want it to be very clear from my mouth right now. I appreciate Roman Catholic and all other churches of Protestant and Orthodox and all church orders. I am an open man and I see the positive benefits of churches in social life. I see a lot of respectable work done, for example, in the field of care for sick or old people. I feel deeply and acknowledge the Christian traditions that our society is based on. As you know, I'm from Olomouc, and there's the legacy of all the archbishops who lived and resided in our city, to see on every corner and every day. After all, in the next year we should remember two hundred years since the third Archbishop of Olomouc established Archduke Rudolf Jan, who stood at the unprecedented expansion of modernization and prosperity not only of the city but of the archdiocese. Yes, it was he who stood at the founding of ironworks in Vítkovice or the promotion of Olomouc lyceo at František University. However, none of this can justify the injustice caused by the bad law of Nečasův' government and adopted after disgusting tugs in the Chamber of Deputies, when the opposition was deliberately silenced and taken away from it. Even the time for discussion was shortened because those who wanted to enforce the law very quickly did not like it, so they shortened it so that it could not be spoken because power had already been spoken. Don't lecture us here about what is and isn't right. Mr. Zaorálek mentioned today that we can finally talk about this here today freely. And why today? Because the President and the President of the Chamber of Deputies will certainly not take away anybody's word if he speaks to the point and will not shorten the discussion contributions to the limits set. That's why we can talk about it openly here today. Dear colleagues, I repeat once again that my support for the amendment of the law is not given by disrespect to the church and wrongs committed on it, but only by trying to correct the injustices left to us by ministers and members of the right-wing government of Petr Nečas. Dear colleagues, even though it was a government that first put it in wine, that it was a coalition of budgetary responsibility, the rule of law and the fight against corruption - well, we know how the government of Petr Nečas ended and how some of its parts gradually changed - later, the government of national disappointment was branded directly from right-wing politicians. My predecessors at that time, whether they were Jiří Besser, a non-stakeholder for the TOP 09, or Alena Hanáková for the TOP 09, who resigned in mid-June, resigned from her post because she announced that she did not feel sufficient support from the former representatives of her club, so they are those who stood by the adoption of the law on religious restitution, which is now returning as a boomerang to the Chamber of Deputies as proof of absolute injustice. Finally, a reminiscent of what was said here. The churches have undertaken to give their consent to the publication of their annual reports. As soon as everything was approved, and as soon as it was at night... It's not just the law. It is mainly about those contracts that have even more concreteized the law, which have made it even more impenetrable and which, as has been said here, have been signed in the hours of the night, so that it will be as quickly as possible, a few days before the end of the government, that is true, that is reality, so soon after these churches have simply opposed the publication of their annual reports, launched a great cry that they are private entities and who is in what business they have. Despite the declaration by the churches on how this money serves and will serve the public, they did not keep the minimum to which they undertook to do so, i.e. publication of their annual reports. So, please, let us view this law as a law to straighten out injustice and remind those who have promised something that promises are to be fulfilled not only at Christmas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u139	I thank the Minister of Culture of the Czech Republic Antonín Staňek. I also have two factual points - Mr Petr Pávek and then Mr Marian Jurečka, who is also enrolled in the debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to lighten this debate and welcome the pupils of the 6th class of the Semil Waldorf School with an escort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u141	We welcome the students here. Thank you, Mr Pávek. My colleague Jurečka has a point of fact if he wants to use it, because at 1 p.m., I'll call a lunch break. Then you have two minutes to make a point of fact, Mr Member, otherwise, of course, you have the floor in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u142	Thank you. I'm here to respond to the Minister of Culture, Staněk. Thank you for appreciating the role of churches in the past and the clue in the Olomouc and Moravian region, mentioned here by Archbishop Graubner two days ago at an advent meeting in Olomouc. By the way, what you were talking about was also because the church had the property. Let's get this straight at the club. Some of you are performing and speaking and quoting some of Pope František' statements. There is also a service that is financed from the very property that is linked to the poverty that is of course meant to be. This was also the case in the past. However, I would really like to draw attention to a few moments. You are here, Minister, he said that there is a situation here, that the non-taxing of these finances that the church is receiving today in terms of property balance. If you look into the restitution law too, it's clearly written that restitution compensation is simply non-taxed. They're not income, they're just not taxed. That's how it's clearly defined. Then another thing. So if you're saying that there was something that was done wrong, it's a certain injustice, etc., it would be serious to have the very study that the government could have commissioned here, and the study could have been opposed, it could have calculated the things. Then the debate would be serious. That's how it's built on water. And the third thing. You're the one who's been talking about the court-martial swamp and the fact that there's a lot of people waiting for fair sentences. I also think that the family of Advocate Altner is waiting for the verdict of the court to be fulfilled and that social democracy will respect it and will finally pay off the funds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u143	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And since it's 13 o'clock, I'm putting out a lunch break. Meet me at 2:30. We have six entries for the debate and one application for the debate in detail. I think that the representatives of the petitioners and the rapporteur will rest, who have spent the whole time here honestly. Thank you. Meet me at 2:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will continue to discuss the amendment to the property settlement law with the churches. Before we go any further, I'm going to introduce you to the apologies that have gathered here in the meantime. Mr Stanislav Fridrich apologises from today's meeting between 14.30 and 21.00 for reasons of work, because of the meeting in the electoral region from 14.30 to 21.00, Mr Vít Rakušan, Mr Jiří Ventruba apologizes for the afternoon meeting for reasons of work, Mr Pavel Staněk apologises for the meeting from 14.30 to 19.00 for family reasons, Mr Mališ apologizes for family reasons for family reasons during the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 9 to 14.00, from 14.30 to 19.00 for reasons of work, Mr Karla Šlechtová, Mr Špičák apologizes for Jan of employment between 14.30 and 18.00, Mr Holomčík apologises from Řehounek to the end of the meeting for reasons of business, Mr Jáč apologizes from 15.00 to the end of the hearing, Mr Josef Kott from 17.00 to the end of the hearing for reasons of the working session, Mrs Radka Maxová from 12.30 for Miroslava of the working Němcová. So many new apologies. We will continue to discuss our point, we are in an open debate. It is Mrs Golasowská turn to perform. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, or maybe half-empty benches. Our lunch is over, so maybe our debate will be quicker and calmer. So my few words about church restitution. I'd like to remind you what the word restitution means. It's getting something back to normal. As in so-called. restitutio in integram is a remedy caused by damage by the restoration of the original legal status. If someone takes something from you violently, let's say he steals it, and let's be honest, preventing monasteries, church institutions, and property was a violent act of theft...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so that the lady can make her case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u147	...it's common ground to return this property. Unfortunately, this property has been returned after many decades often in a detachable state, voices are echoing that it should not have been issued at all, and, if anything, so that the compensations are inadequately increased, and let the church pay a tax on them. So a stolen thief with a heavy heart returns damaged, and whoever didn't care has to fix it and pay for it. A special rule of law where the law is on the side of thieves. And that's what we're talking about, the replacements of material, not the replacements of moral, social, ethical. There are also voices that are going to be a church virtually. Churches with property to do. But the church doesn't make several dignitaries, the church is a community of people, citizens. In the Czech Republic, more than a million inhabitants claim to be a church, and its assets serve, as we have heard here, not only to the believers but also to the unbelievers. In 1990, I visited the Břevnov Monastery, where he lived for totalitarianism, or there was an archive of StB for totalitarianism. Try to compare the period photos of the Břevnov area back then and now. The monastery in which the Benedictines are based today has changed beyond recognition. It's a meeting place not only for believers, but for anyone who wants to find an oasis of peace and rest in a hasty world. The church here shows how it can manage for the benefit of all, not just believers. There is a restaurant, hotel, brewing beer here, there are renovated beautiful spaces that can rent companies for their events, but also individuals, and there is also a beautiful dominant, basilica of St. Margaret, which has stood here for more than a thousand years and we can rightly boast about it. The monastery garden and the surrounding area are being increased. I can name other church buildings, for example. The Jelly Monastery. By the way, there were 464 religious and priests interned here. The pilgrimage church of svatý Jan Nepomucký on Zelena Hora, who was listed on UNESCO monuments and who unfortunately was returned to the church badly damaged. For example, the beams were attacked by woodworm. It is also a pilgrimage church in the Orlicky Mountains in Neratov, which so-called rose from the ashes. There was a broken roof, and the local vicar repaired not only the church, but breathed into Nerato's life. He gave work to handicapped but also to citizens who live in Neratov. I must also mention here the merit work of religious sisters who teach in schools or take care of hospitals or monasteries about seniors, sick, dying. They have already been mentioned here e.g. Boromean sisters under Petřín. I would mention here that there is also a single detox for teenage drug addicts in the Boromek sisters. From my region I would like to mention the monastery in Jablunkov, where the sisters of Elizabeth care for the sick and dying and their service and the work was highly appreciated by inspection. I would like to quote the head of the inspection: "This is a device that I would recommend to everyone with a calm conscience, even to myself. " And now the hand on the heart - we can thus commend the devices that operate e.g. regions, cities or private persons? I don't know about you guys, but I'm getting more complaints from senior facilities, of which private individuals have made a business and seniors are in last place for them. [[14.40 hours]] Colleagues and colleagues, if you have any doubts about the management of the church's finances or the property that has been returned to it - I note returned, not donated - I am very happy to invite you to any church facility, service or school. Come with your own eyes to see that the Church's intention is not to defraud the property, as it was in the days of socialism, but to treat it for the benefit of all, believers and unbelievers. I would also like to say that the circumstances of the annual reports have been mentioned here, so I would recommend to anyone who cares, so the annual reports are definitely on the pages of individual dioceses where you can look at the management of the churches with property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u148	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Žáček will now make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u149	Thank you. All I have is a technical remark on the lady of your service, Mr Vice-President. This relates to the fact that in the monastery of Břevnov there was a department of monitoring, so-called surveillance, and if the department directly had any documents there, they are now stored in Achiv's security forces. The main archive in which there were documents of the security services of the Federal Ministry of Interior was in the chapter before 1989 or before 1990 in Spišské Podhradí, or again in the church building, today is in the Archive of the Security Forces and part of Bratislava in the Archive of the Institute of National Memory. The study institute has ties to even the House. The last time he was at the Struze opposite the Goethe Institute, today the Archive of Security Forces, and before here in the House opposite the main entrance in the building, it was the Home Office building. The operational archive, meaning the union agenda, the so-called statistical and identification department, was in 1989 again in the former church building in Prague 6. Even the National Security officers themselves called it the College. Today it was returned to the church, if it isn't even a high school, I don't know exactly. He subsequently moved to Kobylis, and today the materials of the State Security Statistical and Identification Department, including the union agenda, are in the Archive of the Security Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u150	Thank you. We will continue the debate. With a factual remark, Mr Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u151	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will be quite brief. I received a letter from Mr. Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia Grebeníčk by Miloš Rejchrt, so I will read it here with permission: In the debate of the Chamber of Deputies, you paraphrased one of my statements on a case-by-case basis today. Specifies that in 2012 I wrote in a magazine Protestant this: States, even the vicious and capricious leaders of the role of dictator or party, confiscate, confiscate, expropriate, take away, nationalize, nationalize, but do not steal. Emotions of difficult terms make it difficult to have a substantive debate. That was the point of my statement, which I continue to insist on. Likewise, I continue to argue that the Communist State ruled by the Church has wronged and harmed the Catholic Church, including by unjust removal of property. I am glad that the Communists can no longer control the state, but I do not like it when it pronounces my name in support of its demagogy by a Communist MP. Please don't ever take my name in your mouth again. Miloš Rejchrt, evangelical priest retired. Well, that's just what Grebeníček says here regularly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u152	Thank you. It is now Mr Zaorálek's turn in the general debate, but I assume he has already spoken with priority rights, and since I do not see him here, I assume that his application for the debate will not be up to date. The Member shall report with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u153	Hello. I wanted to ask because the Minister of Culture here today spoke about the fact that the Ministry of Culture had some kind of analysis carried out in which it financially evaluated whether or not there were or were not favorable church restitutions, so I wanted to ask for a procedural vote to interrupt this point until the Ministry of Culture submitted a report or an analysis on the disadvantages of church restitutions. Thank you. And please check out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u154	Yes, I've noted your procedural proposal. I will call Members who are not in the O.R. at the moment to vote. I checked out. I ask you now to rejoin your voting cards. The procedural proposal is that we interrupt negotiations until the Ministry of Culture presents the information that has been requested. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 5, 95 Members registered, for 19, versus 60. The motion was not accepted. Now, with a point of fact, Minister Staněk, Mrs Balcarová, is reporting after him. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u155	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that after my right hand it will calm down a little bit, so that I would tell any other interested parties to interrupt this meeting to supply some further analyses that I was talking about verifying the calculations carried out by the Ministry, and if you were listening to me, I was also talking about the fact that no analysis is possible that a normal person will not do it because there is no analysis of what. So please, don't try again. There's no analysis, there's only facts that say there's nothing to analyze. It's just that the calculation was done purposefully, and whatever it is, it always confirms it. Unless there's another calculation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u156	Thank you. Mrs Balcarová did not report, this was just a result of the vote. The President of the Faltýnek, Mr Černohorský, is next on the verdict. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u157	Afternoon, colleagues, I didn't want to perform at all today, so I'm sorry, but it's just a reaction to a colleague who suggested that the negotiations be adjourned. The whole debate, as I see it, isn't about whether the property that was stolen should be returned, we may all agree on it in this hall, I hope, but when the calculation was made - it was sometime in 2012, 2013 or so, I didn't sit here, nor did most of us. I asked one of my honored colleagues today how much he bought a forest, a hectare or a meter before last year. He bought it at a relatively high price, for CZK 150,000 per hectare. An overgrown forest, which is 15 kroner per metre. The price is still rising, not falling, so in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 may have been a little smaller, but here is an amount of 277 thousand per hectare. And with regard to the agricultural land on which plants are grown, the market real price today is on average CZK 150,000 per hectare. And here's 448 grand. There's no other dispute here, my friends, it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u158	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Černohorský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u159	Thank you for the floor. So I wanted to ask the Minister, if there are no analyses and there are no analyses, so why should the Chamber of Deputies decide that we are actually going to tax church restitution. Because we don't have any mathematical evidence here right now that's being processed by some authority. The only thing I have received so far, through Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Luzar for actually sending me the diploma thesis, but these are the only numbers we have, and we do not have really verified it yet. Why doesn't the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Culture that presented numbers at the time have any available? There is no analysis, so what do you want to vote on?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u160	Thank you. Mr Bláha, after whom Minister Staněk, came forward, came forward with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u161	Colleagues, colleagues, I'm sorry. I'm not going to perform because I really know little about this subject, I admit it. But we definitely heard something, and then we heard a reaction through both the President and the pirates. And I'd like to respond to that. All the time I've been here in the Chamber of Deputies, I've been hearing from pirates how to track everything down. Everything's online. And you're the ones who can use it. This is where you taught us that we old people don't even know how to use cell phones. So please Google how much land is sold for and check out the contracts she sold for. Now you've heard it here. So, please, use it. You're intelligent, aren't you? You're the new generation that's starting. So count it, if per hectare is the normal price as was the escape. And if the price per hectare of forest, per hectare of land... Simple math. And there's nothing more to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u162	Thank you. Minister Staněk with a point of order. After that, gentlemen of Třešňák and Černohorský, in that order, with factual remarks. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u163	Well, Mr President, thank you for the floor, and for the last time. Colleagues, members of the Pirates' MP's club through the President. So just say it simply that you just don't want to support it, and don't play here all the time for some analysis. I think it's been said a hundred times. Mr President of the Faltýnek Parliamentary Club through Mr President also told you, so I will repeat it again. There just isn't, there isn't, there isn't, there isn't. If anyone was talking, they're talking about calculations that the Ministry of Culture, my predecessor, used to prepare when the law was being prepared. And I'm saying again, if the prices are in some range from-- to-- well, so it just said somewhere-- it's going to be here so it's going to work out in the overall calculation, and it wasn't too expensive, and it really didn't irritate the public. It was only a little irritating, and I could talk it out. And that's the whole result. So I'm telling you again. If I want to, I can find another formula, put other numbers in it from the variance that is, and I get the calculation many times smaller, or many times bigger. But again, my friends, this isn't about nationalization. This is only about making this disproportion equal by taxing what has not been calculated so far. It's the minimum amount of all that's left. And I said, it's gonna go to culture. So tell me you don't want it, and it'll be easier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u164	Thank you, Minister. Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský, Mrs Lenka Kozlová, apologizes from today's meeting between 15 and 16 for reasons of work. We'll continue with the factual notes as I reported them. It's Mr. Třešňák's turn. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u165	Good afternoon. Although I volunteered with de facto, I do not want to respond to the previous speakers. Only at the junkyard do I have in the previous procedural vote that I abstained, I was in favour. I'm not questioning the vote, but I'd like to say it on the record.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u166	Thank you. Information has been heard. Mr Cernohorsky, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u167	Through Mr President to Mr Bláh. You just heard what the Minister said. There's no way I'm clicking on my own - this property has been transferred times something because the price is moving from - to. Really, no one has yet analyzed whether really, as colleagues from the KSČM are talking about it being overpriced or, on the contrary, when someone makes another formula, they can say that it is not enough. So the point of this contribution was that the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Culture had some kind of figures prepared to prove that it really happened that we handed over the land to the churches at a higher value than their value was real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u168	Mr Luzar will respond with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u169	Thank you for the floor. I will try to respond and maybe even respond to a fellow speaker through you. Yes, there is no real study, even though they offered in the preparation of the law in 2012, that is Ernst & Young and others, the processing of such a study, is spoken of, as I once said, 200 man-hours that would cost analysis, and would be on the table of economic figures. This was rejected by this commission and moved in that plane of estimates. What you're saying, and what we're constantly saying, are facts that suggest that the calculation, if it were done on the basis of the facts that are known and which are traceable, would be different numbers than those in this law. But the analysis wasn't done. In other words, if you believe the facts we know about the land, the values, etc., then at least you can do the analysis for yourself on that committee. But there is no institution to do this, even though it was offered in the preparation of this law in 2012 and it was rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u170	Thank you. We will continue with those who are enrolled in the general debate. It is Mrs Pekarová Adamová's turn to prepare Mr Beitl. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u171	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, in response to the last series of factual remarks, I would probably have responded briefly in that sense, and I really do not know the details of how the individual amounts of compensation were set at the time, frankly, it is not exactly the material I would have devoted to, but I did not sit here in the House at the time, as I said. But completely logically common sense. If, Mr colleague, through the President, Mr Bláha, for example, when you mentioned it here, today someone will nationalize your company, 40 years will somehow maintain it - not to maintain it, rather not to maintain it, then it will take another 20-25 years for someone to give you a refund, so you must take into account how long you yourself could not manage what you missed in that time. They'd be your descendants by then, by the way. So in this case, and I am saying this only on the basis of common sense, which I do not like to refer to in any way - but there is no comparison between the price of the land today, in 2018, for how much it was returned to or what compensation it was granted to. However, I would like to return in my contribution to why we are actually here today, December 13th, discussing an emergency meeting on the second reading of this law. We're witnessing today that the government coalition is working like clockwork, that it really works perfectly. The fact that if the movement YES and the ČSSD, the minority government is supported by the Communist Party, the Communist Party does not want it free of charge, demands something for it, is not enough, of course, just the posts here in the House, whether in the committees or the post of Vice-President of the House and others, but it is also about programme priorities. And one of the main ones that the Communist Party has drawn up is the proposal that we are discussing here today. This proposal will tell a lot about the respect of individual parties and the movement towards the rule of law. The Communist Party's attitude toward the rule of law was demonstrated by the Communist Party during the time they ruled here for decades. No, no, no, no, But the way you approach him is the way you others who have a chance of not supporting it, of course, so it tells especially about you. [[15.00 hours]] The coherence of the coalition is, of course, not only here, but also yesterday, when the European Parliament discussed subsidies for Agrofert, subsidies for the company he owned, or he has in his trust fund Prime Minister Babiš, when the communists vehemently defended the multimillionaires, and many others wondered how paradoxical it is in fact. We Čech may be more used to it today, but the outside view also doesn't hurt to notice that it isn't really a common situation, even from the point of view of ideas. When we're dealing with what churches or different statements are saying, what is a fact, what is not a fact, what is based on some clear evidence, on which some here want to make a decision, they need it for their decision, I think it's completely legitimate from colleagues and you should be able to defend it. It's obvious you're not. Let me quote something here, namely the statement of the Czech Bishops' Conference, the Ecumenical Council of Churches in the Czech Republic and the Federation of Jewish Communities in the Czech Republic to tax ecclesiastical restitutions. I quote: "This week we remember with great respect 70 years since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the UN General Assembly. Article 17 explicitly states that everyone has the right to own property and that no one is to be deliberately deprived of his property. Both totalitarian regimes, both Nazi and communist, have flagrantly and brutally violated this basic postulate. It is therefore outrageous that the proposal for the taxation of church restitutions, partial return of church property and partial compensation, i.e. the proposal to amend the law that attempted to correct historical injustices, the Communists submitted. And it is strange that their proposal is at all discussed by the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Those who point to the unconstitutional nature of this proposal rely on the Constitutional Court to repeal the proposed amendment if the law was adopted. From a legal point of view, this is very likely. This is said from the mouth of many politicians, and it is surprising that they are not just those who oppose such a course. It is politically cynical, irresponsible, and morally unacceptable to rely on the fact that other injustices will be stopped by the Constitutional Court. It's kind of a voter scam, and then they say it was an effort, but somehow it didn't work out. But, thanks to political discussions on questions relating to the return of property originally stolen from churches and religious societies, another round of public hatred against institutions that have struggled for years with deeply rooted prejudices and stereotypes will be unleashed. As several recent polls show, Europe today faces another strong wave of anti-Semitism and anti-Christian outbursts, along with the persecution of religious citizens. Czech society has always been characterized by critical thinking and has been rather restrained from many prejudices. This should continue to be the case. However, the debate on the partial return of church property and partial compensation and their taxation is in complete conflict with these historical values of ours. We therefore call on all those who want to continue to be decent, righteous people to reject this proposal forcefully. The President of the Czech Bishops Conference, Cardinal Dominik Duka, President of the Ecumenical Council of Churches in the Czech Republic, Daniel Ženatý and President of the Federation of Jewish Communities in the Czech Republic, signed in Prague on 12 Petr Papoušek. Yeah, that's what this is all about. Many rely on this, of course I do not want to touch anyone's conscience, let everyone answer it themselves, that the Constitutional Court will give the truth to all those who already refer to the expert opinions of renowned legal capacities today and who are already calling attention to the fact that the material we are dealing with here today shows the elements of unconstitutionality, goes against the basic law in our country, and rely on them to be out of the bond - we nothing, we musicians. At this point, it really is not just about whether something is possible morally, whether it is right - I do not think it is - but it is also about respect for legal principles. In this respect, the principle that the treaties apply is violated. The compensation is not paid only by law, it is primarily paid by contract, and the state will now say that the contracts do not apply. This significantly undermines citizens' confidence in the functioning of the rule of law in our country. If we're talking here, I don't want to run into historical contexts that have already been mentioned here in some speeches, that really very simple logic, that if something is stolen from you, then it's returned to you and you don't have to pay the tax, which I think is a very common thing that we understand. If we put it on any other material, on any other example, when some colleagues, such as Mr Filip or Mr Zaorálek and others, have already been mentioned here, if it is fair enough etc., I would like to say that if you, through the President's fellow Members, had a car stolen, someone would have been driving it with you, in some way would have taken care of it, but rather miserable, he would have crashed it several times, then he would have returned it to you and wanted you to pay the tax for returning it to you, so you would probably not have thought it right. I dare to speak for you, but I say we all agree on that here. And suddenly, in the case of church property, whether it concerns movable or immovable, it's supposed to be a completely different meter. Here on this bill, on his support and the final vote, there will be nothing but how many Bolsheviks we have in this House, no matter what side. Some of them are in KSČM, at least they're readable, and others will find out because of the vote. Therefore, I would end up entertaining the petitioner. [[Objection from the newsstand.]] The rapporteur, I'm sorry. Here the famous "Help me, hell will reward you." I think it's more than apt for church restitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u172	Thank you. Mr Bláha, after whom Mr Luzar, will respond with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u173	Colleagues, fellow Members, I would like to respond through the President, because it is simply different. It's just that we all agree that what's taken from someone should come back and that people should make amends, but we have to treat everyone the same way. If we have returned to normal people in the framework of restitution, and that is exactly what most people mind because they have also been taken away from something and something is returned and returned under some conditions, and suddenly something has been returned to someone and the field cannot be damaged, the forest, yes, can be cut off, but we're probably not talking about decapitated forests. And if the price within the restitutions was given to someone for a plot of ten crowns per metre and within the restitutions the churches were, we heard 440 crowns per metre, when the land was sold at that price, that's what bothers these people. Most people don't mind. And we're only here to discuss it with you, so that we can say it, so that we can justify it, so that we can understand it, and we have voted accordingly, and we have decided accordingly. Nothing more, nothing less. No one wants to deprive someone of their claim for a refund or compensation. And I appreciate the work of everyone who works within the churches that they do, I'm sure they deserve to be admired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u174	Thank you. Mr Luzar with a factual point, after which Vice-President Pikal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u175	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Allow me to respond to my colleague Pekarová Adamová through you. She used an interesting formulation, but I dare to correct them. If I used her philosophy, we should go back to the time of the White Mountain. And the Czech nobles were most affected and almost everything was stolen, what was subsequently stolen. So the parallel to the car would probably be: first I stole the car, then I repaired it and then I complain terribly that someone else stole it from me, and I ask the insurance company for a full refund. But these are history excursions, ancient history. [[15.10 hours]] If I used the parallel used by my colleague Bláha here through you, I'm not saying, of course, 1948 wasn't problematic. He was problematic. But let's see what happened before and what the moods were like in society and what the church property had been through a hundred years before, as the sinusoids - the increase in property, the decline in property and the relationship between the rulers and the church - had been going on in this Czech basin. And it also shows that the history of the church was not ideal here, the best, and when the bad communists came, they canceled everything and interrupted some beautiful stage of the development of church property. It wasn't at all, and the church was historically experiencing the sinuses and moving from one side to the other. As far as this law is concerned, we managed in 2012 to deflect the pendulum of absolute separation from the state's supervision of property and the influence of the state on property in their country on the one hand absolute, unlike the communists who did it after 1945 on the other hand. But we're trying to get that pendulum back into the sensible influence of the state on property in this country, the influence of the state on influencing the functioning of property and equality of property. Again, it is not natural persons, but mainly legal persons, ecclesiastical legal persons, where the 2012 law introduced enormous injustice and inequality, and therefore taxation is a solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u176	Vice-President Pikal, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u177	All I have to say is that it has been said that the forest or the field cannot be destroyed. So, of course, a forest or a field can be destroyed, either by drainage or by soaking or by environmental damage. I just want us to keep the reality at least here at this point and here at the counter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u178	Mr Jan Volný will respond with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u179	Thank you so much. By your means, let my colleague Pekarová, but even here, the previous speaker does not make us stupid. Yes, the fields can settle, they can destroy. Please, but why didn't you make it clear, purely, that the field wouldn't be 10 CZK per meter, but 5 CZK, because it's settled, and then there would be some amount of property damage to make it transparent. So why was 45 CZK paid for damaged fields instead of 10 CZK? I mean, that's completely illogical. And don't give us the benefit of the doubt that we don't want to compensate someone who's been taken away, hurt, and that we don't want to undo the wrongs of the past. On the contrary. I don't have a problem with church restitution. I don't have a problem with the separation of state and church. But we always wonder and shake our heads over the calculations from the beginning. And if it were built that way, for those hectares it's CZK 10 and then for the fact that you've lived up to us, that it's damaged, we'll give you another 50 billion, we'd probably say it's too much, but it would make sense. And not because you damaged it, so per hectare it won't be CZK 10, but CZK 45. What kind of logic is that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u180	Thank you. Mr Cernohorsky, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u181	Through Mr President, the pirát were not here at the time it was approved. So next time, maybe you should be more specific about the fact that the previous speaker was on our side. Otherwise, through Mr President, that is precisely why I want some analysis, not just some assessment of why the price has increased. Because as Mr Bláha, who is not here earlier, said, multiply it by some coefficient, that is precisely what cannot be done simply. Therefore, it would be a good reason or an explanation, because the explanatory note at the time it was presented here is not an ideal source of information for us to decide again whether or not it was overpriced in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u182	Thank you. We will now return to those who are enrolled in the general debate. Mr Beitl will appear, Mrs Kozlová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u183	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be able to respond to the previous debate either. Ladies and gentlemen, from the left to the center, please make a deal. [[shows]] It's either simple, or it's complicated. If it's easy, analyze it, don't say it costs $200 million, it can't be done. Mr Faltýnek, through the President, pulled a number out of his hat and wanted to compare something. Oh, my God, can't anybody take this seriously? Such a case as church restitution, it is, of course, thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of variables that need to be processed. And the way this debate is going on, it's really undignified. That was a reaction. And now for my main show. From the mouth of a Member, it was said that property is a temptation that has nothing to do with the evangelical message. I would like to say here now that I consider this to be a very unacceptable, purposeful shortcut, plus from a member of the party who stole and pillaged the church property. And not only did she steal the property, but she also perscussed, tortured, and killed church leaders. What matters is how property is handled. And if anyone here is trying to put on this problem a cartoon mask of couple illustrators from the 1950s depicting fat monks and priests robbing the working class, it's very unacceptable for me, too. But this cartoon is the reason why we've been sitting here for the seventh hour. In the face of the real tasks of the House, this is even less acceptable. Personally, I have acted many times as mayor and worked with representatives of the churches in our region. And if I may say something with certainty, it is that for people who work as believers in churches, personal financial motivation is last place, or does not exist at all. What these people want, however, is for them to have legal certainty, to keep to the concluded agreements, to properly manage their property, and to operate devices that are directly related to the evangelical message. And in connection with this, they must also employ people who expect wages in our country as usual. And any attacks, including this permanent lack of identification that we are showing here today, are directly threatening the operation of these institutions and facilities, whose benefits in the education and social care system are very difficult to question. Litoměřická diocese is one of the smaller ones, but on the territory of our region are the following: Antonín Brošovský Elementary School in Jablonec; Salesian Centre Štěpán Trochta - house of children and youth in Teplice; Bishop's Grammar School, Elementary School and Kindergarten in Bohosudov; General eight- and four-year grammar school in Varnsdorf; Czech-German Kindergarten svatý Zdislava v Litoměřice; Schrödingerův Institute in Varnsdorf - Leisure Centre - House of children and youth; Christian Elementary School of Nativity in Děčín; House of children and youth Salesian center Štěpán Trochta in Teplice. And I'm sure I can't forget the charity business either. And here I would mainly name the Hospice of St. Stephen in Litoměřice and the Diocese charity Litoměřice, which manages eleven professional and five voluntary charities in the territory of the diocese. And in order not only to stick to the Catholic Church, I must, of course, also pick up the Czech Evangelical Church's Diaconia, which is the second largest non-state social service organization in the Czech Republic. And it is these organisations that help thousands of people every day in adverse situations, organise humanitarian aid in the Czech Republic and development cooperation abroad, and also organise thousands of professional workers and volunteers in these activities. I am truly apologizing at this point to all those whom I have forgotten at the moment and which I have not named, but I also apologize to all those who have dedicated their lives to their work and faith for the arguments that today must be heard from the mouths of those who have robbed them. It's already gone down in the global. The purpose of this meeting is to continue the communist war against the Church. It is just a wonder to me how many Members participate in this war. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u184	Thank you. The next enrollment is Mrs Kozlová. But Mrs Kozlová apologized between 15 and 16 o'clock, so she is absent at the moment. It's Mr. Jurečka's turn. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u185	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, dear and esteemed colleagues, let me focus on four areas in my speech. Because in the previous speeches during the seven hours, things such as how and whether the Church has acquired its assets in history legitimately, what it is using it for, how the process of pricing the settlement was made, the question of legitimacy in terms of assessment by the Constitutional Court, and then, of course, the course of the last nearly five years of factual settlement and transfer of property under this law, which we are discussing here today, let me quote and mention some of the parts that are from the scientific publication of the Church property in the transformations of time. The church acquired movable and immovable property in a manner that was normal at the time, by its own management, by purchase and donation. The most common way to acquire church property from the earliest times was to donate. In today's concept, we could talk about the acquisition of a kind of donation contract. In doing so, it is not possible to refer to church property as a single unit and the church as a single owner. All property and property rights were intended to ensure the operation of the Church. In particular, this meant that in the case of the establishment of a bishopship, abbey or church, it was necessary to establish the necessary economic base, which served to ensure the overall operation of a specific institution. Clerics' nutrition, operation and maintenance of buildings, in a broader sense the operation of cultural, charitable, medical or educational activities. Similarly, some of the land belonged to churches and their proceeds were repaired by the church and other church facilities, which included it. Both legal documents and legislation on this issue in various historical developments confirm the nature of church ownership sufficiently. For a closer knowledge of the organization of land holdings of church feudals, I would like to imagine e.g. the charter of the collegial church of litoměřice from 1057. According to her, Prince Spytihnev Spytihněv the church materially by giving him 14 whole villages occupied by independent farmers and six whole villages intended for subjects - plowers, servants, craftsmen - mostly with all accessories, namely with forests and plowing courtyards. He also gave the church two vineyards with seven winemakers and separate peasants established in different settlements, plus six people obliged to take honey out of bee gardens each year. Similarly, it is in the list of Bishop Jindřich Zdík of Olomouc on the transfer of the Bishop's church from svatý Petr to svatý Václav dated in 1141. It contains a list of assets belonging to the new church of residence. Also in the earth's records of the reign of King Přemysl Otakar II. written evidence is found that church entities such as bishopship, capitals, parishes are owners of their property. In the Middle Ages, most monasteries received land from rulers with a gift. It should be noted, however, that this gift of the monarch was in no way free of charge, unlike gifts in modern legal terms. In fact, the church was to build monasteries, cultivate the material landscape and the spiritual society living in it. Thus the order of the Cistercians was given the most frequently inaccessible forest forests, such as the Upper Brod, or swamps, such as Velehrad, which had to be dried first and built on them a monastery, farm buildings or a settlement. These are clear historical sources that document how in the past the Church has acquired property in various stages of our past, and it is also quite well archived and documented in historical documents. Of course, it is also necessary to list here what the church's property is also for. My previous speaker here has been mentioned current needs, which the church in society satisfies and ensures. However, we also need to look into the past. Churches, like other institutions, cannot, of course, live out of air and water and need adequate possessions for their lives. In the past and in the present, it serves not only to provide spiritual service, but to provide an important function for the development of cultural, scientific and social activities. In this context, it cannot be forgotten that perhaps in all areas of the development of Western civilization, the churches were one of the driving forces. The clergy of various confesities stood at the birth of the conveniences of modern science and technology, as evidenced by, for example, the hamr of the Cistercian Abbey or the astronomical observatory Klementinum. Without their initiative, many great architectural and sculptural works and creations of the human spirit would not be created, as they testify to artistic treasures scattered around the Czech and Moravian countryside. The history of genetics as a science, Renaissance and Baroque art, literary humanism is difficult to think without a church deposit. The concept of equality before boh, the idea of dignity of man, the concept of charity as virtue are also inseparably linked to Christianity and the carriers of its tradition, i.e. churches. This does not change the fact that a number of knowledge was mediated by the Church from previous cultures, e.g. Jewish, Greek or Roman. The unique wealth of the previous culture was preserved and developed almost exclusively in monasteries for the first 600 years of the Middle Ages of the Latin world. The vast influence of monasteries on the development of culture in the broadest sense from the demise of the Roman Empire to the peak of the Middle Ages to the scientific and technical revolution of the beginning of the modern era is still being discovered and thought through. The culture here is meant the culture of spiritual and material, which slowly penetrated the then population thanks to a densely branched network of especially Benedictine monasteries. At the time of the high Middle Ages, nearly 30,000 of these church institutions were active in Europe. The contribution of the church, by its institutions, is thus evident mainly in the field of cultural and economic, and is then present in its irreplaceable mission in the field of education, education, and also law, as canon law has absorbed essential elements of Roman law. Mr Leo Luzar mentioned, for example, the issue of possible illegal support. So let me say here that the law neither admits nor contains a unilateral and unjustified advantage for the churches over other groups of restitutionists. The essence and purpose of the proposed law is to reconcile the relationship between the State and the churches and religious societies and to establish qualitatively new property relations between those entities. The issue of the original property of churches and religious societies is only one part of the settlement of these relations. It must be pointed out that it was not primarily directed against the property rights of individual church entities, especially monasteries, after 1948, but the main objective was the definitive destruction of the economic independence of churches and the liquidation of religious freedom by then ruling communists. The proposed law thus leads not only to the restitution of property itself, but above all to the restoration of the independent position of the churches. [[15.30 hours]] If we look at the question of the extent of the property which was subsequently issued, the main criterion for determining the extent of immovable property in the original ownership of churches and religious companies became the registration of this immovable property in the administration of the Land Fund of the Czech Republic and the exercise of the right of management of the former Church property of the Forests of the Czech Republic, the Military Forests and Property, the Office for State representation in property matters and data transferred by the Union of Towns and Municipalities. This collected evidence was compared with the records provided by church and religious societies and further compared with the archives relating to the conservation of church land during land reforms. Forests of the Czech Republic, s. p., registered as at 28. 2. 2011 in its administration the original property of churches and religious societies with a total area of 151 777 hectares of forest land, 33.7 hectares of land built areas and courtyards and 11.7 hectares of built-up areas of buildings. And this is how I could continue with the other bodies of the state, possibly other departments, with this list. I mean here that the process was neither rash nor hasty, but for quite a long time, apart from political discussions, analytical evidence was prepared then for the upcoming stage of the issue or valuation of property. I would like to mention the question of the way in which the appreciation of the former church property was based on the following premises: The award made is intended to represent the real present value of property that has been unlawfully removed from the churches in the past and which, as a result, could not be used and benefited from it. The main principle is the arrangement of property relationships between the state and the churches and religious societies in order to gradually establish a model of self-financing of churches and religious societies and their complete economic separation from the state. Unlike restitution under the Land Act, in the case of property settlement of relations between the State and the churches and religious companies, it was assumed that natural restitution would only be a partial means of property compensation, because the person liable will only be the State. By contrast, municipalities, regions, natural persons or non-State legal persons are not obliged to issue property under the proposed property compensation law and therefore retain property in their possession. For the purpose of valuation of the original church property, average prices of immovable property in the Czech Republic were used based on statistical methods and expert estimates, which were subsequently applied to the original property of churches and religious societies. The results of this calculation were then compared by the Ministry of Agriculture with the survey of market prices for agricultural and forestry land listed in the studies of the Agricultural Research Institute. After comparing the prices of agricultural land on the Czech market, it was found that the valuation of the original church property carried out in the submitted material corresponded to market prices. The result of the evaluation was the appreciation of the various types of immovable property of churches and religious societies. The question of the Constitutional Court's assessment of this law was also questioned here, and it is evident here that the objections raised here were not considered relevant by the Constitutional Court. However, if we look at the process that's been going on for four years, the process has been monitored very closely. A commission was set up here at the level of the government, where the Ministry of Finance departments, the Office of the Government, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Agriculture were represented. Regularly every quarter of a year, this whole process of issuing state property at these meetings of this inter-ministerial team has been assessed. For four years, neither the representatives of the ČSSD nor the ANO movement have raised objections to the fact that this process is in conflict with the law that property should not be issued. I am therefore surprised by today's approach by the current representatives of these two political parties or movements that are in the government coalition. When this process was set up four years ago, they did not raise these questions which, from my point of view, are somewhat purposeful today and now. I think it is quite amateur if we are here to adopt or to adopt a law which, in such a fundamental way, enters property rights, the predictability of the legal environment in the Czech Republic and, at the same time, the revenue of the state budget, that there is no relevant analysis that some here have relied on rhetorically, but to this day on this law, they are not able to present such an analysis for this discussion. This is an example of the fact that this is not a factual assessment of the state of affairs, of the objectivity that some have referred to here, such as Mr Zaorálek, the search for the greatest possible justice that we are able to achieve, but this is a kind of bullet, an estimate that is not supported by anything, and more or less a political assault on the activities of churches and religious societies that provide the services of the entire society. Who you have ever been in the last few months within your parliamentary districts, for example, in the educational or charity facilities provided by churches and religious societies here, you can see that if these organisations worked only from the contributions of the state that the state provides for these services, they would not be able to secure such quality and scope of these services. For example, you know that in the long term there is a system where, for example, the issue of funding education, salaries are simply applied to church and private subjects in the field of education with a certain delay of one year. But there are many facilities that, in terms of their investment activity, the restoration of these properties, could not have worked if the church or churches had not put their own capital into these buildings. There's one more thing I want to mention. Here is the question of the amount of compensation paid. But has anyone also considered that, compared to most of the restitutionists, this situation here lasted 25 years before he settled? And unfortunately, most of these buildings not only have been under the control of the communist government for 40 years, but most of those 25 years have become quite a stepmother against the property that was to be returned. Personally, when I saw many of these buildings, and they were perhaps historically very valuable buildings, I was ashamed to say that we are returning such property to the churches today after 65 years. Who knows, for example, the objects of the Želiv monastery, so this is a beautiful phenomenon of how the state took property in 1948 and in what condition it returned after 65 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u186	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Luzar will respond with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u187	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Allow me to react briefly by means of you to the words of the previous speaker. It was said here that church property is really only for the benefit of society, and therefore we should treat it this way. I would like to point out the experience from abroad where the church and church legal entities have behaved as entrepreneurs for many years and have been operating in this way, making considerable profits. If you remember the second largest forest owner in the Czech Republic, which is the church, how it will manage the forest material as a proper farmer, and I assume that it will evaluate it and will greatly influence the wood market and other commodities that the forest provides. With regard to breweries, the sale of beverages and others that the church is already economically carrying out today, these are all the business activities of church legal entities, which are very clearly and clearly affecting the market. Let's just say that. Even the Czech Republic has experience in case law, when at its time the telecommunication operator, called O2, was sued by a church company that issued a similar O2 energy drink. He won this one. It's all part of that law study I took the liberty of talking about at first. With regard to the size of the land that is so quoted here, I would like to point out the great contradictions that have been made in the preparation of this material, and you can look at it in this report. And at the end of the day, there was some sort of inter-resurrection committee. Let's see who was on that committee, how it was composed. They were politicians, they were ministers! The officials who prepared it were not allowed to do so, so that they could debate and clarify these matters. And that decision and a clear assignment there was like a red thread through the whole negotiation within the framework of church restitutions. Other opinions were not allowed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u188	Mr Grospič, Mr Jurečka, followed by Mr Grospič, made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u189	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would also like to say to Mr Jurečka that it would be good to remember that, on the basis of the enumeration law No. 298/1990 Coll., on the adaptation of some property relations of religious orders and congregations and the Archbishopship of Olomouc, and then its amendments No. 338/1991 Sb., which was adopted by the then Federal Assembly, was handed over to religious orders, congregations and the Olomouc Archbishopship with a total value of about 170 objects. But I don't think that's crucial right now. The important thing is that Archbishop František Tomášek, then in Prague, commented that it was the last claim the churches made and that they were settled. However, in those years following, 1997 to 1998, nearly two thousand real estates were issued to churches and religious orders on the basis of this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u190	Thank you. Mr Jurečka and his factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u191	Thank you. So this is where the inter-resort group was mentioned by the politicians sitting there in quotes and the assignment was clear. I'll just remind you who the politicians were sitting there. Prime Minister Sobotka was in charge of the group, so the Social Democrats were represented there. Then the Minister of Finance, the Andrej Babiš, Prime Minister of the day, so the ANO movement was represented there. And then two ministers - yes, my name and my colleague Daniel Herman, because two resorts like culture and agriculture had something to say. However, experts from individual departments were also regularly present at these meetings, including e.g. representatives of such institutions as the State Land Office, Forests of the Czech Republic, National Heritage Institute. So it's not true that five members of the government would meet there and say to themselves over coffee how cool it is, how it all runs. The discussions were held there quite in detail, and many of the discussions were dominated by the very professional staff of the ministries or institutions. That's all it takes to finish.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u192	Thank you. Mrs Kozlová, who is not yet here, is yet signed up for the general debate. So I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. Yes, the Minister is still reporting for the debate. Before the Minister arrives, I'll introduce you to the apologies that have come in the meantime. Mr Plzák apologizes from 15.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons, Vice-President Pikal from 15.30 to 17.00 for working reasons, Mr Adam Kalous between 1545 and 19.00 for work reasons, Ms Květa Matušovská from 14.30 to the end of the day for work reasons, Mr Jaroslav Holík apologises from 15.00 to the end of the meeting, and Mrs Ivana Nevludová apologises from 15.00 to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u193	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to conclude by responding to some of the comments that have been made here in the general debate. Once again, I strongly reject it when we want to correct the historic injustice created by a truly well-meaning correction of the historical injustice of another, when we are being pushed aside, that we do not respect the rule of law. It's demagogy. No one ever said anything like that. Furthermore, I would like to say that here, indeed, the ecvilibristism of colleagues from the right, about the fact that it is the Church, that it is the believers. No one denies the churches or the believers anything they have the right to. It's not about churches, it's not about believers, it's just about correcting the wrong law. And that the role of the Constitutional Court would be questioned here? There's never been anything like that here. However, Mr Jurečka, through you, Mr President, spoke of some figures. We are talking here about the fact that taxing the financial compensation proposed in the law at a rate of 19 percent would mean an annual savings of some 380 million in financial terms for the state budget. CZK, which is the total compensation of CZK 59 billion. is really a fraction. And overall, this would mean about 9 billion of what has not yet been paid out. 35 miles. Crowns. And perhaps one last comment on one thing that didn't come out. Here it is said that this is an entirely extraordinary matter in relation to a decision on an additional taxation of one or the other. Thus, I can say that it is possible to refer to a number of species, in fact very similar examples, in which the Constitutional Court failed to comply with the proposal to abolish the laws. These are cases of taxation of aid paid to solar power plants operators. This is a case of taxation for the detention of members of the armed forces and armed forces. But in particular, and I would draw attention to this, a completely unprecedented change in the conditions for granting state aid in the event of building savings. It is common for all these cases that these were additional amendments to the previously agreed conditions, breaches of legal certainty and legitimate expectations and, in the case of building savings, an intervention in legal relations established by a freely negotiated contract. How many young people have been ready to sign a mortgage agreement so that eventually, thanks to this retroactive change, their eyes will remain for crying? So don't say this is a purposeful matter. And neither of them were left-handed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u194	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I am not going to close the general debate yet, Mr Benda has made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u195	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. I think it is necessary to test whether there are all the supporters of church restitutions, taxation of church restitutions, especially those of the Communist Party who preached most to us, and I suggest that we interrupt negotiations by 1. 1st next year, because I find it awkward for us to deal with this law before Christmas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u196	There was a procedural proposal which complies with the requirements of the Rules of Procedure. I'll put it to a vote. I'll have you all checked out on request. I beg you all to sign up with your voting cards. I have pointed out to all Members that we are going to vote, and I have summoned them from the lobby. [[He's waiting a while.]] And I am opening the vote on Mr Benda's proposal. Who's in? Excuse me. I did not keep an eye on the moment when I started the vote in order for the quorum to be needed, so I am ending the vote. I declare the vote void. [[63 Members are present in the hall.]] We do not have enough Members to vote. [[The President is waiting.]] We cannot vote on this proposal because there is not enough of us in the hall and we need to achieve the number that we do not have. I can't start the vote, but we can move on. [[He's waiting a while.]] So I'm interrupting the House of Deputies... Yes, I'm not interrupting yet. I'll give the floor to President Chvojka with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u197	I'd like to interrupt, but I think it would take five minutes for everyone to really have a chance. Those who aren't here yet to come. Ten minutes, please break, ten minutes, respectively. A.K.A. break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u198	If I understand correctly, you're asking for a ten-minute break at the ČSSD MP's meeting. Yes, I can grant such a request. I'm interrupting the meeting until 3:59 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u199	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, it is 3:59 a.m., we will continue the negotiations. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if there was not a sufficient number of Members to vote, I would interrupt the negotiations for a certain period of time. This was resolved by the fact that the President of the ČSSD MP took a break at the meeting of his club. Now that we have met again, I am only going to vote on Mr Benda's procedural proposal. I hear an application for check-out. I checked you out. Please log in again with your voting cards. I would remind you that a procedural proposal has been made here to interrupt the discussion of this point by 1. 1. 2019. There's enough of us. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 7, 101 Members registered, for 32, versus 57. The motion was not accepted. Is anyone else reporting for the general debate, please? No one is to be heard in the general debate, and I am done with the general debate. Is there interest in final words? There's no interest in final words. I am opening up a detailed debate. Mr Benda is entered into a detailed debate. Mr. Feri will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u200	Mr Vice-President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have only one proposal in a detailed debate, namely the effectiveness that is proposed at this point in time for 1. 1. 2019. The Constitutional Committee proposes 1. 1. 2020, quite logically. My proposal is to make it effective from 1. 1. 2021, because it is quite obvious that the bill will be moving for some time between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, and that it would be right for it to come into force before it comes into force, if it were to happen and there would be compensation taxation, to be judged by the Constitutional Court, because I am deeply convinced that it cannot pass the constitutional test. Therefore, I propose that we postpone efficiency to 1. 1. 2021. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u201	Yes, thank you. Mr Feri in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u202	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable members of the government that has been stolen by the state should be returned. I think that's natural. Of course, a positive right can be changed differently, bent differently, but if it were done, it would be grossly unfair. For this reason, I am signing up for the motion to reject this proposal in the third reading that I made in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u203	Thank you. Mr Výborný is also reporting to the detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u204	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I just wanted to say that in the Houses of Documents under 1965, the same proposal was made here by Mr Benda, President of the Constitutional Legal Committee. He has justified it as well as is justified in it, or I do not need it here at this time to apply to it in the second reading, because it is exactly the same as the proposal read by Mr Benda, or to postpone the effectiveness of any possible adoption of the law from 1. 1. 2021, which is nothing obstructive. It is indeed an effort to avoid, where appropriate, the state of legal uncertainty, which could be raised here by any subsequent decision of the Constitutional Court, which is expected to assess the constitutionality of the adopted amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-13-ps2017-025-01-001-001.u205	Thank you. From today's meeting from 15.50 to 21:00, Mr. Jiří Kobza apologizes for the meeting in the electoral region. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? No one is reporting for a detailed debate, and I am ending the detailed debate. I ask whether there is an interest in the final words by the appellant, the rapporteur. It's not. I note that there has been a motion to reject the hearing of the law, which will be voted in the third reading. Otherwise, there have been no proposals that should now be dealt with by the vote. That is why I am ending the second reading of this proposal. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I note that we have discussed the programme set out for the 25th session of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am now ending.
