ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-006-010.u1	10. The proposal of Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue a law amending Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations, as amended /German press 69/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 69/1. I would... it says here that the plaintiff should be me personally, but we do have a proposal for Mr Radek to be the plaintiff. So we would proceed to the vote, if we agree to the amendment of the appellant... [[A reminder off the microphone.]] It's not necessary, not with the plaintiff. Okay, with the newsletter, sorry, yes. So I would like to ask Mr Radek to take the Rozvoral if he would present the proposal for the plaintiff. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-006-010.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, esteemed members of the government, our SPD movement presents an amendment to Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations, which is conducted by an effort to define clearly the obligation of stakeholders to take care of the state's property properly, that is to say to act as a proper economic operator. The existing laws do not provide for a sufficiently specific and unambiguous obligation to care properly for property for official persons under Section 127 of the new Criminal Code, meaning both a official, usually an elected politician, and an official as an impartial expert. This is different from the members of private legal entities, from associations to public limited companies. Lawyer and university teacher profesor. Bejček emphasizes in his definition of care to the proper economy the appropriate expertise and loyalty to the interests of society. Loyalty is considered to be part of the care of a proper economy, and it emphasizes that the benefit of society is always superior to the benefit of its own. Prof. Černá adds that for the proper performance of the duties of a member of the board of directors, the degree and quality of care of the company's affairs is required, which will be done by a careful and duly acting economic operator. The specific content of the duty to perform a function with the care of a proper economy is a matter of interpretation and includes diligence and caution in the performance of the duties, professional management of the company, which also entails the ability to recognise the need for professional assessment of the matter by another specialist, since each member of the board of directors may not be an expert in all areas of the company's activities. Important conceptual attributes of care to a proper economy are, for example, defined in the Commercial Corporations Act and include carefulness, necessary knowledge, business decision making, good faith, reasonable assumption, informed behaviour, negotiations in the defendable interest of a commercial corporation and necessary loyalty. Other attributes are management obligations and liability in the management of state property. The State's assets must be used efficiently and economically, to carry out the functions of the State and to carry out the specified activities. The organizational component shall act in such a way that the property does not harm its actions and does not unduly reduce its scope and value or yield on that property. The determination of liability for State property management is another important component of good governance and property protection and should be a matter of course. We can divide responsibility into two categories. First, responsibility for breach of obligations in the management of state property. This is both the responsibility of natural persons and, on the one hand, the responsibility of the organisational components of the state and state organisations. Secondly, liability for damage, namely liability for damage caused by the State and liability for damage caused by employees and third parties. A good farmer does legal acts concerning the management of state property responsibly and conscientiously and in the same way cares for state property as if it were property of his own, but with resignation to his personal interests if they could cross with the interests of the representing object. With this draft law, we want to define clearly and unambiguously the responsibility of the responsible, so that these properly care for the state's property, and thus act as a proper economic operator. So for our SPD movement, I beg you to release this bill to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-006-010.u3	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading by Mr Jan Řehounek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-006-010.u4	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to me to comment on the proposal tabled here, the House Press 69, the amendment to the Act on the Property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations. The existing laws, according to the petitioners, do not provide for a sufficiently specific and unambiguous obligation to care properly for property for official persons under Section 127 of the new Criminal Code, which means both a official, usually a elected politician and an official. This is different from the members of private legal entities, from associations to public limited companies, to which this obligation is imposed by the Civil Code. In this press, therefore, the appellants propose in their basic responsibilities in the management of the State's assets to establish that the property must be managed by an organizational component, a head of organization or a senior staff member, as well as by persons entrusted by them to the extent of their powers by a special law or by an internal act of procedure always with the care of a proper economic operator. The petitioners also argue with a number of SAO conclusions, in which he stated the inefficient and inefficient handling of the state's assets and funds. During the previous parliamentary term similar proposals were tabled and rejected as redundant and non-systemic. The legislation in force on the management of the property of the State contains an adjustment to the care of that property. Section 47 of the Act on the Property of the Czech Republic sets out a requirement for professional care, which is in my opinion at a qualitatively higher level than the petitioner's promoted care to a proper economy, but other laws on the management of state property such as the Act on budgetary rules and, above all, the Act on financial control impose on the state authorities the treatment of state property economically, efficiently and effectively. The liability of natural persons to whom these requirements apply is also adjusted, as according to § 47 para. 2 The property law of the Czech Republic is responsible for the breach of certain obligations and for the damage suffered by the State to the extent of criminal law, employment and civil law. From a subjective point of view, it is difficult to judge which expression has greater legal strength and greater legal enforcement. The turnover of care to a proper economy contains the above-mentioned laws, and we can therefore see the petitioners' proposal as such, which will result in a reconciliation of concepts in related legislation. In my opinion, the proposed amendment cannot in itself lead to a solution to the problem that the petitioners point to. For this reason, it would be good to look even further and more closely at the issue, and I therefore recommend that the press be moved to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-006-010.u5	Thank you. I hereby open a general debate. Since I'd like to step out, I'll ask Vice President Pikal for a short replacement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-006-010.u6	Good afternoon again. I beg you, Mr. Vice-President Tomio Okamura's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-006-010.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me briefly to present our draft law on the property of the Czech Republic. It is basically that the aim of this proposal is that we impose public property on persons who manage property or funds of the Czech Republic or public money, public property, also the obligation to manage them with the so-called care of a proper economy. It is a term that is, of course, widely known, but the existing laws in the sector of the administration of state property and public funds do not provide for a sufficiently specific and unambiguous obligation to take care of property properly for official persons, which means the various officials, etc. It is true that, at first sight, this issue is already legislatively regulated, but unfortunately, and quite provenly little visible, and in many respects in an ambiguous way, which gives much room for speculation and, in particular, real inefficiency in the recovery of damages in the inefficient management of entrusted property or funds by the State, about the introduction of liability for improper and unlawful procedure, not to mention. For this reason, we believe that the proposed proposal is not duplicated, which I will also state in the future on specific examples, but, on the contrary, it sets out very well and clearly the current legislation. The need to adopt a clarification of the existing legislation so that, of course, the person who is supposed to take care of public funds is spoken of executively, and the property, in order to really clarify this obligation, shows a number of cases from the past. And these cases are still under way and new ones are being opened, they are being dealt with by the Supreme Audit Office, the Police of the Czech Republic, and such cases were not quite clear on the basis of existing legislation, it was not possible to clearly determine the responsibility of individual responsible persons, but also the organisations and participants of these relations. [[16.30 hours]] If I give an example - and look at the audit work of the Supreme Audit Office and the conclusions of this control activity, which clearly and specifically shows that there has been an inefficient and ineffective management of the state's assets and funds. This is, for example, when we look at control action number 16/04 at the Ministry of Health in connection with the activities of the long-term loss-making state enterprise BALMED Praha, or control action number 15/25 at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which did not proceed economically and effectively in the application of the state's rights as owner of real estate with damage of at least CZK 2.2 million, or control action number 15/30 at the services of the Ministry of Interior, where the so-called free provision of services within the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic was not in accordance with the budgetary rules and the system thus set directly did not create conditions for the economic use of funds of the State, which resulted in a reduction of the amount of possible rent by CZK 8 million. And in this list I could continue, when, on the basis of the findings of the Supreme Audit Office, the damage was caused in the order of CZK million, in terms of the disposal of the state's assets and funds, but due to the current unclear legislation, everything was finished only by the finding of the Supreme Audit Office without being affected by specific but always responsible persons. And that is the problem that we think that those persons who directly manage funds or the property of the state should have material responsibility. And it's quite common from any normal private employment relationship and in other similar areas. So when applying our proposal, if this quite simple amendment of the law came into force, the found error would be indisputable with the possibility of effective not only solutions with responsible persons, but also clear enforcement of the secondary obligation of these persons. Surely this will also bring so much demand for prevention against the ever more frequent cases of inadequate and inefficient management of state property and money, if the direct responsibility of the person in charge is more clearly decoyable. As regards the concept of proper care, I would like to add here that such care involves not only the care of property, so that it does not cause damage to its loss or impairment, but also to evaluate the property on the contrary and increase it to the maximum extent possible, which is currently achievable. This term of care also includes a duty of loyalty in the interests of and representation for a legal person. Which we know is also a problematic moment at the moment, where there are still various cases, where the very loyal behaviour and in the interest of the person, in this case of the state, is sometimes not necessary and we are actually hard to get to that obligation. Otherwise, when I develop a little bit of the term of care for a proper economy, of course, it is considered that even one who is not capable of this care is careless, although he had to find out when he is in office or performing it, and does not result in consequences for himself. Or, if this is a very important moment, which is not too much to point out, but I would like to point out to him that it is important that, in positions and in positions where state funds or property are being managed, there really are experts and there are no nominees, I don't want to say what they are, but simply nominants who do not meet the expertise, so basically if the care of the proper manager were there, then basically the person who would not be expertly competent, and yet would still accept such a function or would somehow want to perform such a function and would be aware that it is not eligible, so it is already a violation of the care of the proper economy. And I think that it is also an important moment where we can increase the expertise, the expertise of people who manage public funds. The procedure with care of a proper economic operator does not provide for the equipment of professional knowledge related to that function. That's from the deadline. It only involves the obligation to recognise the need for professional assistance, so that specially qualified persons, and to provide such assistance. So even if we put the proper care down, it still leaves sufficient boundaries for the job. But the important thing is that the final result is the expertise, the final result is the professionalism. So we don't have to worry about narrowing the boundaries around here so that then there's no need to find anyone or that there's basically no one to do it. It is therefore necessary to appeal to the state, its organisational units and organisations to represent professionals, as those standards remain the professional. Finally, I would like to evaluate the expected financial and economic impact, especially on the state budget, by applying the budgets of the regions and municipalities. So, of course, it is based on the principle of our proposal, the impact on the state budget, or the budgets of the regions and municipalities will be literally positive. It can in no way be negative, because it will be positive especially in the efficiency of the economy in the management of entrusted state assets, the management of entrusted funds, but also in clarity and also in better efficiency in the recovery and recovery of damage caused by inefficient management of assets and public funds. Otherwise, I noticed a little bit when I was discussing this with some of the Members from other parties that someone had the impression that the proposal was not necessary to prepare well enough. So I wanted to assure you that it is because this proposal has been passed both by the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies and by the Parliamentary Institute. So he's been consulted twice, so it's perfectly legislative and there's no need to doubt legislative correctness. It's just a political debate. So I would like to ask for your support with this, and let's discuss any adjustments if anyone would like to read second. And, of course, we are absolutely open to the debate, because I think it's everyone's interest in making the adjustment more precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-006-010.u8	I also thank you and the only application I have from the hall was submitted to me by Mr. Michálek. So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-006-010.u9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also state for the Pirates Club that one of the programme points we wanted to promote is the personal responsibility of politicians and officials for the work they do in the public sector. That is why, in general, we support the idea, although I think that the processing will still pass through a rather large set of amendments at second reading. And I wanted to say one more thing about my personal experience, what the responsibility of politicians or officials really looks like. I found out at a meeting with the chairman of the Supreme Audit Office how the so-called regression works in reality. If the State imposes a fine on an office, for example, because it violates public procurement rules and causes damage, the caselaw concludes, at least so says the President of the Supreme Audit Office, that no damage has been caused, because the State pays the damage from one pocket to another, and therefore it is not possible to recover the damage even after the final official. That sounds like nonsense to me. And if there are different legal opinions on this question, then we should also do this in further law processing at second reading. I would like to make this very clear. So if an employee, and he should have the appropriate reward given the damage he's liable for, then if he's really gonna cause any damage, he's gonna be responsible for it under the Labour Code and the regression was enforced on him. Unfortunately, in reality, when I came to the Prague City Council, the damages commission only worked there on paper, the damage was not recovered. An example can be the fine received by the capital city of Prague in 2012 for the Opencard case of one million crowns. This went on for five years, and in 2017, the Supreme Administrative Court confirmed that the fine for the Opencard case of CZK 1 million was paid. And who do you think was responsible for that, the million that Prague had to pay out of its budget paid by the citizens of the capital city of Prague? The law firm was working on it, the officials were working on it, politicians approved it, and no one was responsible. That's right, you guessed. So this is a fundamental mistake that we would like to remedy in the context of further deliberation of this bill so that there really is accountability for decisions taken, so that there is liability for damage both at the level of self-government and at the level of the state, even though the fines are imposed by the State to another state institution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-006-010.u10	I thank Mr Michálek and I have just one more point of fact. So, Professor Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-006-010.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I am just pointing out here that I will again vote in favour of the commandments of the Constitutional Legal Committee, so for these reasons I would like to mention in my point of fact that the idea is very good, its implementation requires further alienation and, above all, interconnection with other relevant legislation, so that it is not removed from a context like this. So I will vote in favour of this proposal, but it is very important that we bring this press into line with the other legal standards that are in force here, as my previous speaker, by your means, Mr Michálek, has indicated, through the amendments to the parliamentary proposals. We will, of course, vote in favour of the ANO, because we also agree to increase the responsibility for the management of the organizational components, the management of the organizational units and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-006-010.u12	Thank you, Professor Válková, and I have another point of fact here. Mr. Gazdík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-006-010.u13	It was proper, but hopefully I can make it in two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I also consider this bill to be a bit redundant, but I agree with my previous speaker, Mr Michálek. It was the starosta who have proposed three times in the House a law on the liability of officials for damage caused. He even reached the third reading twice, where he and ODS rejected this law together. The law is very simple. He says that if an official causes unintentional damage, he should be enforced up to four times his salary. If it causes deliberate damage, it should be enforced in full. I believe that if this proposal goes to second reading, I believe that together with the SPD's plaintiffs, together with fellow Pirates, you will support this amendment and we will finally take the responsibility of the officials for the damage caused. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-006-010.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have no application here for a general debate, nor any factual one, so I am ending the general debate. I'll ask the plaintiff's representative, the rapporteur, if you're interested in the final words? You are not interested - you are interested, so yes, please the rapporteur, Mr Řehounek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-006-010.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I would really just repeat what has been said here, which means I suggest we start second reading, and at the same time I would like to ask the House for the approval of the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. And only a brief response to my previous speaker, Mr. Gazdík, through you. If I'm not mistaken, it's four-and-a-half times in the insanity, not four-fold.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-006-010.u16	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Řehounek, for the final word. I don't have a motion to dismiss and all that, so we're going to deal with a motion for a commandment to committees for discussion. So first of all, we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. I ask another question - I have noted the proposal for a constitutional committee, I ask if anyone has a proposal for another other than a constitutional committee. No. So I'm gonna write another D.A.P. We shall now proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be directed to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote now. Please, who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. [[Voices from the diaper about the checkout.]] I didn't have a check-out application. Voting number 38. 161 Members registered, for 131, against zero, abstained from 30. The proposal was directed to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. We have another motion for a commandment, and it is a motion for a commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee. I'm opening the vote. Those in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 39. 161 Member, registered for 144 versus zero, abstained 17. Result: accepted. So I note that this proposal has also been directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee. That concludes the discussion of this press for the moment. We're going to move on to the next proposal, and that's it.
