ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-27-ps2017-011-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 11th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. I'm going to ask you to settle in your seats and keep your voice down. The noise level is too high to start discussing another meeting. Thank you. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 54 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on Thursday 22 March of this year. Now, I'm going to ask you all to sign up with your cards or tell me who votes with the spare card. My colleague Pražák reported card number 1. He'll vote with replacement card number one. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Leo Luzar and Mr Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Does anyone else have a proposal for the verifier of this 11th meeting? [[No one checked in.]] If that is not the case, I shall initiate the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 1, registered at the moment 142 Members, for 135, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have designated Mr Leo Luzar and Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová as verifiers of the 11th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Furthermore, I say that for reasons of health, Jiří Běhounek for reasons of work, Jan Birke for reasons of work, Stanislav Blaha for Okleštěk of health, Andrea Brzobohatá for reasons of health, Alexander Černý for personal Rakušan, Petr Dolínek until 15.30 for Ladislav of work, Petr Gazdík for reasons of health, Tereza Hyťhová for personal reasons, Miloslav Janulík until 16.30 for reasons of work, František Kopřiva between 17 and 18 hours for reasons of work, Robert králíček for reasons of employment, Jana Lipavskýý for Vildumetzová of foreign travel, Jana Lipavský for reasons of family reasons, Květa Matyášovská for Matušovská of health, Eva Matyášová for Ivan of work for Staněk of employment, Petr Pávek for family reasons, Mikuláš Peksa for reasons of foreign travel, Ivo Pojezný for Vondrák of foreign travel, Ondřejon Profant for reasons of Ondřej reasons, Karel, for Tureček of work of the reasons of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic, Czech Republic of the Czech Republic V for reasons of employment. From the members of the government, Alena Schillerová is excused by 15.30, but I can see here now, so she is present, Karla Šlechtová, on account of a foreign trip. In addition, further apologies came, and Mr Farský apologizes between 15.40 and 16.30 due to the hearing, Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes for today's meeting from 15.30 for work reasons, and Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologises for today's day for working reasons. There. We've dealt with apologies. And now we will proceed to the agenda of the 11th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. At this point, we have dealt with the needs of the meeting and I'm registering four applications with priority rights. Mr. Jaroslav Faltýnek, the chair of the ANO Group of Parliament, came forward first. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-27-ps2017-011-01-000-000.u2	Hello, Mr President, fellow Members. Allow me to propose in accordance with § 56 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, in order for the House to decide that the 11th meeting is not public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-27-ps2017-011-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. I have already been informed that this proposal will take place. I'll read you some general information on this, which we should repeat here. In the event of a proposal for a non-public meeting or part thereof, a distinction must be made between a simple non-public meeting and a non-public meeting to discuss classified information. In the case of non-public negotiations, a shorthanded report shall be drawn up only if the House so decides pursuant to Section 68 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 5 of the Rules of Procedure. Information on the outcome of the vote shall not be published in electronic form in the case of non-public negotiations - § 76 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The grounds for non-public meetings of the House shall be served on Members and written proposals shall be submitted in paper form only - Section 120e of the Rules of Procedure. In the case of negotiations on classified information, the procedure shall be followed in accordance with Act No. 412/2005 Coll., on the protection of classified information and on security competence. Where a speaker, a member of the Government or a Member wishes to talk about classified information, it is necessary to notify it in advance, including the level of confidentiality of the information. The President shall subsequently adjourn the meeting at the necessary time for a meeting with the Security Service of the Chamber of Deputies. I believe that only a motion was filed for a non-public meeting without secrecy. Vice-President, I have four more priority rights here. I would... Counterproposal. In that case... of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-27-ps2017-011-01-000-000.u4	I would have a counter-proposal, and that is to make it public only the part of the meeting where we're going to discuss the non-public facts. That means the point of the show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-27-ps2017-011-01-000-000.u5	I understand the proposal. We don't have a debate at this point. We don't have an open point. Only priority rights are possible. The Vice-President proposes that these priority rights be exercised publicly. And then, after the start of the point... Then we would have to interrupt and continue in a private regime. So at this point, we have two procedural proposals to vote on. I think since we're talking about... Well, we're not talking about the show yet. But we will vote in the order in which the proposals were made. It's a counterproposal. We will be voting as the first counter-proposal of Mr Pikal. I'm gonna ask, just in case, does everyone know what we're voting on? We are voting that the meeting will not be public since the opening of the point. There. Yes. I'm going to sign everyone off, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. Another suggestion, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-27-ps2017-011-01-000-000.u6	I don't have an ambition to have my own proposal, I'm just looking for a postcard from Vice-President Pikal, and I want to make it clear that his proposal was that the meeting would not be public from the moment the program was approved. Yes? That's how we all understand it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-27-ps2017-011-01-000-000.u7	Those moments are coming together. I will specify - as soon as the agenda has been approved, the meeting will be held in a non-public manner in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That is the proposal made by Vice-President Pikal. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered is 150, for 54, versus 65. This proposal was rejected. We will now vote in a procedural motion by President Faltýnek to hold a non-public meeting from the time of the adoption of this regime, i.e. immediately after the vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 3, registered 150, for 97, versus 30. This proposal was adopted. We at the moment - I would ask for one more thing before I interrupt, so that we can technically prepare this room for non-public discussion, so that we can vote, because that is the rules of procedure, the presence of one member of the organisational department and one employee of the IT department, so that it is possible to operate the equipment and possibly to have some organizational support. [[Mr Kalousek still wants to speak.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-27-ps2017-011-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, of course, we who have remained in the minority respect that the meeting will be closed will not be public from now on. This means that you wish the public not only didn't know the course of the meeting, but also didn't know the reasons why it was called so that it wouldn't even know from those who initiated it. I would like to apologize to the public for the minority that wished the public would hear, and I promise that we will find ways to tell the public why we think this meeting was necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-27-ps2017-011-01-000-000.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I therefore suggest that we vote on the resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the participation of one member of the organisational department and one member of the IT department.' I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 4, registered is 150 Members, for 144, against no one. The motion was accepted. I therefore declare a 15-minute break to ensure the conduct of non-public negotiations, i.e. the closure of the gallery for guests and journalists, the interruption of television transmissions, etc.
