ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to start the 17th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I am opening it, and I welcome you all here. I'll ask you to take your seats. Madame Oborná has a replacement card number 14. Let me state that the Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies has set up a draft agenda for the 17th meeting on Wednesday, 27 June, so that the government pursuant to Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 Constitution of the Czech Republic and § 82 para. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies could have asked for a vote of confidence. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on the same day. Please log in with your ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who requested to issue a replacement card. First, let's proceed... My colleague Bartoš has a replacement card number 13. We will proceed to identify the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Jana Černochová and Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Does anyone else have a proposal for a 17th meeting verifier? It's not like that. So we can vote. In voting number 1, we will approve the verifiers of this meeting Jana Černochová and Kateřina Valachová. I've started voting number one, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 1 of the 172 Members present for 165, against no one. I am therefore of the opinion that we have designated Ms Jana Černochová and Mrs Kateřina Valachová as the verifiers of the 17th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that, before the opening of the meeting, the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting on the 17th session: Mr Milan Chovanec for personal reasons, Mr Roman Sklenák within 12 hours for health reasons. No one apologizes from the members of the government. Let me welcome the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek, who was appointed a member of the government yesterday. [[Let's hear it for the whole room.]] And we will now proceed to the agenda of the 17th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. I ask you, Madam Members, if you wish to comment on the proposal for a programme. I don't have an application. I therefore note that the programme has been established in accordance with the decision of the Organising Committee, stating that it also contains the question of written and oral interventions, if the meeting lasts another day, and under the Rules of Procedure Act, it is on Thursday the day on which oral and written interpelations are discussed. If no one reports, we will vote on the scheduled agenda for the meeting, in vote number 2. That's what I started, and I'm asking who's on the agenda. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 2 of the 185 present for 178, against no one. The agenda has been approved.
