ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u1	126. Members of Lukáš Bartoň, Martin Kolovratník, Ivana Nevludová, Jan Zahradník and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 114/1995 Coll., on Inland Navigation, as amended /German press 157/ - third reading Instead of the rapporteur's table, I would like Mr Lukáš Bartoň and Mr Vojtěch Munzar, rapporteur for the Committee on Economic Affairs, to take the position of the rapporteur. [[Big noise in the hall.]] The amendments are set out in the Parliamentary Press 157/3, which was delivered on 14 November 2018. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House Press 157/4. I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. It's not like that. In that case, I am opening a debate to which Mr Milan Feranec is reporting. And before I give him my word, I will ask that any discussions, very excited about the last bill, be transferred to the front so that my colleague Feranec can present his position on third reading in a dignified atmosphere. Then report to the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Just a moment, Mr. Congressman... [[The O.R.'s down.]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I'm just a little bit short on this law. As we know, there has been a great discussion during the first reading. According to the petitioners, this proposal is about getting those watermen to have that beer when they get on that boat. And we all went on water, we all had beer, didn't we? But I think the law is about something else. It's about breaking through the zero tolerance of alcohol consumption in traffic. If we break it. It's really about that. And I don't think we should really do this, because that's the first step. Next will be cyclists, then will come drivers of cars etc. So I think it's really about breaking zero tolerance. The design is also technically wrong, because he says - a small craft without machinery. We come from the fact that a small vessel is going slow, but so is windsurfing. I windsurfing is a non-engineered vessel. That doesn't go slow at all. Not at all. So for me, I'm just going to focus on the three amendments. He's talking about he's not a misdemeanor if the water guy breathes into one promile. That's the nature of the proposal. And all I'm saying is that it's a zero-tolerance breach. I'm not even close to abstinence, but I will always be in favour of maintaining zero tolerance. The proposal under letter C, which releases any boundary, is even worse. He says there will be an impeccable tolerance for alcohol. Anyone who at least staggers into that vessel crawls in some way to have six, seven, that's deadly, doesn't commit a misdemeanor. So the C is even worse. And the proposal under letter B, which suggests releasing a certain section of the stream of Berounka from the list of significant watercourses, was undoubtedly a godly intention that there would be no god of a jeez or something like that, waterworks. But what it really means is that the state cannot contribute to the construction of any work, water, energy, flood, because the SFDI Act does not allow the financing of measures from State resources unless it is a significant watercourse. We also talked about this at the Members' Club, and I think we support that view there, the opinion of the Ministry of Transport that we really should not break zero tolerance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u3	Thank you, Mr Milan Feranc. Before I give the floor to the Minister of Transport, I therefore have two factual points - Mrs Langšádlová and Mr Bartoň. Mrs Langšádlová, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll take two notes. The first point is alcohol. I'd like to say that we support tolerance up to one perm, but what scares me is the discussion on the Economic Committee, where everyone, including the representatives of the Ministry of Transport, said, "Oh, yeah, we always go for the water, so we always have the beer, 'cause they're all having it. But still, we're against tolerance. - And that's a completely wrong approach. In short, if we have rules, we're supposed to follow them. And if we can't even achieve that they're being controlled, or we know that a large part of the public simply won't follow them, then it's better to reduce or abolish those rules. In short, in front of the legislators to say: we know that it has never been followed and it will not be observed, and at the same time insist that it should be, it is simply completely wrong. That's what you get with kids when you set some rules for them and you say in advance, but you don't have to follow them. So wrong. Wrong approach on principle. And about the Berounka. I have lived in the valley of Berounky since I was born. I really appreciate living in this place. And it's unimaginable to me through the reservations that my previous speaker here said this river should be navigated once. I think that not only my opinion, but the mayors in Podobouní, including that part of Prague, it is unacceptable for the river to be navigated once, although I understand the arguments of the economics that have been made by my previous speaker. I think it is the right amendment by Mrs Krutáková. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u5	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Bartoň, with a factual remark, and then the Minister of Transport, with priority rights. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u6	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Mr Feranc. Breaking alcohol in traffic. Well, then you have to say what we mean by transport. Personally, I can say that I don't consider watercoaches transport. We can say that, for example, no road users should operate in transport. That's not true either. The pedestrian is involved in road traffic. So it's the breach, depending on what you consider transport. And the watermen will certainly not be the transport in the true sense of the word. He's probably gonna say it here, Mr. Took. Windsurfing. Yes, this vessel would also fall there, but once again I have to say for a few times, it is the release of an offence in the law on inland navigation. Other laws still apply. If you use alcohol and act as a threat to anyone else's activities, it's against the law. It's not just a paragraph about a misdemeanor. This launch, which is designed, is that if I'm acting like I'm not threatening anyone, I don't automatically get a fine, even if I'm being responsible. As for A, C, C is only a formal amendment if A did not pass. And it is economical, we support the compromise proposal of one pardon for the one who runs the vessel. We agree. I think there's more to it than that, and C is only in case A doesn't pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u7	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I'll ask the Minister to be patient. Mr Milan Feranc's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u8	Thank you. Of course, I realize that legal measures continue to apply - I must not endanger anyone, etc. But we're sending a signal, you can drink to one perm. The public signal is, you can have two or three beers, depending on how many permile one is. And if anything happens, you're out of luck. That's the signal. That's the precaution. The precautionary measure's working there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u9	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Václav Klaus, Mr František Vácha and then Minister of Transport Dan Ťok, Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch, with priority rights, and third with priority rights as rapporteur. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u10	I'd respond to that loser's defense attorney. I think a man is to be punished for what he does, not for what he could theoretically do, because otherwise we can ban everything. When it comes to security, maybe two days ago, traffic in the entire territory of the Republic should be banned when it was the iceberg, because it's a thousand times more dangerous when accidents can occur, and so on. So security isn't everything. And there are also such values that you're a young man and you're going out for water, so you'll have a beer. What do you think you're doing on that stupid rubber boat?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr František Vácha's point of view. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u12	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to point out that this is the law on inland navigation and not on transport. You can imagine two cases. We have a raft with 12 people riding it and paddling it and everyone having beer. If someone checks them out, they'll get a ticket. Each of them gets a ticket for paddling. If you go to the Old Town Square, where the so-called beer bike runs, where you have 12 drunk tourists, no fine, and that's a traffic participant, the one who steps there, analogically with what goes in that raft and paddles, he gets no fine. Does the driver get a ticket and he's not drunk? I don't think he will either. And now we're getting to the comparison: right, beer bike, and some raft or rubber boat on the water, where a couple of those watermen will just have a beer. I think that this proposal, this amendment, somehow justifies those who ride the water, paddle and have a beer, and are not the ones who threaten traffic in the Old Town Square. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u13	Thank you. With a factual remark, Vice-President of the House of Pikal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u14	I don't want to stretch the traffic. I would just like to say that one of the reasons for which I joined politics was that things that are normal are not legal. I think this is one of those cases. Just like a marijuana in a pub or night patrols in camps aren't legal, but they're normal. Let us please reconcile reality with legality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u15	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Procházková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u16	Just a comment on my previous speakers. As a doctor, I have to say that one promile is quite considerable drunkenness. If I had one pardon, I understand, of course, that there are some Members who work with one pardon, not without one, but I can imagine myself on a boat with one pardon, I would really drown. I'm not used to drinking alcohol, and one thing for me is totally unacceptable. First of all. And secondly, since we're already calling each other opposites here. Now we've banned hunters from drinking, they're doing checks, they're getting tickets. Then why didn't we leave them one too? That's a good one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u17	Thank you. Fellows Bartoň and Holomčík will respond to a point of fact. Mr Bartoň, with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u18	Thank you. I'll respond to Mrs. Procházková. Since the first reading, this compromise proposal has taken place on one ground. In the original proposal, it was completely without restrictions. We've come to one perm that it's a line between drunkenness and drunkenness. [[The noise in the hall.]] That's one pardon, if you take it, so we took the road transport in Europe in general. I can say that a lot of Western countries have half of the promile, Britain, Ireland has even 0.8 of the promile. At 0.8 perm you can sit behind the wheel of a motor vehicle in Britain and Ireland and burn it slowly 130 on the highway. That is why we have set a little bit more permile than the 0.8 that are already valid in some countries in Europe. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u19	Thank you. Mr Holomčík, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to respond to the example that was made here with hunters. I've spent a significant part of my life going on water, and I don't remember any time we'd ever tamper with a firearm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u21	Thank you. The factual remarks of Mr Blažek, Mr Bláha, Mr Válek in this order will now follow. Mr Blažek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would have responded to Mrs Procházková. I would have forgiven myself for all this tabloid talk that there are Members here who have one pardon. And I'm gonna say it hard. Only an asshole reduces the reputation of the body in which he sits. There's no other way to react to that. [[Laughter explosions in the left side of the hall.]] I'm gonna ask that we really keep this talk because they're tabloid, they're out of line, and I don't know who they're gonna talk to, but certainly not a normal person. And secondly, I'd like to say that we also need to think about the authorities that are in charge of security. Because if we keep adding more and more, in my opinion secondary, homework, so instead of really dealing with what's needed, that means not killing people on the streets, not murdering, stealing, stealing, sending them to breathe to the watermen. That's completely absurd.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u23	Thank you. Mr Bláha with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the two things that have been said here. The first was when a fellow Member, through the President, spoke about the fact that when something is not working, we should either reduce it or cancel it. So we're gonna allow that to happen in public, for example, because a bunch of people are peeing in public, or maybe we're gonna cancel taxes, not like that. Although I'm just in favour of getting things straightened out in some way, and really, when I'm going out on the water so I can have that beer. As far as the comparison is concerned, that's the other case. I'm glad we're leaning back on comparing. I'll remind you, when we talk about holidays here, that means working on a holiday where, in fact, the party that enforces a liquor license here, even though I say I'm not against it, it says, well, let's not compare, we can't compare. So on the one hand, we're good with comparisons, and on the other hand, we're not good with comparisons. Always think about what you say when you argue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u25	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I have two notes. The first one. If we're seriously talking about the prolile of alcohol, then we have to talk about how different we are in the alcohol level, when who is who, and we have to talk about how much of us weigh and how fast the alcohol burns. [[unintelligible]] I think that maybe it's for the health committee, and it's probably beyond the possibility of a completely detailed debate in plenary. And I think we're talking about when or not a person is dangerous around here if he has some amount of alcohol. Let's either say that it's always dangerous when it has some amount of alcohol in its blood, and then we ban it completely, or let's define situations where it's dangerous around it, and I don't think that in the case of watermen, there's a situation where a small amount of alcohol is dangerous. And I'm gonna end up with what some people are saying, whether I say it or not, my words are gonna come to mind, I think it's gonna come to common sense here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u27	Thank you. Now they will follow, they won't, there is still one point in fact. Mr Kobza is reporting with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as a former active waterman, I am watching this debate quite appalled because, as I have once heard the definition of civilization, it is that we are gradually forbidden everything we enjoy, so I fear that the obsession with forbidding and editing, simply social engineering, is beginning to reach such limits that you should also really listen to what your own watermen say. The first impression I get is that they're presented here as a bunch of incompetent alcoholics, which is definitely not true. And if they have a beer at the bus stop for lunch so they can be bullied for it, I find it totally unacceptable. And I think that less bans mean more freedom here, because it is not possible to simply sneak the state and the nation into other bans and other bans, however much this journey to hell is paved with good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u29	Thank you. The speeches of those who have priority rights will now follow, Minister Ťok, Minister Vojtěch and Mr Munzar. Minister Tok has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u30	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members, fellow Members, the Ministry of Transport continues to take an unchangeable view that it is impossible to agree with any possibility of breaking the zero tolerance of alcohol and other addictive substances in any field of transport. Not only the Ministry of Transport but also the State Fair Administration, the Police of the Czech Republic, the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic and many other state and non-state organizations perceive the consumption of alcohol by the leaders of any vessels for obvious reasons as very dangerous acts and maintain the existing legislation as correct and conceptual. The risks associated with the operation of water tourism and other leisure activities on water routes under the influence are clearly also known by representatives of a number of interest organizations that support the project Water or alcohol, such as the Association of Guides of the Czech Republic, the Czech Canoeist Union or the Junák Association, the Czech Scout, and cannot be considered as representing the majority opinion of the group concerned. In the case of general demand, which can be clearly identified only in the context of a wider and detailed expert discussion, it would appear appropriate to give priority to a system solution consisting in exempting selected leisure activities from the legislation under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Transport, by establishing a new general regulation at the level of the Public Health Act, in other words, so that sports activities are simply not under the curate or in inland waterway legislation. Nor does the Ministry of Transport agree with the substantively unrelated amendment under point B, consisting of the release of the river stream Berounka from river kilometre 37 to the port of Radotín from the list of waterways of transport importance and usable. It should be borne in mind that the classification of the section Berounky in question between waterways of transport importance, usable, does not in itself constitute a legal obligation to carry out the construction of navigational stages here, and therefore does not constitute an automatic threat to the objects of protection that are present on the water path concerned. In the case of future construction of navigational stages, if it even comes to them, it will go within the meaning of Law No. 100/2000 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment of Certain Related Acts, Act on Impact Assessment, as amended, always on an intention subject to either an environmental impact assessment or an intention subject to investigation procedure. The environmental interests were therefore, are and will continue to be protected regardless of whether or not the water path in question is covered by Annex 2 of the Inland Water Navigation Act. The importance of the existing inclusion of the watercourse Berounka in Annex 2 thus essentially consists of the possibility of financing the possible future use of the river through the state investor Directorate of Waterways from the resources of the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u31	Thank you, Minister. The President Stanjura and Mr Bartoň will respond to his speech in a factual manner. Mr. Chairman Stanjura has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u32	Thank you. I would ask the Minister to translate the speech into Czech. I don't know which Humphrey or who else wrote it to you. These are really incredible verbal structures about how greater public demand. [[unintelligible]] I didn't really understand that. But that's not why I applied. For those zero fighters, I think you know that, but now I'm gonna talk about licensed alcohol for drivers that we're not dealing with today, but for drivers in Europe... Where's zero? In our country, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and Russia. That's where it's particularly preventive, that's where they solved the alcohol problem. Everywhere else west of us: Belgium 0.5; Bulgaria 0.5 - so not only west; Denmark 0,5 - even north; Estonia 0,2; Finland 0,5; France 0,5; Croatia 0,5; Ireland 0,5; Italy 0,5; Cyprus 0,5; Liechtenstein 0,5; Latvia 0,5; Luxembourg 0,5; Malta and Great Britain 0,8; Germany 0,5; the Netherlands 0,5; Poland 0,2; Portugal 0.5 - I have one more minute to make it - Greece 0.5; Scotland 0,5; Spain 0,5; Sweden 0,2 and that's it. So, nice colleagues in the ANO movement, who are supposedly liberals, Mr Vondráček really amused me, as he says, we in the YES are liberals, so here it shows. Everyone west, north, and some even south of us are doing it wrong. And we see this pattern in Russia, Slovakia, us and Hungary. And tonight, all we're talking about is waterboats. And here's the warning. So maybe when the next Council of Ministers, Minister, is here, why don't you act on the issue of danger abroad, why don't you let those drunkards have a limit, and not with us, and try to convince them and harmonise them within the European Union that there will be zero everywhere. You will see what your colleagues from the west, from the north, from the south and from the east - we have seen, for example, some countries east of us - what they will say to you. So let's not fool around with the wrong arguments. And for Mrs. Procházková, I know, I just have to say it. [[Time warning]] You really don't have to drink when the law passes. You don't have to have one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u33	I have to measure everyone the same way, so I can't let you talk anymore. Mr Bartoň and his factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u34	Thank you. I'd like to respond to Minister Took. Most of the opinion he gave us here, represented by the Association of Watermen, so I would venture to say it's not a majority opinion. There are dozens of people on the boat. And just last season in the Czech Republic, 600,000 people came out on the water. 600,000 watermen. These are covered by this law. Cut sports activities from transport, then it may not, as you say, be breaking zero tolerance in transport. Yes, it sounds very good. We're willing to work with you on this. However, I see this promise that it will come in many years, or I suggest that we approve this amendment now. If you design it by the season and you can push for a better adjustment, let's talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u35	Thank you. With the factual remark of Mrs Procházková, then Minister Ťok, Mr Bláha, Mr Feranec, with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u36	To my previous speakers who make me look like an idiot, I'd like to point out that I said that I think one pardon is a risk, that it's already drunk. And I have the experience of an ambulance with those drunken watermen that we dragged from under those lakes, where they boldly embarked on something I don't think they should have done. And the only thing that was in their favor of the alcohol was that the brain was protected by the alcohol, and they were unconscious because of the alcohol, even for a shorter period of time. That's one thing. And the other thing. I did not notice, Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, that you would say that one of those states in the West has one permile. I really didn't notice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u37	Minister Tok with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I originally didn't want to get too involved in this emotional and populist debate, but I have to respond to some things. It is nice to make a mockery of the speech, but when a person reads a list of individual states on the prolile of alcohol that is permitted in road transport, discussing whether or not watermen should have alcohol in their blood, it is irrelevant, but I simply will not judge that. I just want to say one thing. Just at the last formal meeting of the transport ministers, where security was discussed, so unisono and the states you appointed here sounded like it would be good if the alcohol behind the wheel had zero tolerance for them, and they would try to do so. So saying that my colleagues would chase me off somewhere, it's not true either. That's the experience of this Monday. And I just want to say one thing. There really is a problem if we break the border anywhere in the law that is the law on transport, about inland transport, and especially about larger vessels, so here we hear a lot of things from this counter: we've already broken it once, what happens if we break it the second time, the third time? It's actually normal. We've given some status here, some precedent, so we can repeat the precedent. I'd really warn you about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u39	Mr Bláha - factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond and, above all, I would like to thank Mr Stanjur, through the President, for what he has said here, because he said: let us learn from those who have democracy far longer, let us learn from the states that may be farther away in the creation of laws and regulations, but let us apply this in all sectors. That means I'm gonna warm up my soup, and when we're here to discuss business on the holiday, I'd really like you to approach the holiday work with this vehementality, and believe that most people are gonna applaud you, because normal people who work on the holiday and have to, they don't want to work on the holiday. So I will look forward to the fact that when we meet here at the change, at the abolition or shift of work on the holiday, we will argue that there is no work in Germany on the holiday, in Austria, in Hungary, in Poland, in Switzerland and in France. So I'm hoping that's how we're gonna deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u41	With a point of fact, President Stanjura, Mr Benda after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u42	I really don't like being translated from Czech into Czech and praised or criticized for something I didn't say. I didn't say "let's learn." I have said no such thing, Mr Blá, through the Vice-President. I deliberately gave a much more controversial permit for a certain level of alcohol, and that's for drivers. I'm sure we can agree that it's much more controversial than the watermen. And none of us is suggesting and suggesting that the drivers have 1.0, so that we're clear. That's for sure. I just want to say that it's much more controversial, it involves a much stronger traffic, a lot more people, a lot more drivers, but in those countries, alcohol and professional drivers are allowed, not just amateur drivers or those who are not professionals. And I think the debate is waiting for us. If Minister Ťok says that if we approve today that we will break through, the Senate has approved and sent us a Senate bill where the alcohol level is allowed for cyclists, for example, so we can't really avoid the debate. But we're ready to tie up the debate with the fact that if - and now I'm not talking about the waterboats, about the other ones - we're going to tighten up the punishments for those who cross it. But are we really gonna measure the alcohol levels of swimmers, walkers? Check the BESIP statistics on how many road accidents are caused by pedestrians and how many are under the influence of alcohol! Do we have a restraining order? Where does that lead? To absolute prohibition, to an unrealistic law that will be broken in real life today and daily. And I'll remind you - I wasn't on that economic committee, but I hear it from those opponents: I'm against it, I'm for zero. Well, I'll have that beer on the water, too. - What kind of attitude is that? If I'm a loser, I don't want that beer! That's a consistent procedure that has my respect, because I'm setting my own example. I want zero for everyone, so I have zero. I understand that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u43	Prime Minister, time! Thank you. Mr Benda - factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u44	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I was provoked by the Minister of Transport on a factual note, but he was able to disappear in between, so it is a bit irrelevant. But what he said here. All those experts who meet at European levels also recommend zero. That is why, fortunately, we still have the parliaments, which is why, fortunately, we still have the 200 people who are also to vote, and it is not just the preachers of good from the individual authorities who are telling us what to do, and it is up to us how we here consider what we consider to be a reasonable restriction on all of us citizens for the benefit of some officials who think that this will make the world easier and less complicated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u45	Thank you. And now with priority rights, Minister Vojtěch. After that, Mr Munzar will be given priority rights and then we will move on to those who are enrolled in the general debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on this. A lot of things have been said here, as it is abroad. It is important to remember that we are actually a bit of an exception in this regard. When we look at the latest statistics on alcohol consumption, then in our country, the Czech Republic is the second in the world in alcohol consumption. Only Litevec drink more. Even in Russia, there is less drinking today, because other states are simply doing something about it. In the last five years, we have moved to second place in the world's consumption of alcohol. That needs to be realized. So we're really special about this. And for me, as Minister of Health, I strongly disagree with this, because if we look at the one perm we're talking about, and when we say one beer - one perm says there are five large shots. I don't know how much beer it is, but it's just not one beer. This is indeed a rather pronounced state of drunkenness. It's called a middle drunken state. So it's not just that I'm gonna have one beer and I'm going out for water. That's really drunk, and I think it's symbolism. And as the Minister of Transport has spoken, we are not forbidding anything here. We are merely breaking through the zero, i.e. at one permile, which is and will undoubtedly be one of the highest tolerances in the world, virtually from what President Stanjur said through the President. if he described that in those other countries it is 0.2 to 0.5, I would say on average, and we will have one permile, five large shots, and that is a really significant increase. And I'm asking where it's going next. So we're really going to say that we've broken the line and that one perm is inadequate because they want to have more watermen, so we're going to have one and a half? Two pardons? How far do we go? And then we'll go to skiers, who are also used to skiing, sit on beer and a drink, and they're used to driving drunk, and then we see the endings, where they just often kill some skiers on the slope by bumping into them. And cases like this happen. So I really think this is very dangerous. We have a zero-for-a-million-dollar limit here, and now we want to break it. We do not want to forbid anyone, on the contrary, we want to loosen up the situation, and at a time when society is actually very tolerant of alcohol, when it increases in the time of alcohol consumption compared to the global trend, I think this is a very bad step, and I will fundamentally vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u47	With priority rights, Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, watering is mainly leisure activity, and as such we should approach it. It's perfectly normal for watermen to have a drink at the water camp tonight, have a drink, and have residual alcohol in them in the morning. It's perfectly normal that watermen can have a glass of beer on a hot day on the water. And we're talking about normality being a misdemeanor because that's what we're talking about today. We're talking about the extent of the offence we're setting. As the petitioners say, even if we accept this proposal, or the proposal from the Economic Committee, the police have a banishment from the other regulations to stop the vessel. It shall remain responsible for the safety of other persons on board, liability for damage, liability for damage to health or other damage. The Czech rule of law has enough other tools to address this. But man's responsibility will not arise and will not grow in proportion to the increasing number of regulations, bans and orders. On the contrary, the greater the limitation of free human will, the greater the inability to judge the adequacy of one's actions. The more we indulge our rule of law with various prohibitions and orders, the less respect our citizens will be for the law and for the law. And that is essential, and that is something that we should all be aware of in this great House. So it applies to alcohol as well as to laws - everything with moderation. And I would like, as a Member of the Central Bohemia Region, to comment on Mrs Krutáková's amendment and Mr Pávek's proposal to remove the river Berounka from the list of important transport waterways. Anyone who knows this river knows that it is a real pearl of the Central Bohemia Region and that proposals for its navigation are absolutely unrealistic. Even less real than the realization of the Danube-Odra-Labe channel. However, since the previous regime, it has been included in these transport-important waterways, especially because of the idea of former engineers under the previous regime that products from Škoda Plzeň to Prague could be washed up after Berounka. It's just given historically. I understand Mr Feranc's speech through Mr President, but we can talk about whether the flow can be financed or the construction can be financed either through the Directorate of Transport Waterways or through the Vltava basin in this case. It is important to mention that the municipalities on Berounce type Černošice, Řevnice, Všenory, Karlík, Lety, Tetin, Serbia, Karlštejn, Zadělná Nebaň, Vlášná Nebaň, they all refuse to navigate the Berounka. And the fact that it's listed, it just makes the Directorate of Transport Waterways have to deal with it. They have to spend taxpayers' money on different generators, concepts, studies, how they could be realized. So this proposal by fellow Members, respectively. Mrs Krutáková and Mr Pávek, I support this because I also see the saving of significant public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u49	Thank you. Mr Klaus and Mr Kobza's factual remarks will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u50	I would have responded briefly to Minister Adam. I ask you, through Mr President, to let these people live and decide on their own lives. You're always doing good here, you're on the mountain, cigarettes, alcohol, fatty foods, I've already noticed that you want to forbid us. Soon you'll want to ban sex in those waterfront camps, because it's also dangerous, isn't it? [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] Hygiene conditions, now they're drunk, they don't know each other. You can go on like this all the time. You don't want to live these people, let them decide for themselves. And if they commit something, let them pay for it. But let the normal life run, for God's sake. Plus, the alcohol isn't bad in itself. Bad are people who don't know how to use it. Ježíš Kristus has already turned water into wine, not milk, hasn't he? [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] There's a reason for that, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u51	Mr Kobza, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, would like to follow up on the Minister of Health through you. Thank you for his mention of skiers, because I realized that besides alcohol we have a second very dangerous substance, which we should also ban, and that is adrenaline. And of course, I, however, when I commute to Prague or come home tonight, meet a number of motorcyclists in the summer, meet a number of people who, under the influence of adrenaline, are acting like total lunatics, so I think it might be good to develop some methodology to ban the adrenaline, not just alcohol. If we forbid everything, then let's ban everything, because forbidding alcohol is a halfway solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u53	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mrs Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I just have a question this time, because everything I wanted to say and not to say has been said by far systematically about the symbolism of our decision by the Minister of Health. But my question points to Mr Klaus. What's his normal life? Probably my normal life is a little different from his normal perception or his perception of normal life. And I think that this is particularly surprising for someone like Mr Klaus through you, Mr Vice-President, who is also formally and informally a role model for young people, which he has and certainly also raises. So I'm kind of wondering what he meant by normal life in this context. So you've described it with such an appeal - let people live their normal lives. I don't know what you mean. And if they do, as I understand it, the law enforcement authorities. A little simplistic, black and white vision of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u55	Mr Klaus will respond with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u56	There. I don't know why I should be a role model for young people. How did you figure that out? Ask my four children whether they like me or not. That's it. And the normal life is that I have no idea what kind of life you live, Madame. I don't care. I'm very happy for you. I just don't want anyone to decide what kind of life I have to live. If I'm gonna eat fat food when I'm hungry for it, how I just live. That's all. Let people live! Let people live their lives. Everyone's different. Don't try to force everything on them just because you think it's good. That's what I think of as a normal life.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u57	Thank you. Mr Adamec will now speak in the general debate. Mr. Kupka will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u58	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, so let me also say a few words on the issue. I didn't know it would pick up such passions. But I guess it's okay. But I have to say, the nature of this problem is somewhere else, other than what we're dealing with today, what we've got in front of us on the table. You know, when the press called me sometime in the summer on vacation, what I'm saying about the amendment to the Inland Navigation Act, I said, "Nothing." Well, I guess it's gonna be a little different to some other standard. And they said, "No, no, it's about the waterboats." I say, "Oh, my God, what are the watermen doing in inland navigation?" And that's the problem. I think that's an exact demonstration that we don't have human activity at all costs by binding laws. Unfortunately, this tendency is not only in our state, but in Europe, we are simply making up the law for every human activity. Well, then we're very surprised, aren't we? I understand the attitude of the Minister of Transport here, and maybe a little bit of the Minister of Health, because of course they're defending it from that point of view, it's really an inland navigation law. Well, the problem is, as watermen, I don't see them as part of an inland voyage. I see it, as it was said here, as human activity, interest activity. And who says here that the watermen are terrible and that he was on that water and that somewhere they were dragged from under the bridge and from under the lake, well that happens on the water, but everyone there is responsible for themselves and for their friends, with whom he sits on the boat. But just say that there's no beer on the water or that something sharper doesn't fall here and there, so when it's cold, you all know what it looks like. And who says it isn't, is a hypocrite in my opinion, or has never been on that water. And I see the problem here that it really is a matter that doesn't just belong in the system of our laws. [[12.40 hours]] The minister was right here to say that he'd like it to show up somewhere else. But I'm afraid it's gonna be in some law somewhere else. And I don't think it should be. We have a lot of laws that set standards for how to behave in our lives, and I think we have enough. I'd even say there's an excess. And an abundance of laws, you know what an excess of laws always means? This initiative? That we have an inconspicuous system of laws, that people don't know how to navigate, and if they can't navigate when it's too much, then they simply break it, and then no one notices it, because there's no force or will to enforce it. I remember when I was still in the Senate, that's when the President came, that was President Klaus, the elder of course, and he said to the Senate plenary that we should try to reduce the number of laws that we should clear our system. And you know who applauded him the most? The biggest swellers. Those who brought their bills to everything, to all and at all times. Let's try to think about how to deal with our legislation in the future. When I hear that there's a legislative crisis, I'm always covered in heat and sweat, because I say we're gonna screw it up with our people, because I say it all the time from time to time: when there's a parliament, and the Brit have it as an old proverb, you can't be sure of either property or life. And that's still true. Maybe to a slightly altered degree, and how many times do I think that people should rather be happy when the House does not sit down a few times because they are safe from us. Take it with exaggeration, or take it as it is, but if there are matadors here who know what has passed through this O.R., they have to admit I'm right. Saying you don't want that beer on the water, I don't understand why the pubs are by the water. I really don't get it. For passengers, okay, but the passenger can degenerate the ship, too, so the Deputy Prime Minister here tells me. And let's say it the way it is. Let's not be hypocrites. By the way, this place turned out to be zero tolerance. I understand the Minister's position. It's very simple to manage. If the cops stop you, they let you breathe, it's done. You'll be at least a year without a license. You're gonna repeat your driving school. You're going to go to the DMV for a psych test. By the way, that's where you're going, even if your driver's license isn't taken away, and your sentence is longer than six months, because psychologists need to make money. But if it were different, of course, and you know that different residual alcohols, doctors know it better than I do, but the organism creates alcohol in itself, it's a physiological limit. And God forbid, when your body decides to let more lives into it, and it's about to measure you, you'll have it with impunity. Well, you won't. At the very least, you're gonna go through this misdemeanor trial, the administrative procedure, and you're gonna enjoy it. I really do. And people will look at you as someone who breaks the law and acts like he shouldn't behave. These are all legitimate discussions. I believe that this will also happen, because I am certainly not in favour of drivers, swimmers, skiers having to drink. I understand that if someone has one, it's useless. I know people who have one, and you can't tell it in them. That's it. It's their life. If they want to spoil it with too much alcohol, let them spoil it. Or to say that we are a different nation than the nations in Europe, I think that is also a serious statement. I go to Europe with different nations. Well, I don't think tonight's any different than ours. It's pretty similar, if not the same. Saying we're more insubordinate than other nations, well, it's about the enforcement of law after that. You cross, you get caught, you get convicted in a month, you get punished, and hello. You do something here and it goes on for months, years, decades. Maybe it's a discussion in another plenary right now, what I'm saying here, but it's reality. Please, let us not attempt to label every human activity into legal norms. I can't. I can't, virtually. If we do that, the company won't be happy, it'll be a society where laws are broken, because too much racketing leads to it, no one will stop and we'll become great hypocrites. And in conclusion, let me make one more observation that I got here in this plenary when we were talking about the increased speed, the possible increased speed on the highways, the so-called 150. By the way, I was in Poland, Austria, Germany, the quality of motorways almost the same, driving at a higher speed, nothing happens. And do you know what the argument of several of my fellow Members was? Well, we're not gonna burn our fingers with it. Anyway, the cops on that highway tolerate the 150th. Do you want a system like this or don't you? I don't want it. So let's do everything we can to make it so that when the laws are in place, we follow them and we take criminal responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u59	Thank you. It will be followed by factual remarks. Mr Bláha, Mr Munzar, Mr Ťok. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a colleague through the President, and I would like to commend him for what he has said, because I think that we are breaking the laws from top to bottom. We're about to have a law if we have a bathroom because it's already determined how much water to flush, so how much more toilet paper we're gonna use. I'm all for not making laws on everything, but I'd say "but." I think it's important that the laws we have today, and a bunch of them are useless, we all admit that when we meet, so that we can demand, control and obey them. I think that this should be the main activity of Members for us to encourage officials to demand, control and respect, or control compliance. But most importantly, if we go for the consequences, even the officials aren't following today. You have individual authorities' budgets on your desks and notice how individual officials behave. How they behave, even if we have a law, how they should proceed within what budget they are going to do, how they approach it, how individual items go around, how they move them. This way we'd have to go from one to the other, and we're getting to the point that we're useless here because we can't control, demand, etc. And I'd just get my colleagues off the DMV when we're talking about alcohol, so there's one thing that's very important. Our drivers and companies employing drivers are in huge danger. If the driver has residual alcohol on the road, the company is responsible. And the fact that if a driver does, like, 100 million worth of damage, it's paid by the company that employs him. The insurance company doesn't give a penny and requires it, and requires it to be executed immediately. And that's what we should be dealing with, not if the water guy has one beer. [[Your time is up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u61	Mr Munzar factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u62	Thank you. I'd like to respond to my colleague. Procházková through Mr President, who here, during the performance of my colleague Ivan Adamec, shouted to him from the scene that the pubs were for crew members. Well, it's not like that today. Even crew members today, if they have alcohol in them, they're committing an offence. Therefore, the Economic Committee proposed a resolution, respectively. a proposal in the sense that crew members are removed from this offence, and an offence, i.e. fine, i.e. punishment, will be applied to the leaders of small vessels from one permile. I felt it was necessary to clarify the situation here so that we would really know what the vote would be on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u63	Thank you. Minister Tok with a point of fact. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard here, and I would like to respond to Mr Adamec's speech by the watermen in the inland navigation law. I'd take his word for it and make a procedural motion. Let us remove the watermen from this law. I would suggest that we return the law to second reading, where in the Economic Committee this topic can be discussed. That will satisfy both groups. The first group that doesn't want to break zero tolerance can't break it, and the second group that wants to make sure the watermen aren't controlled, so the inland navigation law won't fall on them. That would be my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u65	Thank you. I have noted your proposal to repeat the second reading of this bill. I cannot put this to a vote immediately, but I will put it to a vote at the end of the debate. [[Objection by Members of Faltynek and War from the point of view.]] It is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this procedure. I ask that Mr Kupka speak now in the debate, followed by Mr Kolovratník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u66	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, it is said that the worst thing that can happen to a politician is that it will become ridiculous. I think that's exactly the case with the state. The worst thing that can happen for him and for his authority is that he becomes ridiculous. That with his footsteps, he'll take so far away from reality, from normal life, it'll make you laugh. I believe we're dealing with a case like this here. Because I am a waterman and what we would possibly approve could quite well mean that such grotesque scenes will occur on the shores of the Czech rivers. Just imagine the situation that a police patrol is standing by the lake, and the watermen are coming to the lake. They know what's going on, there's going to be traffic. In the upcoming parliamentary term, we are likely to pass a new law here that will address how to regulate such congestions on water flows. Or, and that may be an even more interesting idea, those patrols will take place right on the boats, in the washboards and in the boats. It's also an unimaginable matter for a normal person. I'm fascinated by how many people are determined to make the world safer and safer at all costs when it's the safest place in the world. I would like to point out that the effort to make it perfectly safe is inherently out of place in everyday life. It's just that life can never be perfectly safe. Nor can I imagine that we would gradually start dulling all the edges a child may encounter in such a fight. It's a total utopian effort. The idea that there will be no edge in the world in both factual and translated terms is desperate. I wouldn't want to be in that world. So, please also, let us not let ourselves get drunk with the idea of a perfectly safe life that we are supposed to provide through the laws. My second point is to support Jana Krutáková's amendment, which releases the lower flow of Berounka from the list of transport significant waterways. I would like to rely on the opinion of a number of municipalities and towns on the lower stream, which clearly said that their idea of how their immediate territory would evolve, how the whole valley would be adapted to cities and municipalities, is simply excluded with the idea of a water road that would be used industrially. And if we are to listen to someone, they are certainly self-government in this regard, which will undoubtedly put a lot more resources into the adjustments to the valley in the coming years and they will talk much more really into it, talking about how the valley itself will develop. And here we hear from all the representatives, even the capital city of Prague, the city parts in that sense signed a memorandum that talks about how the territory of the confluence of Vltava and Berounka should be developed, the whole wider territory. And this really contradicts the idea of a waterway and what could or should be created in accordance with the idea of the Ministry of Transport. And then there's one more thing. Of course, the watercourse is also one of the most beautiful natural scenery. We established the tradition of cleaning the Berounka years ago precisely to make the bed and experience of people coming into contact with Berounka more beautiful. The idea that all of a sudden it's going to stand by the activity that, unfortunately, is going in the exact opposite direction in this case, is infuriating me. And I call on anyone who has ever been to Berounca or sailed it, so he knows it well, or visited places around Berounka herself to stand up for the amendment, because in this case it is really the voice of common sense and at the same time the voice of anyone who likes Berounka and nature around Berounka at least a little bit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u67	Thank you. Mr Feranec will respond to a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u68	Thank you. Response to the previous speaker. He asked what happens when the cops start checking on someone. Well, nothing happens, it's the state that's today. Was this bill a result of any need? I don't know. And whose need? What's going on today that there are lines? You say what happens. Nothing's gonna happen. That's the first thing. Second thing, the Beroun. It's okay, arguments. I just hope that the representatives of the government know that the adoption of this law means the impossibility of funding from the SFDI. If they're okay with it, it's okay. It's a good thing it said what it was really gonna bring. If they're okay with it, it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u69	Thank you. Mr Klaus will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u70	I would have responded to Mr Feranc that nothing was going on. But that's not true. The check is in progress. She's known for cycling. There is a system of wine trails, which is based on the principle that Daddy and his family are on the wine trail, having a wine deck, just a family trip, and the police are around the corner, getting a fine of CZK 3,000, and the result is that the next time the family doesn't go on the trip, and the wine pub operator goes bankrupt. So, of course, these things happen, and they're definitely going to happen with the water guys. And when someone takes it actively, the Home Secretary will take over, they'll start checking it out, buy a new boat or something else, and it'll just happen exactly what Mr. Kupka said. Then those watermen will run from the water into the woods, then they'll chase them in the woods again and prove they were sitting on the water before. So this is the situation. So what you said isn't true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u71	Thank you. The factual remarks of Mr Kupka, Mr Bartoň, Mr Novák and Mr Luzar will follow. Therefore, only those Members whom we will be able to meet before 13:00 will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u72	Well, he's really so - it's not just a case of cycling trips, but it's really happening here and there. And it happens little precisely because it often seems absurd to members of the Police of the Czech Republic and simply tries to avoid such situations naturally unless there is a direct dramatic command or security action from above. However, the basic meaning of the law is that they should pay, and the state, if it doesn't want to lie in its pocket, must consistently monitor whether they are respected. And if they don't keep up, then there's chaos, and then there's an even bigger problem than we'd like to imagine. We can't just say that the fact that at the moment some situation is actually normal, like it's completely out of control, so we're supposed to accept it, and we're supposed to wave our hands at it. It can't work like that. Laws are supposed to be consistent with good practice and common sense. Well, that's my answer to that. And, of course, at a time when it would be said that it would be strictly controlled, as the law should be strictly controlled, so the absurd situations, grotesque, simply occur on the water.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u73	Thank you. Mr Bartoň and his factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u74	Thank you. I would also respond to Mr Feranc. Yes, this law is called upon by need. It's triggered by the need that it is now. Because if we have sanctions, if we have some kind of regulation that people don't think is good and they're forced to deliberately break it, then this law shouldn't be built at all. [[13.00 hours]] This means that at present, up to 80 per cent of watermen will consume alcohol on the water. If we take that, how many abstinences there are in the population at all, it's kind of a match. It just belongs there. Watermen are ordinary people, and they don't want to break the law. Why do we force them to break the law in the ordinary conduct of watermen? If we remove this from the section on offenses, we won't force them to break the law. And those who don't want to break those laws will act as standard. They're gonna act like they've been acting up until now, except they're not gonna knowingly break the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u75	Thank you. I note that in a general debate which we have not yet completed and which will continue later, a proposal was made for a repeat of the second reading submitted by Minister Ťok. The House will vote on this proposal after the end of the debate. At this point, I'm interrupting this point because it's coming up at 13 o'clock. I state that the Organizing Committee will meet at 1:05 p.m. and we will continue to discuss the second reading of the State Budget Act at 14:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-009-126.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. So we will begin the afternoon agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, and here we have the next item.
