ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-001-060.u1	60. Czech National Bank Report on Inflation - January 2018 (The Monetary Development Report for the Second Half of 2017) /German Press 82/ - First Reading The report is submitted by the Governor of the Czech National Bank, who is entitled in this case to attend the meeting of the House, and must be given the floor in accordance with Section 3 (1). 2 Act on the Czech National Bank. Allow me to welcome the governor here. According to Law No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, the Czech National Bank is obliged to report to the Chamber of Deputies at least twice a year on monetary developments. I will ask the Governor of the Czech National Bank, Jiří Rusnok, to give us this message on the microphone. Please, you have the floor. I'm gonna ask for more peace in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-001-060.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present the last report on inflation, which contains a description of the current economic development, but also a forecast for the following period and the resulting conclusions for the monetary policy of the Czech National Bank. The growth of the Czech economy gradually accelerated over the last year and reached a value of 5.1 % in real terms of gross domestic product growth in the fourth quarter according to preliminary estimates, followed by an estimate of 4.5 percent all year round. This very successful growth in the context of European, but also world development was driven mainly by household consumption and investment. Most sectors of the national economy, especially industry and services sectors, were successful. According to our current forecast, the growth of the Czech economy will slow slightly this year and next year, but it will continue to exceed 3%. The economy will continue to be supported by growing external demand, robust consumption of Czech households and overall strong domestic investment activity. The increasing demand for work is reflected in continued rapid wage growth in an increasingly visible shortage of free labour. Inflation at the end of last year was in the upper half of the tolerance band of the Czech National Bank's inflation target with a gradual downward trend. This decline continued in January this year, when we reached a level of 2,2 percent of annual inflation growth. However, overall inflation pressures remain relatively strong, reflecting particularly accelerating wage dynamics in conditions of strong economic growth. Domestic inflation pressures are expected to increase in the short term following the already mentioned tense labour market situation. Subsequently, they will also gradually moderate with the contribution of the stabilization of the monetary policy of the Czech National Bank. The increasing anti-inflationary effect of import prices will reflect this year mainly the strengthening exchange rate of the Czech koruna. At the same time, the one-off effects that increased inflation last year will also fade away. We therefore expect inflation to start to decline at the end of the year, and that is below 2% at the monetary policy horizon, sometime in mid-2019. [[9.10 hours]] With regard to the growth of domestic market interest rates, our forecast is in line with the fact that these rates will increase slightly further this year and next year, and this should also contribute to the return of inflation back to the level of our target. According to our forecast, the koruna exchange rate will further strengthen against the euro. This will, in particular, be due to the rise in the interest rate differential vis-à-vis the euro area, as well as to the very relaxed ongoing monetary policy by the European Central Bank, which continues to purchase assets of EUR 30 billion per month and should do so until the end of September. In the direction of strengthening the exchange rate of our currency, there will also be continued real convergence, or closer the Czech economy to the eurozone countries, which is also linked to the growing productivity of labour. Starting with this forecast, which we approved at our February meeting, the CNB as one, perhaps completely alone, perhaps one of the few in the world, has returned to publish a figure forecast of the koruna's exchange rate against the euro. This forecast is intended to provide some guidance on the future setting of our monetary policy. But, as in the case of interest rates in terms of their forecast, it is neither the CNB's commitment nor the preferred or desirable level that we would declare in this way. It is a model calculation that fits consistently with our macroeconomic model, and it is based on monetary policy thinking. At its February monetary meeting, as I have already mentioned, the Bank Board assessed the risks of the forecast with regard to inflation at the monetary policy horizon, i.e. sometime in the middle of next year, as balanced. At the same time, it noted that there are two two-way uncertainties in this forecast. The first concerns the strength of current and future domestic inflation pressures, in other words, how strong the pressure from the domestic rising economy, demand for labour, price increases including wages, and, on the other hand, the question of exchange rate developments, where, of course, strengthening the exchange rate leads to a weakening of domestic inflation pressures despite falling import prices. At the end of our meeting, the Board unanimously decided to increase the two-week response by 25 basis points to the current 0,75 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. I'm ready for any questions you may have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-001-060.u3	Thank you, Mr. Governor. The report was discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered to you as House Press 82/1. I would ask that the rapporteur, Mr Karel Rais, take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-001-060.u4	Have a good day, everyone. The report contains, of course, what we have heard and what we discussed at the exit meeting of the Budget Committee, which had the honour and opportunity to visit the CNB and discuss with the workers. I would underline what the Governor said here about the fact that the CNB is one of the few that gives a kind of forecast for monetary developments. That's what we discussed there, too. I think the situation is - it's a prognosis today, but the situation is favorable, so I can only confirm what the governor said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-001-060.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. Then I will ask for a detailed debate on the motion for a resolution. I am initiating a general debate on this issue and I am asking whether anyone is interested in speaking in the general debate. At this point, I don't see anyone who'd sign up. Therefore, I am ending the general debate. I ask whether there is an interest in the final words after the general debate by the Governor. It's not like that. We will therefore proceed to the debate in detail, which the rapporteur has signed up to at this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-001-060.u6	Thank you. I would like to present the resolution of the Committee on Budgets from the 5th meeting of 14 February this year on the CNB Inflation Report, House Press 82. After the opening words of Vice-Governor Tomšík, Mr Rais's report, and after the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic first notes the CNB's report on inflation I, a report on monetary developments in the first to fourth quarters of 2017. Second, it recommends: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies takes note of the CNB Inflation Report I, a report on monetary developments in the first to fourth quarters of 2017. Thirdly, it instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of this resolution, which I am doing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-001-060.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I ask if anyone else wants to speak in detail. It's not like that. I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. Neither the Governor nor the rapporteur are interested in final words. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the resolution tabled. The resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the CNB report on inflation." [[Report on monetary developments for the first to fourth quarters of 2017]] I've called in my colleagues from the lobby, and we can proceed to the vote. I ask who is in favour of this resolution. Who's against it? Voting number 61, 148 Members voted in favour of 142, against no one, this proposal was adopted. I am therefore of the opinion that I would approve the motion for a resolution. I thank the Governor and the rapporteur, and I conclude this point. Let me read an additional apology. Mr. Transport Minister Dan Ťok apologizes today until 12.00 hours for work reasons. The next item is
