ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u1	5. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 70/2013 Coll., amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, as amended, and Act No. 183/2017 Coll., which amends certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on Liability for Misdemeanors and Proceedings and the Act on Certain Infractions, as amended by Act No. 370/2017 Sb. /house print 27/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 We proceed by making a decision. Since the veto was submitted on 23 January 2018 for the procedure under Section 90 para. 2, so we will proceed in a proper manner. The motion submitted under the authority of the Senate will be presented by Senator Vladimír Plaček, whom I welcome here. Before taking the floor, I am still saying that the rapporteur for first reading is Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, whom I will ask to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u2	Good afternoon, Mr President, dear Government, dear fellow Members. As Mr President has said, you are discussing a Senate draft law on medicines, which was intended to address one fundamental and fundamental point, to delay the general obligation to issue electronic recipes for all medical devices, in addition to the exceptions given by the decrees, by two years. This Senate proposal was adopted by the Senate on 6 December last year, on 7 December it was transferred to the Chamber of Deputies and on 8 December you had the opportunity to meet it. For the sake of urgency, the Senate has requested a hearing pursuant to § 90 para. 2, although we have now heard that the veto no longer applies. However, the assumption was that the law would be negotiated at the time of December, as the draft effectiveness of this law was proposed from 31 December 2017. This date was not random, it was set precisely to make the obligation I am talking about at all to 1. 1. 2018 did not happen. The House has not discussed this proposal, and it is now a question of whether it is at all to discuss this Senate proposal on that date, however, if it is again in accordance with Section 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 has not been approved, so it is discussed in the ordinary way, and the question is whether anyone would have read an amendment that would delay this date. I'm sure you have an incredible amount of information around electronic recipes. Everyone gets them from the doctors in your circuits. Of course, I'm getting them, too, and they're unfortunately negative. I would allow you to begin before I introduce you to why the Senate has approached this proposal, to introduce you to such two responses. I will quote two unnamed doctors how the State Institute for Drug Control works: Despite repeated attempts with the participation of Medicus operators, we tried to get eRecipe working in vain. The system says everything's fine, but it only prints clean recipes. The operators are unable to answer that and inform us that the error is in the SÚKL. We've been trained to treat patients, I have three tests, but I can't do magic with professionals about software. If this goes on - I quote - I'm not giving Bolshevik a year, but a week at most, with forensic consequences. - I quote again, I'm sorry. - Such a mess in health care hasn't been effective pharmacotherapy in the past. Second response: My request to the SÚKL has been since November, when we were promised that they would definitely be done in time. During the meeting with the Deputy Director of SÚKL at the full republical meeting of practitioners in Milovy, everything was said, explained, including difficulties with non-functioning telephone lines etc. Absolutely unanswered. They say "we're not responsible for anything, and everything works right." Madam, ladies and gentlemen, it is very clear to the Senate that electronisation seems impossible to prevent. There is no question of the electronisation itself as such, but unfortunately the unpreparedness of what SÚKL did last year. The general obligation of all doctors, apart from exceptions from the decree and all patients, is also, of course, for discussion. The question is whether it should ever be. For example, if a patient doesn't agree to an electronic recipe - not this year, of course, if I assume that a variant of non-sancionization of doctors is accepted, then next year - if he refuses such an electronic recipe, how will the doctor proceed? [[14.40 hours]] By the way, there was quite an interesting meeting yesterday with about a hundred visitors. It was organized by the občan, a registered association, and it was said that this question, as to how the doctor, from Mr Král, would proceed, from the Ministry of Health, should be addressed to another doctor. But the other doctor will have that duty next year. Or that he's supposed to refuse the care. Kind of like revers. In any case, this is not settled. The electronic recipe in its current form offers nothing to doctors. No drug record, no interaction check, no contraindication of prescribed medicinal products, nothing. It's just that they're really, really burdened. They are burdened by the time and difficulty of the whole system. The doctors, of course, started the whole system after the new year, and they started watching that time. Diabetologist's ambulance: one prescription for 40 people in the waiting room, about 45 recipes in that office period means plus half an hour. One formula for 40 seconds. The practitioners figured it out that it's one full office hour, and it's practically lost, because it's just waiting for the system to respond. Whatever we think about the sales log, it's really working in order, I don't know if it's microseconds. This place just doesn't work the way it should. It's really bothering the doctor. Sometimes, of course, the system also has blackouts. I have confirmation that one day it took two hours. What we blamed in the Senate was that there was no planned pilot project to test the whole system, make mistakes, fix it, and then set the whole system off for real. In fact, our proposal for a two-year delay was also in line with the government resolution of 2016, from autumn, November, which planned the launch of this pilot project of the electronic recipe on 1 January 2019, with the fact that it will run six months until 30 June 2019 and the system will start on 1 January 2020, in full compliance with our proposal. He's actually running the pilot project now. Now they're making mistakes, now they're deciding what's next and when everything's actually going to work out. It is quite clear that when health service providers, doctors, learned about the proposal not to sanction this year, it is also understandable that everyone has not been involved in this system since 1 January. Of course, we know that the system works in some way, but not all doctors are there, and some of them can't even be. About 7,000 doctors haven't delivered the access codes from the SÚKL to date. So even if they wanted to, they couldn't get involved in this system. They say they're mostly doctors like the expertise of a radiologist, a pathologist, a microbiologist. It's not true. They are also doctors who provide primary care even in ambulance specialists. Some have been waiting since November, some have even been waiting since October. One other reason, and you can think about what you want, really, older people in general, is also true of older doctors and older doctors, they simply do not have a favourable relationship with electronics. They just can't handle it. Some people are dealing with it by asking companies to make all this work, which is a big risk, because those companies at that point have the access codes that are provided to these people by SÚKL. And it is also clear that even these elders may not have joined this system, they issue recipes in paper form, that they will not be sanctioned and may only end their practice a year later. It's a really big exclamation point in the human resources devastation that's gonna replace them. Of course, they are mostly operators of outpatient health services, it can be assumed that their practice will be sold, bought by doctors from hospitals. Then who's gonna be in the hospitals? And finally, maybe the last point. He may be in danger of the whole system for another reason. I'm not an IT guy, but according to the information I've received, it may be a problem that the information that's on the prescription means information about the patient and information about the prescribed medicinal product, in some way it has to be transcoded into the barcode or QR code, and it's supposedly this way of transcoding it is protected by a patent. It's a question of whether it really is, or not, and it's also possible that this will be decided by the court. And then he'll de facto decide on the whole system of electronic recipes. It is also possible that even the period of two years proposed by the Senate in the Senate bill will not be enough. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I will, of course, be glad to hear your response to my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u3	I thank Mr Vladimír Plačka and now ask that the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, take the floor. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u4	Have a good afternoon, everyone. We are in a special situation here, because we have a Senate law that is too late in time, because it would already have to deal with things retroactively, because the law has already been passed and is valid, and this is its change. And that Senate proposal says a number of things that I can agree with, and we can all agree, because unfortunately, the electronic recipe has been being prepared for ten years, and due to the inability of the SÚKL, it currently does not perform any of the functions other than that of a regular paper recipe. However, we are now in a situation where we have an expired draft amendment by the Ministry or, respectively, the Minister, with the penalty for the prescription of paper being abolished for a period of one year. What does that mean? By law, the pharmacy is obliged to issue a cure for the paper recipe. The fact that it's on paper media can, or should only punish SÚKL, it has nothing to do with the pharmacy. So this proposal, submitted by the Ministry, says that they can run paper and electronic recipes next to each other for one year. It is a very crucial thing, because I believe that in that period of one year, the electronic recipe of practice will actually be tried. The Ministry should also, in cooperation with SÚKLEM and his new leadership, ensure that all the functions he should have, from what Mr. Senator said, the possibility of writing opiates through the possibility of entering the drugs the patient is taking after the removal of a number of technical defects that are there and which are being discussed, over that period of one year could occur that the electronic recipe would be accepted by the medical company. I am even convinced that at the end of that one year, when all of this takes place, it will be so majority writing electronic recipes that we will be able to become a European country on a level and cultural level and say: for us, writing an electronic recipe is voluntary, stimulated by some kind of bonification, as it is now, and 99 percent of doctors will write. And those who won't write, it's their decision. I believe that the doctors should also have freedom in this matter, but the question is, what will it look like after that year, and if the situation is such that we can say yes, like Germany, like France, like Holland, we are the country where it is written voluntarily, but everyone writes it. It's the same as in the British Kingdom. They don't have a mandatory medical chamber, but no doctor can imagine running a practice without being a member of the British Medical Association. Because this solution, which we now have on the table, as the Ministry has put it, is a solution that gives room for all errors in the electronic recipe to be removed, allows parallel writing of paper and electronic recipes and allows reflections from time to time on the fact that the obligation, and every obligation is wrong, does not have to be formulated, I suggest that this Senate proposal be rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open the debate where I have Mr Milan Brázdil's envoy, but with priority rights the Minister of Health is reporting. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me just say to this material that, as has already been said, this press is obsolent, because it is not voteable, given that it has calculated or is counting on abolishing the obligation that has already occurred 1. 1. 2018 Effective of Act 70/2013 Coll. That means, from my point of view, the proposal is not voteable, that has already been said here. However, I would like to comment on the substance, because there have been a lot of things that I completely cannot agree with, although I myself am not a supporter of the previous procedure of the State Institute for Drug Control, namely the Ministry of Health. I have repeatedly said that the system is delayed, that it really was not prepared as I would have expected, or probably both professional and lay public, that not everyone in that system is registered. On the other hand, the numbers that were said here don't apply. Indeed, the number of doctors in that system - today we have about 40,800 applications, being processed is 5, 336. There's about 4,000 applications on the medical chamber. If we have any numbers, and unfortunately no one today knows exactly how many doctors we have, but the estimate is somewhere around 43,000 doctors, so we see in those numbers that virtually all doctors are registered in that system. That means they have undergone the registration process and prepared for the electronic recipes, and I thank them in this regard. After all, when we look at the numbers of prescribed recipes, the electronic ones - and it is available on the website of the State Institute for Drug Control, the information is public, there are graphs for every day, how many medications have been prescribed, respectively. how many recipes have been prescribed - so we see that the number is rising steadily. The day before yesterday, it was a record of 245,000 electronic recipes in one day. Overall, we are somewhere on the number of over a million electronic recipes per week. If we have an estimate that total recipes are prescribed about 6 to 7 million a month, we see that we are somewhere at 70 percent of all recipes, i.e. 70 percent is prescribed electronically. That means the system works. And I feel that what I've heard here was just those arguments from some representatives, I stress some of the representatives of the medical public represented primarily by the Czech Medical Chamber, who repeatedly warned about how it would collapse, how the Czech health care will collapse from 1. 1. 2018 etc. It's just a catastrophic scenario that clearly didn't come true. And that's what I'd like to say here. The system may indeed have certain errors, certain birthing pains, if I call it that, but it does not mean that the Czech health care will collapse in any way and the system will not work and patients will not receive their medications. It's not like that, and we see it on the data. That's the hard data. So from my point of view, it's actually kind of a emotional discussion, I wouldn't be afraid to call it a little demagogic, because we see that doctors have registered into the system, the system works. Of course, what I said was that the whole process is a little late, so that's why I suggested that the sanctions be postponed. The proposal will be discussed at third reading, today it has passed the Guarantee Committee on Health and we will be able to vote on it shortly. I think this is a solution for us as the Ministry of Health, namely for the State Institute for Drug Control, to do what we have to do, and I agree with that, we really have improved the system to implement the so-called system into it. Drug record, which again needs to be amended by the Act on Medicines. But we're ready for that, we have a legislative plan that in May the law should go to the government, so we've really started working on it intensively. Then, of course, it will depend on the next trial, but I believe that the change will be managed so that there is a pharmaceutical record from 1. 1. 2019 has been implemented. On the other hand, if we're talking about responsibilities or optionality here, if the drug record is supposed to make any sense, and that's, of course, to explain the drug record, that's sharing data on the prescription of drugs between providers. This means the patient goes to the doctor, the doctor prescribes a certain medicine for him, and then the patient goes to another doctor, and the other doctor sees what was previously prescribed for him, and sees that for example. He can't prescribe a certain drug that's in adverse interaction, which means he could damage the patient's health, not take his life. Of course, these cases happen, it's in hundreds of cases a year, when patients die as a result of bad transcription, as a result of prescribed medications that go against each other. And that's what the drug record is supposed to reveal. But to make sense, there's got to be data on the drugs. And the data will only be there in a moment if the system is mandatory. This means, indeed, that all doctors will contribute to the drug record and will therefore have a sense for patients and, of course, for doctors, because that way the doctor will have an overview and it cannot happen that he will prescribe a medicine that can simply be harmful to the patient. So I think that even the obligation of an electronic recipe really makes sense in this regard. I wouldn't even agree that today's electronic recipe doesn't bring any added value. He brings it. For example, when we look at the classic paper recipes, today's doctor, if he prescribes a prescription for a paper prescription and you go to the pharmacy with it, it often happens that the pharmacist changes the drug for some other active substance, and the doctor doesn't know about it at all. And, of course, there may be some differences now. So the doctor doesn't actually know today when he prescribes a certain medicine to the patient, if the patient actually picked up the medicine and if it's the medicine the doctor prescribed. He doesn't know. He'll know about the electronic recipe today. Then there is another question, that we actually have a large number of chronically ill patients who are basically incurable, are only treatable, that is, are regularly prescribed certain medications for their disease, and patients - the practice works - simply go to the doctor regularly only and only for the purpose of prescribed the medicine. That means, they go, they spend a few hours of time going to that office, they spend an hour two in the waiting room again before it's their turn to get a doctor to prescribe a prescription for them in a minute and then go home. I think that for some patients who need to be economically active and have to take vacations and so on, the electronic recipe is a huge asset, because at this point in time, the patient, the chronic, can ask the doctor, and he only sends him the recipe by text or email, the function already works, or through a mobile app that also works. A patient with this text, with an e-mail, goes to the pharmacy with the code, and the medicine is issued to him as standard. I think that, even for patients in this regard, it is a huge contribution, especially for those chronics that are a large number. So I don't agree that the electronic recipe has any added value, respectively. that the electronic recipe is exactly the same as the paper recipe today. It's just not like that. So for myself, I really think that the whole system, even though I was critical of it, and I'm critical of it, and I think that it could do more today, and it was promised, and it wasn't respected - I wasn't there - so, of course, it's critical, I get that. But let's not criticize the system itself, virtually. The project, because the project has a purpose. When we look at the electronization of health care in the Czech Republic at all, we are really on the brink within Europe. Maybe Romania's behind us in some research. When we look at countries west of us or north of us, the really electronization of health is there at a much higher level, the sharing of data between providers works. I think that the electronic recipe is simply the first tool for the real electronicisation of Czech health care, for sharing data on the prescription of medicines, for ensuring quality and safe care for patients. And, of course, certain precautions for doctors to prescribe medications for their patients. [[15.00 hours]] So, from my point of view, I'm actually planning for this proposal to be rejected and for the chance to actually be given to my proposal, that is to postpone sanctions, with the fact that please give us, as the Ministry of Health and the SÚKL, a chance to improve the system. We are ready for this, we are ready to do a global campaign this year. We're starting, we're already on clear deadlines, we're going to be in one county every month, we're going to have big seminars for doctors focused primarily on older doctors, those doctors in the countryside, we're going to show them how the electronic recipe works, we're going to try to show them how it really makes sense for them, how the system works, so we can prepare them for it. But if we approve the system today that it will be optional, then I think the whole thing will fall under the table, the idea will fall at all because I think if it is optional, the doctors will simply not use it, probably for certain reasons, maybe just some comfort often. I really think we should reject the proposal and give the system a chance. So thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u7	I thank the Minister of Health of the Czech Republic, Adam Vojtěch, and before I continue - first there will be a factual comment by Mr David Kasal, then Mr Brázdil, then Mr Senator for the plaintiff. Apologies first. Minister of Transport Dan Ťok apologizes from 16 am to the end of the day and from 16.30 pm to the end of the day Mr Mikuláš Peksa. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u8	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address Mr Plaček from the Senate through the President, because I am surprised by one thing. For us to have the system running at this time 24 days, such practical doctors and specialists have already calculated that it takes them an hour, they lose an hour writing recipes. Other colleagues 40 minutes. I don't think you can tell in such a short time. That's one thing. Because I have the advantage of prescribing the recipes to the system, too, and the question is that the system works fine for us. We're in - I have a recipe in three seconds. And the second thing is that at the moment, if we should stay on writing recipes with our hands, aside from the fact that many of us doctors write so illegiblely that the pharmacist often doesn't know what he is publishing, but the second thing is, and here it was also mentioned, if we have patients with chronics that we're writing three or four prescriptions, the moment we have them on our computer list, it's printed out by one press. So I would really argue about whether the time that was mentioned here, whether it was really true, and where you eventually came up with the numbers, whether it was given by a professional company or by whom. But after 24 days of having this sophisticated data, I don't think it's even possible. And the question is really what is the Internet connection, because it usually makes it the biggest problem in making it work well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u9	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact to Mr Kasal. Mr Milan Brázdil will now appear in the debate, Mr Senator Plaček will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u10	Good evening, sorry, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It's already evening. It's a long time. I'm not gonna prolong it. I have applied for a general debate, but almost everything has been said here. I would just say that by not discussing it in the '90s, and even there's a motion for rejection, it doesn't mean that you'll be somewhat prevented from expressing yourself tomorrow. Looks like tomorrow morning, Friday morning, when we should be discussing that government bill where it's possible to postpone it by being optional. There's a proposition like that, but there's only the "sorry" for that year. If we can, let's cut to the chase, there's been a lot of talk here, let's vote on rejection at first reading, and we'll decide on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u11	I thank Mr Brázdil, Mr Senator Plaček, Mr Václav Klaus will be ready. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u12	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, honourable Government. I must turn against the Minister's words. I'm a doctor, too. And it should be said that the system did not kneel precisely because doctors are most helpful to their patients. Please, let's remember one thing. From 1 January 2018, electronic recipes are mandatory. And those who publish them at this point in favor of a patient in paper form, they de facto violate the law. And the fact that this change is not going to be discussed until this year, now I hear it sometime in May - can you imagine some crazy official who's going to start working? I understand that there's this obsessive thing that's gonna stop driving, but please, let's see what kind of situation these doctors are in. Then I would like to reply, by your means, Mr President, to Mr Kasal. Of course, I have the information from practice, I asked in a targeted way, it's really a diabetic ambulance in Opava, which I quoted, and I have the practice through the association -- the information mediated. And one more comment, please. The minister said, yes, I understand, the system is really going to be perfect, fantastic if all the doctors are really included. But they won't always be there, and no matter what. Can you imagine a practical doctor going to visit and publishing and writing everything in electronic form? So it's going to pull a medical cable, so it's going to have some other electronics, or I can't really picture it. So the system will never be 100%. And another example. People in social services facilities. In the vast majority there are no ambulance doctors, where the doctors commute. The doctors will also publish it in paper form. It's just unrealistic. The system will never be 100%, but if it can do anything that's been said at least a little bit, I understand that some of them will be very happy. To be honest, a few years ago, at our medical meeting, my colleague, an allergist, praised it. Even then. Yes, because he has chronic patients, and the electronic recipes made his job easier. So if it brings something to the doctors and makes their work easier, then of course, they'll be happy to join it. But please again, considering whether it should be mandatory for all pharmacies, for all doctors and for all patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u13	I thank the Senator and his speech has raised factual points. I've got four. I will therefore ask Mr Klaus to be patient, who is duly registered. First point of fact - the Minister of Health, then Mr Vyzula, then Mr David Kasal and then the rapporteur. There. Please, Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u14	Thank you. A real point - the May. It wasn't that there would be no sanctions in May. May I said there was a legislative plan for an amendment to the law that would introduce the drug record. Those sanctions, they're just being dealt with in that government proposal that we're going to discuss this week at third reading and then go to the Senate, and I believe it's going to be backed up to actually postpone those sanctions as quickly as possible. And as for those doctors who need visiting services, I would like once again to remind the senator, through Mr President, that the question is irrelevant, because there is a decree, an implementing decree for this law, which clearly provides for a few exceptions, where the recipe does not need to be prescribed electronically, and, among other things, it is the exception where the doctor goes into the patient's home environment, that is, the visiting service, when it is, of course, absurd for him to carry a computer and a printer. In such a case, it may prescribe a recipe in a classical form. Another exception is, for example, if he prescribes a recipe for himself or his relatives, in which case he may also prescribe a paper form. And there are other exceptions in case of a blackout of the Internet, in case of a power failure, etc. So it is actually remembered by the decree in my opinion that all cases where it would be disproportionately burdensome for the doctor to prescribe a prescription electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another factual point by Mr Rostislav Vyzula. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon. A real comment on Mr. Senator Plačka. It's about what the Minister has been talking about. It has been said that doctors who write a recipe in paper form violate the law. This is a very serious matter! We don't want the law to be broken. That's why there are some measures that lead to those doctors not being affected in any way. One is just the decree that was said. The doctor simply writes on the back - for technical reasons according to § 11 para. (d) - and is off the hook. The second thing is that in the proposed amendment, there is also a transitional provision in the Act on Medicines, when all events occur. administrative proceedings against this law shall be suspended. So doctors don't have to worry about breaking the law. That's one thing. And the other thing. Mr. Senator Plaček has been haunting us here in the sense that most doctors disagree with the system and have reservations about it. He even quoted some examples. Please, it was quite clear here, this is the information from the SÚKL that we have 70% of the success of electronic recipes in 24 days. When we dealt with Denmark, how things were going with them, they told us that it took them ten years to get to 90% success rate. And we have 70 percent in 24 days. I thank all the doctors who have approached this very much, do not cause problems and believe that this is a good system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr David Kasal, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u18	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad my colleague Plaček answered my question. If it's just one example, it could really be the connection. I was talking about myself, but I was talking explicitly about the entire Chrudim hospital, where there are 90 doctors, and it works smoothly in all departments. Of course, these hospitals probably have a little bit of an advantage that there's an IT department, etc. etcetera, but from this point of view, it's really systemically ensured well. So we can't generalize from one ambulance for all specialists.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u19	Thank you. And now Mr Bohuslav Svoboda's factual comment, Mr Plaček will prepare for the factual remark. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor on a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u20	In fact, in those technical notes, everything I would say has already been said. I'll say one thing. We doctors are presented here as some sort of group of people who are holding off electronics in this country. I would like to say that 90 percent of us write recipes electronically. We just write them on the computer, the computer fills in the name, address, date, everything else. And if I need to repeat the recipe, he's gonna print it all over the place with a stamp on it. The problem we're protesting is that this electronic recipe doesn't bring anything new. What I'm doing, I'm gonna do now, and another piece of paper comes out. And I'd like that paper to bring something. But he doesn't bring anything else. And that's why it bothers me that it cost hundreds of millions, and it's the same thing I do when I write a prescription on my computer, print it out, and give it to the patient. I'm not writing it, it's writing the computer. It's no technical problem for us. For us, the problem is that it doesn't fulfil the functions that it was supposed to do. And that should fix the seasons, those functions should get there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give the floor to Senator Plačka on a point of fact, I will ask the House for peace of mind! [[Big noise in the hall, next thing you know, it's getting louder.]] Who is discussing something other than the amendment to the Drug Act, please in the foyer. You have your word, Senator, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u22	Mr President, Mr Government, honourable Members, thank you for the floor. I, by your means, Mr President, to Mr Vyzula. I wasn't talking about any number of doctors saying no. I was just talking about the situation. Measures are being implemented, yes, but unfortunately late. They run at a time when the law is already effective. I am still speaking through you to Mr Kasal. You will find more feedback, please, in other media. I chose only two that I was interested in, which said actually the most important way in which the system reacts. And maybe everything for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Václav Klaus, now duly signed up in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I'm sorry that I'm the first non-doctor to talk about this subject here, but my daughter, who's going to prom on Thursday, is applying to medical school, so if you don't drive me away from the counter. It concerns all of us, of course, but of course my view will be very lay. I'll tell you three cases that this new EET has gotten to me for doctors lately. First example. Child doctor, pediatrician, our Elinka told me - please put it down or cancel it, it's crazy. Okay. Second example. My girlfriend went to the doctor, the clinic professor, she was examined. After that, the professor spent about 30 minutes with the help of Lapiduch and three sisters printing an electronic recipe and a very undignified swearing. My girlfriend went to the pharmacy after all, and they didn't tell her it couldn't be done. horko was hard to make a phone call, and then they sent out a text recipe, and it went through for some mysterious reason. Dozens of minutes of people who engage in patients or who want to pick up their meds have been bullied. And the third example. The President of the Czech Medical Association is writing to me, which brings together all the doctors. He writes: An irresponsible experiment with mandatory electronic recipes has thrown our health care into chaos. Patients were not harmed by the fact that doctors are willing to continue to exhibit recipes in a classic way, etc. etc. etc.. So, like we non-medical people, 99 percent of the population, I think I see these government novelties -- electronize everything, order people something, and it doesn't work at the core, and you deal with it in the field. So I strongly support the Senate proposal and support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u25	I thank Mr Klaus. Now two factual points - Mr Jakub Michálek and then Mr David Kasal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u26	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to follow up on that because I had exactly the same problems as my previous speaker's friends. I really don't think the deployment went well. And I'd like to ask you all the next time we deploy - and it's not a party thing, let's just remember that the ODS has gone through projects like Opencard or Driver Register, so sometimes something goes wrong. [[The noise in the hall.]] But let's try to make sure that the next project that we're going to do in the field of digitalization is really successful and that it goes on gradually and doesn't happen what happened with the eRecipe right now. Because then the doctors come to me, too, and they say, for God's sake, stop it, 'cause we're really gonna spend 20 minutes in that office where we're waiting. I think that the decision taken by the Minister of Health is correct that the suspension of sanctions is a sufficient solution. But I'd like us not to discredit the entire digitization process. Because using new technologies where it has a place and where it is useful and it brings savings is right. But we really need to figure out that it brings the savings and that it doesn't make people crazy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u27	Thank you for keeping time. Mr David Kasal, then Mr Stanjura, then Mr Minister of Health. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. By your means, I would like to see my colleague Klaus. I guess he was just unlucky, even though my colleague Michálek said he had a problem with that, too. However, I would like to say that the electronic recipe is already under the 2008 Act. And we've been introducing him for ten years. And it happened in the past period. We were so glad we made it this way. It can be criticized. But there are two critics here: on the one hand, it's not complete, and on the other hand, it's not working. From this point of view, I am very happy that the simple version has passed in quotation marks, that it fulfils the function of connecting and monitoring recipes at this time about, and that even a number of doctors who wrote manually will print on a printer or via a computer. And if it doesn't have the functions on the drug record yet, I think it's even good, because of course the more complex the system, the more errors and the longer the extension times would be. So, on the contrary, I think that if it's introduced like this in two steps, that the first step is actually area deployment and deployment, and in the second step it's adding individual issues as a puzzle, it's not going to be wrong at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, President Stanjura, with a point of fact. He's downloading. Okay. Thank you. The Minister of Health does not withdraw it, he will make his point of order. And I have Mr. Válek's application. Please, Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u30	I think it's generalized here from some particular experience. So I can also say here, I can quote from the letter sent to me by the President of the Czech Medical Association, who sent me the reactions of the doctors who came to him, and oddly not all of them were negative, there were a number of positives. I can read one of them here from one gynecologist: "I have been using electric recipes for the second year without any problems. I'm more than happy with it myself. It saves me, among other things, the amount of time I can spend on patients. And the women in the office really appreciate it. I am surprised, therefore, that there are many colleagues who reject them." So we can just say, we can talk about who has the experience here. But it really isn't black and white with the fact that I'm saying that it may actually have some kind of birthing pain. In my opinion, we needed to run the system so that we could load it up and see if it worked. I have to say, before that, 1. 1. a number of doctors warned that it would collapse, and I really wouldn't want to compare it here to a vehicle register that actually collapsed and didn't work in a fundamental way. Here on the numbers I've said several times - a million recipes a week - we can see that's not the case. So please, let's not generalize here based on some individual experience. Let's give it time. Let's give it a chance to actually go through the birthing pains, maybe make up for the mistakes. We as Ministry and SÚKL are ready for this, we will work hard on this all year. And let's see how this works in the fall. And then maybe we can have some more fun. But please give us a chance to actually make all these mistakes, and the system was functional and it was in favor of both patients and doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u31	I thank the Minister for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give the floor to Mr Ferjenčík on another factual point, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Between 15 o'clock and 15.45, Mr Lukáš Kolářík apologizes for the hearing. Mr Ferjenčík - factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u32	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to ask the Minister if he's sure that the letter wasn't written by Marek Prchal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u33	Thank you. Now, Mr Válek, in a proper application for a debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a doctor, unlike my colleague Klaus, but like all of you here, I am also a patient. Not at the moment, but a week ago I was, and soon I will be, because gradually, as my years are growing, it is very likely that I will be a patient more often than a doctor. I suppose each and every one of you has been a patient for once in your life. And I don't think it's good that we've been talking about doctors all this time. I firmly believe that none of the ministers involved in this strange law made it for doctors, but made it for patients. The law was meant to benefit patients, to simplify their lives, to reduce their complications by having prescribed medications from different doctors, to simplify the system, to allow them to consult the central database. And none of the benefits patients should have from him yet. Theoretical advantage that could be that I write a prescription to a patient electronically, or that I, as a patient, get a prescription electronically, it will be sent to an e-mail address or any such procedure, if I am a chronic patient, I will not have to visit the doctor, especially those medications that I receive repeatedly prescribed, and this advantage probably has that advantage. Those of you who are practitioners here, those who are specialists here, gynecologists, know that birth control and others work like this. I'd like us to talk about what we're going to do with the law in order to make it as useful as possible for our patients, virtually. for all of us, because we're all patients, either we are or we are, or we are. Secondly, I would very much like to hear the answer to my question, which I have asked several times, how a doctor will be able to write an electronic recipe to himself and his family members. I know - in writing. But I'd like to hear if I can ever write myself an electronic recipe. I registered, as well as 52 other radiologists at my clinic, as well as 170 other ESL doctors from Brno University Hospital. And it sucks because I can't use an electronic recipe. I can't write it down to myself. So I would like to hear the answer to this question, when can it be considered? And then there's a third thing that's not irrelevant. The third thing is pharmacies. That means I'd like to be reassured and reassured that the way we think about the first page, those who prescribe the recipe, so that the prescription is as simple as possible and that it makes life easier for patients, that we will also think about the other side, those who publish the medicine, so that even here it works well and that even here it works fast. My idea is, if there is a full electronization of the recipe, everything will work, so that the dispensation of drugs in pharmacies will dramatically accelerate, simplifies. But the reality is the other way around, completely the other way around. I don't know if any of you have any experience with any pharmacy, and the pharmacy or the pharmacy said yes, yes, our electronic recipe has simplified the operation, shortened the queues, everything went easier, faster. So let's not forget that this is also part of the electronic recipe. The electronic recipe is one whole. Okay. If sanctions don't apply, I hope the Ministry will finally work hard on the electronic recipe. But I don't quite believe that everything can be tuned out during the year. I'd like it a lot better if the electronic recipe was optional. For me it can be mandatory as it pleases, I can't write it down anyway, it's pointless, I'm a doctor, I've really studied medicine. Plus, I'd love it a lot better if we were to find out for another year where all these blind spots, which apparently those who have been dealing with it for ten years, didn't even know they existed. So please, we're mostly concerned about patients. We don't care about the doctors. It's just the patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u35	I thank Mr Válek. There is still a factual remark from Mr David Kasal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u36	Thank you for the floor. I, Mr President, will turn your word to my colleague Ferjenčík and I would say to him: No, it certainly was not written by Marek Prchal, because it came directly from the medical chamber to all doctors and apparently the President did not read the whole content, because there were several letters in a row. In the beginning, they were negative, in the second half they were positive. So that's probably why it came - positive and negative. And to Mr Válek, through Mr President. We need to figure out what this system is supposed to do. I was just talking about it. If we have a drug record and there are some contraindications, I'm sure the system will be slower, because the minute the pharmacist finds out, he's gonna tell the patient, and he's gonna have to tell the doctor. Of course, by finding out more information, the system will behave a little differently. That's what we have to count on. So not only are we introducing a goddamn electronization, but the electronization will bring some information that both the pharmacy and the doctor will have to work with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u37	Thank you. One more point in fact, Mr Válek. If there is no further application, I will have the ambition to conclude the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, by the mouth of Mr President, a colleague, and he is a colleague, both of us doctors, to thank Kasal for his explanation. However, it scares me a little bit that something's been preparing for ten years. I didn't sit here in parliament last time, I wasn't even in government. And we still don't know what we want. I'd think the first person was making up what we wanted, and then there's the law, and not that the law is valid for three months or how many, and then they figure out what we're gonna want from him. [[Applause from Members of the TOP 09.]] I think it was an exaggeration that it wasn't quite like that, but that's why I'm a little worried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Since I don't have a written application, I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. No one's coming forward, so I can close the debate. I'm asking for final words. Senator? Your final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u40	Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, I am very pleased that you have listened to what the Senate bill wanted to discuss here in your House. Thank you for your performance, which, of course, was stimulating. As you can see, everyone has their own experience. Some have the most positive, some have the most negative, some have experience somewhere in the middle. Otherwise, of course, it shows that unfortunately, the system has not been perfectly prepared, although it has been working for a long time, but very few doctors have been using it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u41	Senator, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace! We are approaching the conclusion of the negotiations, please hear the final words of the appellant and rapporteur, so that you can decide according to the proposals that have fallen here. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u42	Thank you. I'll be really brief. I just wanted to say that those who used him in the past usually praised him because they knew why they were using him and brought something to them. But unfortunately, there are more negative messages than positive ones. Therefore, it was precisely the proposal to delay the general obligation for all errors to be worked out and corrected, and then, if necessary, the system would be applicable exactly as was envisaged at the beginning. Thank you again for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-010-005.u43	Thank you, Senator Plačka. I'm asking the rapporteur if he's interested in the final word. He's not interested. In the debate and from the rapporteur, the proposal to reject the proposal at first reading has fallen. Isn't that right, rapporteur? We will decide on this proposal in the vote order number 58. I'll check you all out first, ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I would like my colleagues and colleagues, who I have asked to have discussions on another subject in the foyer, to come back. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will begin voting on the motion to reject this proposal at first reading. It's serial number 58 voting, and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to dismiss. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 58 from 148 present for 81 Member, against 39. The motion was accepted. The motion is therefore rejected and we will not continue the commandment of this press. Thank you to Senator Plačka, thank you to the rapporteur. I'm done with point number one. 5. We will continue with the point
