ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-006-999.u1	The joint debate on points 3 and 4 / House prints 89 and 99/ Just for the record, I remind all Members that we have voted to merge the general debate, then we must return to the individual points again, because at second reading, the detailed debate must cover individual points and cannot be merged. But we are now in a merged general debate, in which Mr Kaňkovský signed up, so I give him my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-006-999.u2	Once again, good afternoon, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I will briefly develop my view of the situation around the welfare vouchers, as we discussed in the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and in the meantime with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, with co-chairs, but also with my colleague Pastuchová, how to actually get out of the situation that we have here at the moment. As I have already said in the opening word to the House press 99, both of these proposals go the way of exceptions. We were convinced that, after all, there was a certain risk of abuse of these benefits, and I actually understand the objective that my colleague Pastuchová had with the introduction of lump-sum vouchers in order to prevent this abuse. Unfortunately, it has been a short period of application of the amendment since the last parliamentary term, respectively. the effectiveness has been since December of last year, showed that there are a number of problematic places. It has already been said that there are problems with the distribution of vouchers. That's what we discussed with the MPSV. The situation has improved in the meantime, that must be admitted. Yet for some citizens from smaller settlements, picking up vouchers and especially on their application afterwards, that means picking up the goods, problematic. Their travel costs are increasing. As has already been said, they are unable to pay for a number of things with these vouchers. I was talking about the fact that the most they're probably burdened with the cost of living. These are indeed the priority costs for most of the people needed, but there are other issues that, for example, a colleague named Roman Sklenák mentioned here. After all the consultations, and I have to say that a number of suggestions have been presented by the public defender of rights, but also by civil staff and social workers, the path of exceptions seems problematic to me at the moment, and I say this as the main promoter of the so-called. a competitive proposal, House press 99. That is why I believe that the most honest and sportsiest in the sport terminology would actually be to proceed to what Roman Sklenák was talking about and to submit an amendment to return before the last amendment, that is to say, to abolish the provision on the flat-rate application of subsistence allowances in the range of 35-65 percent and to go back to the individualised way that contained the previous legislation. I don't know how familiar you all are with her, but the opportunity of the workers of the employment offices to apply vouchers to unadapted citizens who abuse benefits was already included in the previous legislation. This means that if we return to legal status before the last amendment, workers of the Labour Office have the possibility to apply vouchers within the same range, i.e. between 35 and 65 per cent, on legitimate suspicion of abuse of benefits. I've been checking the employment offices for how much they used it in the past period. Information from different regions is different, but if we average it, it would be somewhere between 5 and 7 percent. Maybe you're thinking it's not enough. The question is, to what extent it is also about the courage of the workers of the labour authorities. I don't think this situation is easy for them, but there is a possibility. And I am convinced that the individualized approach, that means that we will not apply it to all, to those who behave politely, but unfortunately are in a bad social situation, but we will really only go after the abusers, is a more correct solution than that we will be taxing exceptions here, when unfortunately there is a risk that we will forget any group that is discriminated against by the current situation. So I, too, will submit in a detailed debate on both the Houses' press, both 89 and 99, a proposal to return to the previous legislation, a proposal similar to that of my colleagues Sklenák. Because I do not know how the House will stand up to this, I will also read to both prints some other amendments that go the way of the exceptions to the House press 89. This means that it will be exceptions to Mrs Pastuchová's parliamentary proposal from the flat-rate application of subsistence allowances for seniors over 70 years, for citizens who have been granted disability at level 3 and for those who are caring for a person close to them and for those who are themselves members of a care allowance at stage 2-4. In addition to our parliamentary proposal, that means the House press 99, then I will read the amendment - and here I will admit that I have been inspired by my fellow Member Pastuchová - to remove from the scope of the lump sum vouchers of a person who has long been hospitalized in health establishments. That was the exception that we forgot in our parliamentary amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, as part of the negotiations of the guarantee committee, which will follow the negotiations here at second reading, we can agree on a solution that will resolve the current unhappy problem surrounding the vouchers. As far as the KDU-ČSL is concerned, after all I have said here, we prefer to return at this moment to the individualised form, i.e. the return before the last amendment to the law on material distress. It is only by doing so that we remove the current discriminatory approach to those who really need benefits and use benefits in accordance with the law. And here I would appeal to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to seek more effective mechanisms to control and combat the abuse of this particular levy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-006-999.u3	Thank you. Mrs Šafránková is enrolled in the merged general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-006-999.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, dear colleagues, because in a detailed debate I will sign up for my amendment to the press 99, I would like to introduce you to it now. Compared to the House of Press 99, where the age limit for not picking up vouchers is 68 years old, I am changing to 65 years old and I am adding mother and father to the single child until the 18th year of the child's age, for which the method of payment of the benefit is not used by vouchers authorising the purchase of goods at a specified value. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 6 § 43 of Law No. 111/2006 Coll., on assistance in material distress, as amended, should respect Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, a fixed pension age, which is currently the age of 65 years. The following paragraph is added: 6 in Section 43 of the Annex to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. (f) a significant socially vulnerable group of persons, which should also not be the addressee of the possibility of drawing and using vouchers from beneficiaries of the subsistence allowance, namely the mother and father of the single child until the 18th year of the child's age. [[15.40 hours]] The main reason is that vouchers in material distress are not accepted in all stores. In addition to the purchase of the necessary food for the persons referred to in the proposed paragraph, vouchers may be used only in the network of outlets contracted by suppliers of typified vouchers. 6. This is particularly the case in small municipalities. In the case of single parents and single mothers, the fact also follows that, in the event of the impossibility of applying the voucher in their village, there will be another problem, such as the need to commute to purchase with a small child, in the case of a child's illness the impossibility of purchasing and the associated additional costs incurred for transport. For pensioners and disabled pensioners, transportation to a larger municipality or town is often a great burden, not only for the sake of other funds spent, but such transport is often technically impossible. Because, often, let's think of the elderly as having reduced mobility, they're sick, and it's really complicated for them. In the case of the use of vouchers in contracted stores, there is also a social disadvantage for these persons, pensioners, disabled pensioners, fathers, single mothers in terms of frequent inappropriate comments that they meet in queues at the cash registers. Another major problem is the fact that if the entire value of the voucher is not used, the remaining value of the voucher will fall, as the sellers themselves say, but also the single parents and mothers of their own experience. Problems with the application of these vouchers are also in the case of purchases of medicines and certain food supplements. In particular, elderly, disabled, single - parent fathers and single - parent mothers, it can be assumed that this is an entirely necessary need and the collection of vouchers in material distress makes this need clearly difficult or directly impossible. I therefore ask you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-006-999.u5	Thank you. Furthermore, in the general debate, the merged general debate, Mrs Richterová will speak. In the meantime, I'll introduce you to your apologies by the time he gets to the pitch. Mr Ladislav Okleštěk apologises for the negotiations from 15.30 to 19.00 for working reasons, Mr Robert králíček from 17.00 to 21.00 for working reasons and Mr Tomáš Vymazal for working reasons from 17.00 to the end of the day. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-006-999.u6	Thank you for your word. I think most things have been said here. But maybe the main thing we're considering hasn't been said yet. There's a really big problem for the singles. Exactly here are the specific examples of how people sent me, like when they have partners... like a girlfriend who's single, raises two kids from a previous relationship and gets these vouchers, so those new partners see what the situation is, that business doesn't take it, that it's actually a big problem when you have to pay lunches, etc. But I think this is exactly an example of when we can't actually endlessly try to name what groups of people shouldn't get the vouchers. What groups of people, either they're not guilty in this situation, or there's really no point in trying to illustrate what they're going to buy with the money or not. And we're getting to where the line is. What else do we have to illustrate, what else do we have to control? And I don't think that's what happened here today in this discussion that we just... Perhaps many of us feel some responsibility in a situation where we redistribute public funds, and indeed many people who are low on that income line feel injustice. They feel bad when they see how some people who live on doses deal with it. This didn't say that we had to try to compensate for this sense of injustice. I just think that the right measures are not vouchers, but the right measures really are much wider support for the other poorest, those low-income people who have real problems getting their lives off their wages and salaries, and then they're just wondering if they're worth the effort when someone else, for example, isn't so much worse off with state support. Oh, please, that's the kind of way of measuring people who are all relatively ill. We wouldn't want their lives. And they actually deserve some support, both groups. It's already said here how the black market is blooming. It said here what margins the publishers have of the vouchers. And I would just like to point out in this debate, where arguments are more or less repeated, which have already been made at first reading, that, in a situation where those coupon publishers are actually taking a margin of between 7 and 12 per cent, so, in particular, businessmen in small municipalities, there is nothing left to profit from. And just after that, in the smallest villages, the availability is so bad. So this is just a system problem. If you are from a small village, you are basically discriminated against in the case of receiving these vouchers. That would be all for the general debate for me, for the pirát. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-006-999.u7	Thank you, Madame. Anyone else reporting for the merged general debate? If this is not the case, then the merged general debate on Parliament's press 89, 99, I am ending. I'm asking for final words. Yes, Mrs Pastuchová, as a representative of the plaintiff, is interested in the final word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-006-999.u8	Thank you for the floor. I will react briefly because I think the rapporteur will also respond. I still stand by the purpose of this law. And they're all calling for benefits not to be abused. We did something about it, but actually, as it was said, everyone finds a way, and that's why we're gonna cancel everything and we're not gonna do anything. I wanted to comment on my colleague Sklenák through Mr President. He answered that question by my colleague Kaňkovský, how many benefits were paid at the time it could have been paid. [[It wasn't?]] Five percent. And that's because they were afraid to pay for it at the employment offices, because everyone came in, started yelling, we all know that, and they just didn't give it to them. [[Did you?]] So it didn't have a purpose at all. I'm really glad the subject opened up here because we're talking about 30% of a living dose here. And those benefits in our social system, the generous social system, we have enough. I think from the benefits of living, of 30%, where you can buy clothes, diapers, drugstores, school supplies, food, so I say, I'm in touch with the employment office. They told me they pay 35 percent, they don't pay more. Availability. There were cases, I was in the černý ovec. I've always found cases worthy of special consideration, which I'm putting in my amendment, or in a novel where a single person, four children, can't go for the meal vouchers, but that's what makes it possible for the employment office to send them to him by post. As far as trade is concerned, and as far as availability is concerned. After consulting the Labour Office, this system started to apply on December 1. In fact, the first complications reported were in about 14 days. Today, the net is already covered, and it's getting more and more covered. So there's gonna be more and more of these stores. Even in the small villages. [[15.50 hours]] About my colleague Kaňkovský through Mr President. I didn't really like the sentence to get out of it. I don't think I can get out of this. I think how to fix some of the groups that were touched, but certainly not how to get out of it. I think it's a really short time to evaluate it, and really the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the labour authorities don't have a problem with it. Labor authorities don't have a problem because it takes six months and it just sat down. And Mrs Richterová - with all due respect to you through Mr President. You said the phrase "the single girl who has a boyfriend." Then it can't be a single person. And we're going back to something completely different that's going on here today. Young people don't get married because single mothers are entitled to receive various benefits, even if a friend lives with them in a dwelling, even if control comes in, he is visiting. An example from a nearby Germany - where when it comes to checking into an apartment where a mother receives these contributions, and they find even one thing there, it simply deals with it a little strictly and not like us. I am going back to this again - I am glad that this topic has opened up here, because the system of payment of all benefits in our Republic would really, really, really need a big revision and change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-006-999.u9	Thank you. One more final word from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-006-999.u10	Thank you, Mr President, that was a quick exchange.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-006-999.u11	I am sorry, I will just inform Mrs Richterová that the debate has been closed or the debate has been closed, so a factual point is not possible. I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-006-999.u12	Allow me, from my post as rapporteur, to have a few comments, and to give you a bit of the debate that has been going on here. I understand, of course, my colleagues, whether Mr Sklenák or Mr Kaňkovský, that the information they receive, or even the people with whom they prepare amendments, tell them more or less about the tragedies of these people's lives, etc., and therefore I think it is right, as these two amendments have been prepared, to have clearly defined exceptions in the framework of payment of the obligation in vouchers from that rate of 35 percent and 65 percent. That's one thing. That is why I have given, in agreement with both the appellants, one small amendment, where I actually take the opportunity to take account of the reasons which are worthy of special consideration, because even after consulting the labour authorities themselves, we have come to the conclusion that, if left to the administrative discretion, this is the way to liquidate the entire system. And now maybe even to the debate that was going on here. Shopping cheaper. Well, I have to say that we consulted the labour authorities, and even in any small village of 200 to 300 inhabitants immediately after opening a shop or finding out from clients that they don't take vouchers, the individual labour offices immediately connect with those who work with vouchers, and they immediately try to negotiate so that they can take them there. This means, even after six months of practice, there are no serious errors, nor have there been any serious complaints or serious problems at the employment offices involved. I must say that I am very sorry that some colleagues are using arguments that have nothing to do with this dose. School cafeteria - don't be mad at me, why should they pay a living allowance to the school cafeteria? There's child support. Travel, Rings, Accommodation, this is a contribution to accommodation and a supplement to accommodation. Regardless of the fact that we are still talking about material distress, which is about 30% of the total amount of benefits or benefits, because most of them are really from state social support and there is not a single benefit involved. I must say that I am really sorry that we want to, or that there are proposals that want to cancel the whole thing and put it back in the system that was here before the adoption of the amendment by my colleague Pastuchová, because you are actually destroying all the commitment and efforts of the people at the employment offices after taking up the validity of this adjustment, how they stood up to it, how they were able to reconcile it and how they already have it set up. I don't think it's fair to them either. Buying vouchers. Yeah, we know that, but that was before, but on the other hand, I'm sorry, it's just the clients that's on it. If they can trade or just sell vouchers with less value, yes, but the money will only be missing from those clients again. I don't think the shortage, the fact that they couldn't buy anything, is really big. No matter how we look back, how it worked. You guys listed here, colleagues, as a percentage. I would tell you, I repeat, I've already told the committee, I've said it about the fourth or fifth time, why it wasn't used, or at least: because it's very difficult to prove to those clients that they're taking advantage of the dose. And if the employment office has already agreed to give them for some reason, the suspicion of abuse that they're taking advantage of the dose, it was thrown back on appeal. That is why the labour authorities themselves almost didn't approach it anymore, because the appeal authorities were throwing it down on them. Don't be mad at me, but the consequence or impact for clients we knew were taking advantage of was simply none. I am very sorry that I feel that the agreements that have been made here between the different translators or other colleagues and colleagues in some way before the second reading have fallen, and more or less the system of obligations you really want to eliminate. I would just like to point out that this is really for clients who have been in the employment office for more than six months. I think that's evidence of something. And don't be mad at me, single moms, they're taking parental leave. I just feel like it's better to eliminate everything and the only mechanism, or at least some partial, small, small, effective, just that there's a little bit here and with which no one really has a problem, except some institution, so there's just an attempt to eliminate something. I am curious to see how you will have your views when discussing other strong amendments, if this is the new leadership of the ČSSD, by extension the management of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, because these are essential things that we would like to deal with and where we see some future changes in the system. I wanted to ask you to think about what's really important and not listen to some media outrageous lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-006-999.u13	Thank you for the final word. Since we have had a merged general debate, we will now hold a detailed debate in a separate way, so we will return to the press 89.
