ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-015-039.u1	39. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification The Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the transfer of sentenced persons (Hanoi, 7. 6. 2017) /house print 58/ - first reading The submitted press will be presented by Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-015-039.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me briefly to mention this Government proposal to approve the ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the transfer of sentenced persons. At present, we do not have a bilateral contract with the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in the field of the transfer of sentenced persons, without such a contract it is not possible to carry out the transfer of a sentenced person for the purpose of further execution of the prison sentence imposed on the territory of the other State. The contract was negotiated on the ground plan of the Convention on the Transfer of Convicts of 21. 3. 1983, which was negotiated within the Council of Europe and the Czech Republic is also a party to it. This is the broadest base for this type of international cooperation. The text of the contract also respects the legislation of the Czech Republic in this field. The contract foresaw the possibility of handing over a person sentenced to prison in the territory of a Contracting State who is a citizen of the other Contracting State to the further execution of that sentence to his home State, subject to the recognition and enforcement of the judgment in the territory of the State to which the person should be transferred and also to the consent of the sentenced person of the State of the beneficiary and of the State in whose territory the person was sentenced. It shall apply to cases where, at the time of application, a person is required to carry out at least one more year of imprisonment. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-015-039.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Robert králíček. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-015-039.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty presented is a standard bilateral arrangement for the transfer of sentenced persons, which is based on a functional international model. This is a necessary proposal, as this area of international judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is currently not regulated by any bilateral or multilateral international treaty. Without such a contract, it is not possible to carry out the transfer of sentenced persons between the Czech Republic and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. This Treaty is in accordance with national law, while respecting the legislation of the Czech Republic in this field, as enshrined in Title 4 of Act No. 104/2013 Coll., on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters and International Law. Implementation of the Treaty will not require increased requirements for the state budget. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a contract for discussion to the Foreign Committee. At the same time, the contract was submitted to the Senate, which discusses the relevant proposal as Senate Document No. 229. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-015-039.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I hereby open a general debate. I have no application for a general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I ask Minister Robert Pelikán and rapporteur Robert Králíček if they are interested in final words. They're not interested in final words. We will immediately address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. He doesn't. I'll reengage. Let's wait a minute... I think we can go slow, but we can vote for sure. I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. Initiating vote. Please press the button and raise your hand. Who is against, please raise your hand and press the button. Voting number 136, 143 Members registered, for 126, against no one. The result was accepted. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. That concludes the discussion of this point. The next item on our agenda today is:
