ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-012-011.u1	11. Government bill amending Act No. 121/2000 Coll., on Copyright Law, on Rights Related to Copyright and Amendment of Certain Acts (the Copyright Act), as amended (the House Press 175/ - First Reading) On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Minister of Culture of Ilja Šmíd. Before they do so, I will ask Mr Petr Gazdík, who is the rapporteur for first reading, to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. [[There's still noise in the room.]] I'll ask the House for peace. I know you're pleased, including the Minister of Education, that he passed the bill, but if you want to discuss it further, please in the front room so that the Minister of Culture can state the copyright law in a dignified environment. I'll wait a little longer, Minister. Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-012-011.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me briefly justify the proposal for an amendment to the copyright law. I would like to begin by stressing that the proposed amendment to the Copyright Act is exclusively a implementing regulation that responds to the approval of two new EU regulations - regulations and directives to implement an international treaty to facilitate access to published works to blind people, persons with visual impairment or reading disorders. The so-called Marrakesh Treaty was adopted under the World Intellectual Property Organisation in 2013 and entered into force in 2016. It must be transposed into its contents by 11 October 2018. The Regulation shall become directly applicable in all EU States on 12 October 2018. The aim of this amendment is to improve the availability of copyrighted works in the form of books, periodicals, newspapers, magazines, musical scores and similar documents to persons visually impaired, including blind people and persons with read disorders such as severe dyslexia. To achieve this goal, an existing exception to exclusive copyright and certain rights related to copyright, consisting of the possibility of producing copies of copyrighted works in special formats, appropriately modified formats that allow people with visual impairment, with visual handicap, is added to the possibility of making copies of copyrighted works, as they are perceived by persons without such visual impairment, and the possibility of cross-border exchanges of such formats. The amendment to the Copyright Act therefore introduces, in accordance with that Directive, the cross-border scope of that exemption from copyright, which allows for cross-border movement of format accessible copies, both between EU Member States and outside the EU to and from States Parties to the Marrakesh Treaty. In this context, rules are also laid down for the management of copyrights in such a way as to guarantee the protection of the rights and interests of authors. The proposed legislation will be beneficial in terms of social impact. It will improve the availability of copyrighted works to blind people, persons with other visual impairments and persons with other reading disorders, thereby allowing them to become more involved in cultural and social life and to expand their learning opportunities. It will contribute, among other things, to the easier availability of domestic copyright works in accessible formats for such handicapped compatriots and Czech students abroad and to the availability of such adapted foreign materials to persons with visual impairment in the country. I would also like to add that we call it so called. a small amendment to the copyright law, which we have in the legislative plan for this year. The Ministry of Culture will be preparing a big amendment to the Copyright Act in quotation marks next year, where we will implement an EU regulation on access to authors and access to works on the Internet. This is going to be a really big amendment, where we are assuming a rather larger discussion than in this law. I therefore propose that the Chamber of Deputies release this proposal for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-012-011.u3	I thank the Minister of Culture Ilj Šmíd and now the rapporteur for the first reading will take his word for it, Mr Petr Gazdík. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-012-011.u4	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The minister summed it up very quickly. I'll just try to get a brief summary. The copyright amendment introduces an exception to copyright in case a copy of the work is produced solely for purposes such as conveying it to persons who are weak-sighted, blind or with read disorders. It must be no economic or commercial advantage, or it removes obstacles where people with visual impairment cannot read books, magazines, newspapers, sheet music, etc. and it is necessary to convey them in another way, which will be removed from copyright under this amendment of the law. It also introduces rules on the cross-border movement of such works. The amendment is definitely in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, implementing the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe 2017/15/64 and it also follows, as the Minister has already said, from the Marrakesh Convention, which the EU has concluded, and the Czech Republic signed it in 2014. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-012-011.u5	I thank the rapporteur, and before I open the general debate, I note that Mr Roman Onderka is canceling his apology this afternoon and, on the contrary, Mr Jan Skopeček apologises until the end of today's day. I am now opening a general debate. I'm saying I don't have an application for it, and I'm asking who's applying from the scene. I see no one, and the general debate is over. I ask if there is an interest in the final words, because no proposal, when the debate was not held, to return, was rejected. This is not the case, so we can deal with the motion on the commandment of committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the motion to discuss the Committee on Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will therefore decide in voting number 12 who agrees that this press should be directed to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. We shall decide in vote No. The 12 I started. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 12 of the 141 Members present for 114, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees of the Chamber of Deputies. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees? It's not like that. So I note that this proposal has not been given to other committees, the deadline for discussion will be under the Rules of Procedure Act, that is 60 days, and I thank the Minister of Culture Ilj Šmíd, thank you to the rapporteur and finish this point. The next item will be:
