ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u1	21. Proposal by Members Petr Gazdík, Vít Rakušan, Jan Farský, Věra Kovářová, Jana Krutáková and Petr Pávek on the issue of the Act amending Act No. 130/2000 Coll., on elections to regional councils and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 154/ - first reading We have received the Government's position on this press as House Press 154/1. I prosit that Mr Petr Gazdík present the proposal for the appellants. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. This proposal is nothing new. We dealt with it at the end of the last parliamentary term, but by the end of the term, this proposal fell under the table. This is the result of a long-term discussion with the Ministry of the Interior, because, based on the experience of some representatives, for example in the Central Bohemia Region and other our colleagues, both the Ministry of the Interior and we have come to believe that the Act on elections to regional councils is not in accordance with the Act on elections to municipal councils and does not comply with the Service Act. We are getting to the relic that the civil servant in the appointed post may be a dislodged representative of the municipality but cannot be a dislodged representative of the region. Those laws differ. We have dealt with various arguments, but I think that our efforts should be to reconcile these three laws, that our right should be predictable, and I think that some civil servants can be a great enrichment for regional councils, if they are, of course, in an unreleased function, as prescribed by the Service Act. [[There's still a lot of noise in the hall and very poor audibility!]] Therefore, I beg you very much to send this simple change to the next reading and thus enable us to perform the function of unreleased representative to officials as they can perform the function of unreleased representative in the village. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before we go any further, I really again ask all Members to respect the right of others to listen to what is said here and create a dignified atmosphere. I also ask that the meeting of the government coalition be concluded here in front of me at the benches which prevent the Member from even going to the speaker's desk. If such a situation does not arise, I will interrupt the House of Deputies' meeting. I call on President Chvojka, I call on Mr Volný, I call on the Minister of Finance, who has not responded to my repeated warnings to create the conditions for a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in a normal atmosphere. Thank you. I now ask Mr Jiří Strýček, who is rapporteur for the first reading, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the bill tabled removes from the Act on elections to regional councils the reason for the incompatibility of the function of a member of the regional council consisting in the exercise of office at the Ministry, another central body of the state administration or on a national authority which is occupied by the election, appointment or appointment. The applicants justify an adjustment to the complexity and interpretation of the rules in force concerning the incompatibility of the functions of a member of the regional council. It is contained in the Act on elections to regional councils and in the Service Act. The proposed law addresses the alleged contradiction by simply removing one of the reasons for incompatibility from the Regional Elections Act. The Government has given a disagreeable opinion on this House press, and the Organising Committee has proposed a constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee. Mr President, I would like to join the debate with a proposal to reject this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u5	The moment I open the general debate, I acknowledge your login. This was the opening word for the rapporteur for first reading. I am now opening a general debate. The general debate is attended by the rapporteur, Strýček, to whom I will now give the floor. After that, the Rakušan MP will appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u6	One more time. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I personally disagree with the proposal for this law, and I therefore propose rejecting it at first reading. I do so for the following reasons. The authors of this law wanted to resolve the questions raised after the regional elections in the pre-last year regarding the compatibility of the function of a member of the regional council with the function exercised at the Ministry, another central government body or national government body which, as I mentioned, are occupied by the election, appointment or appointment. But, in my opinion, the solutions offered by the plaintiffs are non-systemic. If there are doubts about the rules on non-compliance of functions, it is not possible to solve them by simply removing one of the reasons for non-compliance from the law. The proposal thus basically extends the possibilities of cumulation of important public functions. If this proposal had been approved, an adjustment to the incompatibility of the regional representative's office with certain positions in the state administration would have been left only to the Civil Service Act. However, this Civil Service Act forbids co-operation only with vacant members of the council and only with persons subject to the regime of the Civil Service Act. The proposal is based on the assumption that there are two legal interpretations of incompatibility. One legal interpretation, which I am therefore a supporter of, is that the legislation contained in the Act on Elections to the Regional Council and the Civil Service Act is compatible and can therefore be interpreted in harmony with each other. The second legal interpretation by the appellants states that the regulation of incompatibility in the service law takes precedence over the regulation in the Law on elections to regional councils, by virtue of the fact that the service law is the norm later. The adoption of the proposed legislation would mean, inter alia, that we would allow new members of the regional council to perform their duties, first of all, persons engaged in the civil service at the service offices of the head of service, which are central administrative offices or authorities with national competence at the office of Deputy Ministers for the management of sections or directors of the section; Second, persons with the post of Deputy Prime Minister or Head of Central Administrative Office or Office with national competence who are not engaged in service. These consequences are, in my view, contrary to the principles on which the public service is based and ultimately would lead to a disproportion in relation to the restrictions maintained for persons operating in other administrative offices, as well as to an increase in politicalisation in the administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u7	Thank you. In addition, a Member of the Rakušan is entered into the debate. [[The noise in the hall is rising again!]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u8	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore, in general, discuss what is possible in the administration, what is not possible, what is possible in the self-government and is not possible. Because self-government, they're municipalities, they're cities. And we simply believe that the regional level is much closer to the municipal level than to the parliamentary level. I would like to point out once again that we do not want to change anything to practice so that senior civil servants cannot, for example, be members of Parliament. That doesn't change anything. However, at this time, I do not know whether we are aware that senior civil servants are members of the councils of towns and municipalities in the Czech Republic, even in some cases they hold posts, for example, of the dislodged mayors of their cities and municipalities. Yes, in this case, I am specifically talking about, for example, Mrs Dana Drábová, who dealt with the problem after the past regional elections. She is the unlearned deputy mayor of Pyšela. [[15.50 hours]] So if we believe that the regional level is closer to the municipal level, which we believe is a logical contradiction in why the regional council should have a different practice than that of the municipal council. We clearly do not understand this legislation. Again, we are only trying to make sure that even these high-ranking civil servants can stand up for unreleased positions in the regional level. Here the colleague, through the President, spoke about the accumulation of important, important functions. Of course, representation within the regional council is also an important function, but it is still an unreleased function and we would certainly not want to change anything about this practice. We're still talking about the loose end. Another thing, paradoxical, in the system. If we're talking about a conflict of interest here, then ministers of the Czech Government, and in many cases it was in history, they could be members of regional councils, and there could logically be a much greater potential conflict of interest than for example. with one of the major officials. I believe that here we have a different legal regulation in two laws, because the service law, as my previous speaker has already been said, simply allows this view and allows the high civil servants to hold these unreleased positions. I understand that there is a majority resistance here against the legal proposal being passed further. I fully respect this, it is a legitimate decision, but then let's open up a more general debate, then let's open up a discussion about whether the senior civil servants should therefore not be members of municipal councils, they should not hold the post of dislodged mayors, because that potential conflict of interest is also present there. And we're here to draw attention to the contradiction. Municipal level, municipal level, including large cities in the Czech Republic, so it is possible there. This is not possible in the case of regional councils. In the case of members of the government, there is no limit to such that e.g. They met in regional councils. We merely point out that the system is set illogically in the Czech Republic, and if we perceive the regional level from the principle of state functioning in the Czech Republic as self-governing, then we do not understand why there should be differences between municipal and regional levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u9	Thank you. Mr Gazdík has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I must turn against the rapporteur's words on unsystematicness. I'm sorry, but it's nonsystemic now. Quite simply. So the minister as head of office may be a regional representative, but his officials must not be regional representatives. The civil servant may be a representative, councillor or local councillor, but may not be a representative of the region. That's how it is now. It's senseless and stupid. In the last parliamentary term, almost all parties across the spectrum signed the law. We're just aligning something into a logical framework. We simply align the law on municipal councils, elections to municipal councils, regions and service law. Nothing more, nothing less. What the rapporteur says about unsystematicness, I apologize if you consider the Minister to be a regional representative, but not his officials, so I do not see it as a system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u11	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? I don't see an application like that. Are you applying for a general debate? With a factual point of view. Yes. Mr Grospič will now speak with a point of fact. I'm sorry, you're right, it's my fault. No, Mr Luzar is second in line. Mr Grospič, as I said, will now speak with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u12	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I would like to respond to that, my fellow Members, because I think we are spinning a little bit in a vicious circle, and we are also getting a little bit closer to the demagogical interpretation of that provision. I have no doubt that the bill is well-intentioned, and I have no doubt that it has its ratio in what happened in the regional elections, when Mrs Drábová ran for the regional council in the Central Bohemia Region, brought about a certain penzion of voters, and then it turned out that she cannot actually exercise the mandate because the law strictly does not allow it, and she must give up the mandate while she is still a representative in her community. However, I think that it appears here that this discrepancy cannot be resolved by this partial amendment, that it is necessary to take into account the law of service and then, of course, all the electoral laws, both the law on elections to municipal councils and the law on elections to regional councils. Because if we were to accept clearly only a simple amendment like this again, we would again commit further inequalities and discrimination against something else. I will give an example of the life of the municipalities, where on many examples according to interpretation, of course, a person who works for the village may be a representative of the municipality, but is not included in the municipal office. So maybe a municipal officer, including, say, a commander or a director of the municipal police. And it certainly isn't right either, because he decides about himself, he decides about the funds that are devoted to this police, and there is a great conflict of interest. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So in this context, I would be leaning towards rejecting this bill, but in order for the government to deal comprehensively with this issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u13	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a factual remark is over. Another factual point, with which Mr Luzar will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really wanted to respond by your means to a fellow Rakušan who said that their proposal concerns only the relaxed, that it is not an unreleased official. He emphasized this three or four times. I would like to point out that the law also knows unreleased officials, members of the board, possibly. Unreleased mayor's functionaries as such, and in other words, it would concern these officials here. That's one plane of thing. Second plane. As a longtime representative of the municipality, I am faced with this, and I know that it has caused problems when, for example, the director of the contribution organization was at the same time a member of the board. Whatever. The problem is that there are 27 of the directors of the contribution organizations, two of them sitting on the board and deciding on the rewards for the rest of them, of course, and their own. And it was manifesting itself. Unfortunately, it was manifesting itself, the animosities and ties that were going on. It was real when investments were allocated for repairs, when they promoted their interests against interests, because they were there, they were making decisions. And these are the factors that appear. I understand that we should have the desire to attract citizens in municipal policy to decision-making, but there is a problem if this municipal policy is really done in that purpose by those citizens who live there, or it is also motivated by that, and I do not want to pretend, motivated by the fact that it is my actually founder, I am an employee of this founder, he decides about me, and therefore by going into politics, I have my back here in this decision-making. So I welcome this proposal, which is here, but not in the form of regions, but on the contrary I would see tightening up the law on municipalities and excluding this complication, which is certainly a complication, from the law on municipalities, as it is done in the Regional Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u15	Thank you. Mr Adamec has entered into the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly what I was afraid of. We're going to open the laws of the county, virtually. electoral laws, and there's gonna be discussions here, different views on the matter. And what I'm saying is that years ago, I had an unprecedented experience so that the school directors, like school directors, couldn't simply perform the function of vacant representatives. Here it was a conflict of interest, then luckily it succeeded through the Constitutional Court, I have a feeling, to lose or overrule here in the House. But it's not, it's a group decision, it's a collective decision, both at the council and at the council. Definitely don't think the school principal has any advantages. On the contrary. He has to work for the village, there are many disadvantages for him. [[16.00 hours]] So I personally perceive the efforts of the petitioners to actually align the electoral law, virtually. on the municipalities and on the regions to make it the same, and it turned out that the problems here may occur during the last regional elections, and those concerned prefer to give up their mandates so that they do not have to go through a lengthy trial, which I think is always very tricky in these cases, and I think the result does not lead to a better interest of our voters in our municipal policy. I ask, what is the difference between the region and the municipality in terms of the activity? It's a government the same as a community. That's what I need to say. [[A group of debaters.]] I see my colleagues down here don't care, but I'll try to continue. We have the performance of the state administration because we have chosen a mixed model of public administration, and of course we have problems that we sometimes solve here in the House, but on the other hand, if opening this law should lead to the fact that... [[There's still a lot of noise in the room.]] I've got plenty of time...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u17	Calm down, please! Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u18	I knew why I didn't take a factual comment or comment because I really wouldn't be able to say that here. So I'm really worried that, of course, the intention of the petitioners is fine, because it's equal, I'd say, in a very similar situation. The problems were here, so to say that there are no problems, so that is closing your eyes to a problem that can be solved, but on the other hand, to say here that the problems in the municipalities are similar, as if they were on the verge, if they were, as Mr Luzar said here, and by your means, I would like to tell him that I repeat again, that is a misunderstood self-government. Who other than the school principal is supposed to be in the village council? Everyone's doing something for the village there. That's just the way it is, but since it's a collective decision-making, I'm not worried about it, and from my own experience and 20 years of practice, I can say that neither of those appointed directors has ever had any advantage of it. It even, when voting some of those rewards, which, by the way, are very ridiculous in these cases, they don't participate in those votes. Logically, because they don't want to be compared to the other colleagues. So if this were to lead to a reverse guard, I'd be hard against it. I support this because, I repeat, we have come, and it was not only Mrs Drábová, to say to ourselves, in our region of Hradec Králové, it was Mrs Dostálová who had the problem today. And it may sound weird from me, but we've lost our high-quality deputy, unfortunately, with this lack of law. So I would ask that you try to rethink it this way, not reject the proposal at first reading, advance it to the next reading, and I would certainly ask you, if it comes to that, so that folk creativity doesn't manifest here, because these laws are very sensitive and good intentions can lead somewhere other than the petitioners or the proposers of the amendments can even imagine. So I support it. Please, we'll send it to the next reading. Let's talk about it, let's start the debate, whether the problem is really solvable in this form or not, but let's definitely try to do something about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u19	Thank you and I now have Mr Leo Luzar's point of order here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u20	Mr President, let me respond by your means to the question that has been raised here - who other than the headmaster? The school teacher! Of course, he could be in the DA's office. But the direct link between the director, who is appointed by the board, is here. So if we ask who we should wish for in the councils of small municipalities, they are the teachers who work in that community and come into contact with these people directly. The director is already in conflict of interest, whether someone's mad at me or not. It's really unclear in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u21	Yes, thank you. Yes, please, Deputy plaintiff Mr Gazdík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u22	I am very sorry, but through the President, Mr Luzar, you have moved it somewhere. Please read the law, it's not there at all! For one thing, there is a completely different conflict of interest with the established organisation and established organisation, which is the case with municipalities and schools. That's one thing. However, even though this once occurred historically, do you remember how the Ministry of the Interior changed very quickly within six months when the directors of the councils were to resign when they changed it, because what calamity did it have in the municipalities and cities? One thing at a time. But there is a complete difference between the founder and the established organization and their conflict of interest in this relationship and what is in this law. The fact that any civil servant of any office and regional council is not really a established and established organization is something completely different! And you also remembered Minister Dostálová here. Madam Secretary Dostálová is a typical example, sorry, of the nonsense of this law, because she had to resign then. She could be sitting in that council today as Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u23	Thank you. And now here I have Mr Adamec's point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would have responded to the word that he should be a teacher. Why not? Sure. But you think the teacher won't lobby for his school if there's more of those schools in that village? Most of them aren't there with the small towns. So these are all hypothetical things. I don't think it's just that the board picks one of those teachers and makes him the director. It doesn't work like that! That's not true, and in practice, it turns out that it doesn't matter at all. If you have other experiences in your region, I haven't been able to influence these things in the last 20 years, because many cases, by the way, even if it affects them, are in the interests of the community, and it's only up to the community, at the council, to the council, what priorities it will set, how it will behave, and one vote will certainly not change that. It's just reality. Let's talk about it in real life, how it works. In my opinion, the one who is on the board of these directors has much more responsibility and more certainty that there will be less. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u25	Thank you and others with a factual remark, Mr Vít Rakušan. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Only through you to Mr. Luzar. Easy and easy. But who knows the reality of the city and municipal council or the smaller community, the more obvious the reality is. I'm the mayor of a medium-sized city, but even there, of course, the reality is present. There's just some conflict and there's a lot of interest in every council, because there's a group of football players, because there's a group of hockey players, because there's a group of hunters, and there's a group of gardeners, and of course, they all vote and vote, of course, many times about subsidies for those interest associations that they're members of. This is simply the reality of municipal policy, and I do not think that with the headmaster or school teacher the conflict is any greater than with such organisations of interest. And as my colleague Adamec said very well, let's not move the problem elsewhere. This concerns regional councils and civil servants, not directors of established organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u27	Thank you. And I have no more factual comment or entered into the general debate, so I will end the general debate. I'm gonna ask if there's any final words about the plaintiff's attorney...? Do you? [[Yes.]] Mr. Gazdík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u28	I only allow myself to be politely asked to release the press into the next reading. He really has a real meaning in practice. We can talk about it professionally in committees, so that there will be no confusion, if in any way you want to modify it, but this thing should be removed. Before the next regional election, it's the best thing we can do right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-010-021.u29	Thank you. I'll ask Mr. Strýček's rapporteur if he's interested...? He's not interested. So we will proceed to the vote on the proposals. Mr Strýček here has tabled a motion to reject the motion. So I have an application for check-out, so I'm checking you out. Please log in with your voting cards again. I'll get back on track. [[16.10 hours]] I think the vote of Members has settled. So I'm going to repeat what we're going to vote on. Mr Strýček suggested that we vote on the rejection of the proposal. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against rejection? It's vote number 38. 146 Members are registered, for 112, against 28. The motion to dismiss has been accepted. That concludes the discussion of this proposal. Now I'd like to read two apologies. From today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 18.50 to the end of the day, Mr Michal Ratiborský apologizes for working reasons. And from today's meeting of the House from 18.15 to the end of the day, Mr Strýček apologizes for working reasons. We will now proceed to discuss the next proposal. This is about
