ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u1	11. Government bill amending Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws (Act on liability insurance from the operation of the vehicle), as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended, and other related laws /house print 51/ - second reading Thank you, Minister Took a seat at the rapporteur's table, thank you, Mrs Ožanová, for staying as rapporteur for the Economic Committee. We can start with a proposal, virtually. Mr Took's opening words to the Minister of Transport. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, the aim of the draft law presented is, in particular, the implementation of European Union law, in particular three directives governing periodic technical inspections of vehicles, road technical checks on commercial vehicles and permissible dimensions and masses of vehicles. The most extensive are the entries into Act No. 56/2001 Coll., which will be the most important change in the inclusion of vehicle emissions measurement as one of the control groups in the periodic technical inspection of the vehicle. At the same time, the draft law envisages that emission measurements can also be carried out at the emission measurement station before the other inspection operations are carried out at the technical inspection station. It shall be up to the vehicle operator to decide whether to carry out a technical inspection only at the technical inspection station or to carry out such inspection at the emission measurement station and subsequently at the technical inspection station. The protocol on the overall result of the technical examination will always be issued by a control technician whose competence will include measurement of emissions. At the same time, however, the existence of a sub-category of control techniques whose authorisation will be limited to the measurement of emissions will be allowed. Furthermore, an adjustment is added to make speedometer rewinding more difficult and the authorisation procedure for emission measurement stations is simplified. In addition, the area of control weighing, adjustments of authorised masses and dimensions of vehicles or partial changes in the modification of technical road checks shall be adjusted. The draft law was discussed in the guarantee economic committee, which adopted e.g. amendments concerning the extension of time limits for periodic technical inspections of motorcycles, the determination of the scope of compulsory equipment of vehicles at the level of the law, the new definition of so-called. rescue alleys, launching changes to the legislation already adopted in the meantime. Announcement of the possibility of processing an unauthorised parking offence in a reserved parking lot by order to specify the possibility of imposing an administrative penalty, warning of an offence in the field of road traffic rules, legislative technical corrections of references, delaying the date of entry into force of the Act. It was also recommended that amendments be approved to calculate the time-consuming performance of each type of technical inspection, as well as those introducing the possibility of using blue-red beacons with components of the integrated rescue system. The Ministry of Transport agrees with these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u3	I thank the Minister of Transport, Dan Ťok, and I remind you that at first reading we ordered the proposal to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 51/1 to 3. I now ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to justify any amendments. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the results of the discussion of the Government Bill amending Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws, as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended, and other related laws, House press 51. The Economic Committee has dealt with this House's press three times. On 14 February 2018 and 28 March 2018, the Committee suspended the discussion of this House's press. It was not until 24 April 2018 after prior consultation in the Transport Sub-Committee that the Economic Committee discussed the draft law and adopted a resolution on it. He recommended to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to discuss and approve House Press 51 as amended by 25 approved amendments. Other amendments have been registered since the committee meeting. I presume that the petitioners of these amendments are themselves duly justified as to why they are submitting them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which there are five applications so far, and the first is Mr Polanský, Mr Kolovratník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u6	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable Members, I would like to make a further statement in the detailed debate on four amendments, which I would like to present briefly now. The first one is the House Press 836, which cancels one part of the amendment, actually the part of the amendment which is not a transpositional character, namely the one that allows the connection of the service and the station STK. [[document]] A large proportion of Members consider it, and this has been shown on the premises of the Economic Committee, where this has been very carefully discussed, that it is appropriate to maintain the separation of the interests of the technical inspection and of the interests related to the production of the sale or repair of vehicles. Personally, I have been thinking for a very long time about whether or not to allow the connection, and I confess that I myself voted in favour of including this point in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Since then, however, we have been dealing very intensively with the issue and we have finally turned to the argument that a relatively functional model for the functioning of this type of delegated state control is not a matter of course. An example can be e.g. the situation with technical inspection stations in Poland. Where there is no deep and systemic problem, let us put evolution ahead of revolution, because otherwise there is a real risk that we will bring about such a problem. The recently introduced obligation of camera recording during the procedure is a thing that is really fresh and has not yet had the opportunity to be fully positive. Let us therefore let the honourable plenary decide in this case. The second press I sign up for is 570. [[document]] The current Act on the Conditions of Operation of Traffic Communications provides that more detailed conditions specifying the uniformity of the carrying out of technical checks at test stations or in charge of testing and measuring emissions in technical inspection stations are laid down in the Transport Bulletin. Since the Journal often contains information on provisions that are contrary to mandatory regulations, e.g. The withdrawal of the decree, this practice is very problematic, may be contrary to the principle of predictability of law and the principle of legal certainty, does not allow administrative proceedings to be effectively conducted, e.g. trace information from the Journal, and many others. We believe that such a serious matter as the methodology for the uniform implementation of technical checks should be dealt with by a proper law, that is, a ministerial decree. I would also like to apply to print 788, which is subject to a change in the conditions under which the license may be withdrawn by the operator of the STK. [[document]] The current amendment introduces the institute of withdrawal of the technical inspection station's operating licence in case of serious breach of obligations. The proposed amendment admits this possibility, but only in the event of repeated serious breach of obligations. We are of the opinion that, in the case of the first finding, a high fine should be imposed and the STK station closed only if a remedy or a correction has not been established. where there is another gross breach of obligations. [[11.30 hours]] The third amendment to which I apply is the House press 787, which regulates the possibilities of police during road inspection, namely provisions allowing the vehicle to be immediately sent to the STK station in case of suspicion of poor technical status of the vehicle. [[fourth]] [[document]] At present the police have three options during the road inspection: to remove the technical licence immediately on the spot, to shorten the validity of the technical check to 30 days, then the car must undergo the STK again, i.e. until then, and the said option to send the vehicle to the STK immediately. We believe that the first two options fully cover the situations that may occur, so we propose the possibility of immediate dispatch to the STK to be released. Moreover, this possibility is not used by the police for practical problems in practice. For both these reasons, we believe that this provision is redundant in the legal order of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u7	Thank you, Mr Polanský. Mr kolovratník now. Mr. Běhounek will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, colleagues. Otherwise, I had a smiling thought of the nice connection that my colleague Polanský spoke, beat me in quotation marks, applied earlier as Vice-Chairman of the Transport Sub-Committee. I am now speaking as chairman of this subcommittee. I am saying this because, even on the subcommittee on transport, we addressed this issue very carefully a few weeks ago. One of the meetings I have convened has been dedicated only to this subject, this issue alone. And it is also fair to say that we did not come to any conclusion at the time. But it was beneficial in the sense that the subcommittee at the time was really very detailed and very professional. What I want to say for myself is, first of all, my overall view of the issue. Of course, most of you won't be in detail. That's the detail we're dealing with on the subcommittee. But a few sentences of commentary certainly deserves it. And in the second part of my speech, I will talk about the three amendments I have prepared, and I believe they will take your attention. On this issue, it must be said very briefly that I am very conservative, very careful with these changes in this case. The Minister knows very well about me. We have been together for a very long time and many times that law No. 56 discussed. My conservativeism is based on the fact that we amended the law a year ago. Even the previous House, it was about this time in the spring, finished, reached the successful end of the last novel. And beyond everything else such a fundamental pillar of the amendment was the change in the overall system of online monitoring or the overall system of issuing technical certificates from technical inspection stations. The change consisted of two moments. Firstly, in the fact that the new regional authorities can no longer allocate licences according to some rather complicated formulas, but they have to compare the current situation twice a year, always at the end of July and then at the beginning of January, in individual administrative districts. the transferred capacity of the State, the state administration in the form of an STK, with a real need in the regions and, depending on whether the real need is close to 80 per cent of the capacity, they may possibly issue another licence. Even in this case, I finally found that there are still a lot of these complex formulas in the decree, so in any case, the system is starting to start to intrude in some way. And the second very fundamental change from last year was about emissions, emission stations, which were some 1,800 for your vision until last year, while those STKs are less than 300. We forced them to join the so-called last amendment in quotation marks. the central information system, so they were online, and their output, their result, the protocol became part of the protocol of one. It is not uninteresting when we were discussing the quality of cheating and how it is cheating that after New Year's, after this January, of the 1,800 emission stations today, according to real data from the system, about a thousand of them are measuring, some 1,000. So almost one half of it has ceased its activities. In fact, they refused to join the online system - clean, conclusive and without the possibility of fraud -. So it also suggests that last year's amendment could have made some contribution in terms of greater quality and reduction of fraud and circumvention. You know the stories of smoke-smoked fumes, of what we're venting into the air. The Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec has also often performed in the media, using such an expressive expression that we are committing collective suicide. These are the reasons why I was skeptical to prepare another novel. Colleagues from the Ministry explained to me, and I understand that the initial and main aim is to implement European law, thus the need to transfer the European directive to Czech law. I understand that, and I agree with that. Anyway, as is customary in our system, once we have something European, we already have ideas one by one that add another and another. One of those ideas or initiatives was precisely the question of economic link, which was mentioned by Vice-President Polanský a little while ago. My opinion is consistent in this, I was and I'm still against it. I think the service to pass orders to himself into his S.T.K., or vice versa, it's quite risky. It's just that if it's not a guy on the STK who's an expert, and it can be most of us, whether it's ladies or gentlemen, when we're amateurs and we come to the STK and someone tells us that we have a pin on the chassis, it's free, it's not working, so we don't have a chance to verify it objectively. And if we get an offer "get it fixed here" from the point of view of consumer protection, this can be a very problematic step. In any case, I understand the argument of the Ministry of Transport in the sense that this is one of the main ideas that they want to move forward in line with Europe's demands. And certainly on the Economic Committee, which I suspect is on 5 June, we will still discuss this very carefully. So much for my overall view and an explanation of the conservative attitude towards any other changes. There I haven't said one thing yet that the new system of the calculation really started, there was delayed efficiency since this year. So we're changing the law here that works for two, about three months, we don't really know what these changes look like in practice and real life right now. That's why I've been, and I'm very restrained. But I believe that my colleagues and expert services at the Ministry have been led by good intentions, and that is why I have also discussed and discussed with them. Now, about my amendments. There's three of them. I will sign up for them in a detailed debate. The first concerns the so-called repeated technical examinations. There we are with colleagues from the Ministry of Transport in agreement and I am glad for that and I want to thank you for that. In particular, the detailed point is that in the original proposal there was such a consideration that if a serious malfunction is detected on emissions and the driver has 30 days to eliminate the defect, then it is sufficient to check only on emissions. I said it was risky in that sense, such an illustration example, a free analogy, that if, during that month, the car in question is modified in any way, for example, by using dark sheets, unauthorized mirrors, unauthorized ornaments and the like, then after a month of emissions, no one will be able to check it out, and the car would be running in a completely disproportionate state for two years until the next check. So I suggested that the repeated examination, the serious defect check, be carried out only at the technical inspection station at the full checkpoint. And this is my amendment, which is in line with the Ministry of Transport. The second amendment goes to Leo Luzar's proposal, which he himself will speak in a little while. I'm sure we'll discuss this with each other if it's meant well and if we're in harmony. Leo Luzar - now I don't want to take his word away from him or overtake him - will present you with an intention in such a way that even in the Moravian-Silesian region, a university can have a research post or a department performing technical checks. In principle, I understand this proposal, although I say after experience from my own home Faculty of Transport of Jan Perner in Pardubice that universities can already have those laboratories and research centres. But I also want to understand my colleague Leo Luzar's suggestions, but at the same time I would like to have insurance that this college is not going to start with its option, and now forgive me for the term, that it will start selling it, that it will just suddenly appear on the market and start doing classic commercial tours at the university's workplace. That is why I have prepared an adjustment for Mr Luzar, supplementing his amendment, and I am sure we will look at it together and discuss it. At the same time, I apologize for telling him all the way through the microphone in front of the diaper, but as usual, it was all at the last minute, and there really wasn't time. So I'm ready for a professional discussion. [[11.40 hours]] And the last, as the Angličan say, last, but not least, is an amendment that is nice, beneficial, and I believe it will be interesting for most drivers and those who support modern technology and especially ecology. It's my proposal to introduce the so-called environmental plates, the plates. So, together with colleagues from the Ministry of Transport, it is not my individual activity, it is necessary to say, together with colleagues from the Ministry, but not only transport, but also the environment, we have prepared the final text of the amendment, which newly, colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased to say, introduces the possibility, as you already know registration marks on request and new registration marks ecological. What's it about? It will start a whole series of possible future steps to support precisely electromobility and clean carbon-free transport. This is in line with the National Clean Mobility Action Plan as well. With this amendment of mine, which I believe will gain your support, we will describe the vehicles, we will allow their owners, whether they are hybrid vehicles, fuel cell vehicles and, above all, probably the most famous electric vehicles, to apply for a license plate, which will be marked in capital letters E and L, to be separated in graphical letters and in colour, so that the person will be seen on the road, he can also proudly sign up for the fact that he has an eco-friendly vehicle. But it's not just about some marketing or somebody else's license plate. It will be about the fact that vehicles so visibly marked in the future will be able to be allowed e.g. riding in reserved lanes, they will be free of the time charges for tolled infrastructure. They will be able to have special parking overlooking the cities as well as allowed access to the centers of those cities, etc., etc. So this is actually the first step that will allow all the futures that I'm talking about so these cars are marked like this. Logically, we will offer drivers this option on a voluntary basis, so it will be up to them whether they want or not to have such a license plate, and logically we will also exempt them from the administrative fee, so they will not have to pay any large money for it, such as at the brand on request. So they can have it for free, so we can motivate them positively. So I believe this point here in the House will be supported. In a detailed debate, I will then sign up for specific numbers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u9	Thank you, Mr Martin Kolovratník. Mr Jiří Běhounek is now in the debate and Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, there is no doubt that overloading our communications with over-the-counter vehicles affects not only motorways and I. class roads, but mainly roads II. and III. classes during roundabouts. The Association of Regions, the Transport Commission, has been very much involved in this and we believe that we should contribute certain steps to preventing overload at the opening of this law. This is, in our view, a global priority and we believe that it should be the original section 38b para. 5, i.e. payment for overloaded vehicle and reimbursement of costs, refund. Then there is the amendment, which I will then sign up to in a detailed debate, technical amendments and issues that specify the obligations of the person who puts the combination together, what police officers should do, and how high-speed and low-speed weighing is done. The material is in the system and I will then sign up for it in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u11	I thank Mr Jiří Běhounka, and before I give the floor to my colleague Luzar, I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 13.30 to the end of the day, Mr Jakub Janda apologizes for working reasons. Mr Jan Kubík also apologizes from 12 to 14 hours for work reasons. And Mr Třešňák from 12 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Now, Mr Leo Luzar, Mr Radek Koten will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I will try briefly to mention my amendments to this law. One historical, i.e. historical, discussion in the Economic Committee, which responded to the needs of my region. The second, which is already after consultation with the Ministry of Transport and concerns the same problem. The first was historical and is based on the fact that there was an emergency situation, at least from my point of view, which I did not know that the existing system for the allocation of STK licences is a system very - if I use the term concreted, I will not be far from the truth. In other words, it does not allow any changes outside the mathematical model, which is somehow set up, and in my opinion at the time of its creation it was a good achievement. I'm afraid it's mine. it does not respond at all to a situation where many transport fleet owners have cars registered in Prague, but vice versa STK and similar matters in their local region. So there is a problem that shows that certain types of STK in the regions are being overpowered, but the vehicle belongs to a register in another region. And from that perspective, they don't match the indicative numbers for converting the mathematical model. Anyway, the situation has arisen because an initiative has emerged. University of Mining and Private Business Entities, which together wanted to create a research centre for autonomous vehicles. Of course autonomous vehicles are a phenomenon, I don't want to burden you with it, which is already on our roads and it is possible to buy autonomous vehicles, which not only park themselves, as you have seen in commercials, the car will drive itself, but are able to brake itself from the obstacle, to warn the driver of something that is happening on the way without him doing any intervention. But the technical standards governing road safety do not reflect this development of technology at all, and only the efficiency of the brakes is constantly controlled, if the steering wheel has no will, if the pins are not smashed, but the autonomous safety system of the vehicle is not controlled electronically. In other words, there is no control of whether the system still meets the parameters for which it was designed and tested at the time of production as part of the procedure to enable road traffic. In other words, there is no testing and testing of the vehicle, if it really stops five meters from the obstacle when the obstacle appears. And the technicians will tell me that sensors that control the distance and measure the distance of the obstacle are getting older, those tolerances can increase over time, traffic, etc. So there's a pretty serious problem opening up here to test these vehicles if they can still do what is promised within the warranty period of the vehicles. Among other things, we came into contact with Hyundai car company in our region, which is even a leader...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u13	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask colleagues who are discussing a subject other than road traffic to do so outside the O.R.! Don't make me name you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u14	... which has become a leader in autonomous vehicles and is preparing for our market the launch of a fully autonomous vehicle, even with a drive not only on electric but also on hydrogen. In the discussion we came across that yes, they give a guarantee, even a seven-year warranty, but we don't know how those cars will work after the warranty. In consultation with the Ministry of Transport, they record the problem, perceive it, but wait for the response of Europe within the technical control system and rely on the station's obligation to be equipped with some access measuring device connected to the vehicle's on-board system to evaluate it. Yeah, it'll evaluate if the sensor says it's okay. But it won't assess whether the sensor is within the tolerance set by the manufacturer, because by aging, of course, it can get completely out of control. In other words, the original idea was to create a test track at the Mining College, even in the nearest vicinity, in areas near it, and to create a test track where it would be possible to test vehicles, but not vehicles delivered by the manufacturer, not vehicles, as they say, technically ready for testing, but vehicles after passing normal operation. In other words, being able to focus on vehicles that undergo absolutely normal operation that could be applied and say yes, for example, the consumption of the vehicle in normal urban traffic on average is so much and so much, which, as you can see today, is very difficult to determine from the table values of the cars whether they actually correspond or not. [[11.50 hours]] I liked the project very much and we came across that even the Ministry of Transport, although taking into account and saying, this project is excellent, we would go in, we like it, is unable to grant an exemption so that such an entity can get a license to operate the STK. You may ask why the operation of the STK. It's got two planes. Of course, if it's a science project and there's a college involved, there's grants and other and other issues involved, there's one catch, and the hook is called applied research. In other words, it's an app. And any such project should be financed or try to self-finance. It should not just be dependent on the resources of the school, subsidies and grants, but it should also produce its own resources. This is the response to my colleague Kolovratník, because of course I am registering his amendment, and that is why there is also the commercial part, because from that commercial part the project is actually partly self-financed. This means that he will have this for the university as well as attractive, because from the means that he will receive from the commercial service for motorists, of course he will be able to finance the part of science and research, so that it is not strictly based on sponsorship, donation and similar matters, possibly. the grant system. That was the idea of that approach in the same plane. On the other hand, the amendment states that such a technical college could be the one providing accreditation. In other words, now we have a private entity that is perhaps the only or licensed to provide so-called. A round stamp, short of that, in other words, instructs the technician to carry out the tour, etc., and I would like the technical school to do it, so that the graduates of the technical school, such as transport, have the opportunity to work in these facilities automatically after the completion of their studies, have a round stamp at a certain level, and could be those who are accredited to this work, and do not have to pay for the heavy tens of thousands, as they are said, to provide this. Is this a certain business area that exists here, and why would a university in the context of providing this education, as well as further follow-up education not only for those graduates, not be able to raise these funds and participate in increasing the technical level of our citizens? So this project has been put in place. There was no agreement on the proposal on the Economic Committee. There were arguments. One of the arguments I understood and heard was that it was very closely directed to one particular case, such as the cooperation between the University of Mining or Technical University with the subject, and when another one appeared at another university, so that it would have to be partially searched again, possibly. I'm sure it's just narrowly directed. And so that the Ministry would not be given as a negative view that it was trying to sew something with a hot needle, so the Ministry and I agreed that the Ministry would prepare a proposal that is more general. So it leaves out all the pointed things on a specific matter, but it gives the proposal in general when it comes to universities. I welcome the Ministry's proposal. It is entered as my second amendment and, of course, I expect a discussion that will take place on the Economic Committee when we discuss this matter. I therefore hope that I have also answered my colleague why there is a commercial in this proposal and why I consider it important, because I think that universities should also have the resources from the work they do for citizens. On the other hand, I think that they can also establish a certain guarantee of carrying out these inspections, because it turns out, and the experience during the discussion in the Economic Committee was quite serious from the practical functioning of various technical inspection stations, we ran into those in heaven calling for disorders that sometimes happen, and now cutting off filters and various other things that have been done, this station could have, let's say, a level of certification or a level of service very high. In detail, I will apply to these two amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u15	I thank Mr Luzar. Now, Mr Radek Koten, another Mr Petrtýl will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u16	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to justify here the amendment to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate under number 789. This amendment responds to a safety project called color modification of a fire truck. This project was implemented by the General Directorate of the Fire Rescue Service of the Czech Republic in order to explore the possibilities of increasing the safety of fire protection units and of other road users, especially during the ride and during the intervention. One of the important results of the project was that the visibility of the light part of the special warning device is essential in a wide range of transport situations for safe priority driving. At the same time, it was confirmed that the blue light source supplemented by the red light significantly improves the visibility of the vehicle with the right of priority driving under certain light and climate conditions. Based on the knowledge gained in the project, it can be concluded that the introduction of a red-blue colour combination of the light part of the special warning device will significantly improve its visibility, in particular for three reasons. Changes in eye physiology, when the daily perception happens by means of cones and night perception by means of sticks, results in a change in the sensitivity of the eye to certain colors, their wavelength, according to different light conditions during the day. The red colour is better perceived during the dark and at dawn. Red colour is more suitable under worse climate conditions, such as snowfall, fog or heavy rain, etc. A certain percentage of people, i.e. drivers, are to some extent colorblind, so they can often perceive the blue color in a limited way. In the context of the proposed amendment, it can be noted that the Road Traffic Convention adopted in Vienna in 1968 does not in any way prevent the introduction of another colour of the light part of the special warning device. The blue-red colour combination of the light part of the special warning device is introduced into the legal environment for example in the Slovak Republic and has been used by Slovak police for many years. Similarly, this colour combination is used by fire protection units in the Republic of Poland for the leading vehicle in the motor vehicle column. The change in colour should be smooth. The proposal does not limit the use of the blue colour so far, and it can therefore be concluded that the proposal does not involve a requirement to increase funds. The design of the blue and red colours is proposed for the basic components of the integrated rescue system, hereinafter referred to as IZS, in order to distinguish them from other road users. At the same time, the tactical aspect of the decision-making process of the IZS intervention commander is monitored in concentrating forces and resources of the IZS essential components for the recovery of an emergency. For example, in 2017, 122 496 interaction interventions of IZS components were carried out and 82,17 percent of these synergies are recorded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u17	I thank Mr Radek Koten, and before I give the floor to Mr Petrtýl, I note that there has been an apology from the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies from 12 a.m. to the end of today's day from Mr Rostislav Vyzula. I will now give the floor to Mr Petrtýl, who is so far the last one entered into the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u18	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, I would like to mention one point on this issue, and that is whether they should carry out technical checks on brand service or not. I think that the most important point and our efforts should be, as it is in other fields, as much satisfaction as possible for our customers, in this case motorists, when almost all of us are motorists. When I tell you what's better, or when we ask ourselves a question - come to the service, have my car ready for technical inspection and then arrive at the technical inspection station, where I will stand a few hours queue, and then I will either leave with confirmation succeeded or failed from the technical inspection station. The second option is, as it is, for example, in the most motorised country in Europe in Germany, that these checks can be carried out by brand service. That means you will arrive with your car on order to so-called. your service, when they often provide you with a car for temporary use, and then you arrive in the afternoon for a repaired car, which also has technical control. [[12.00 hours]] It has been pointed out that these services could record work, so-called, and that they could include some of the work in order, of course, to benefit as much as possible. I think that at present, when everything is monitored, when everything is actually controlled. For example, Škoda, Škoda automaker, appreciates very, very much and very much the satisfaction of customers. Those customers are asked if they were satisfied in the service, if they think something dishonest was played on them or done. So I'm convinced that these services wouldn't dare, because any finding, any confusion or issue would mean some kind of penalty for the service, and in the worst case, if these problems were big and serious, it would also mean a loss of license, which is liquid for the service. So I'm convinced that I'm afraid that they might be able to record the service for themselves -- I think that's odd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u19	Thank you, Mr Petrtýl. Mr Martin Kolovratník's factual comment now. We are still in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u20	The technical note is the technical specification of my colleague Petrtýl, and in good terms. It's not a contradiction at all. I agree with what he said. It's just a really technical specification for Germany. He the system in Germany is different in the sense that it is possible to carry out inspections in a number of places including just car service. But the system is different because Germany has so-called state testing techniques, authorized individuals independent. Perhaps we can compare this freely to our system of commissioners in driving schools. That's how the techs in Germany come to those places. Well, it's just for those of you who care, a little clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u21	Thank you for your respect for the factual point. And I'm asking who's applying from the scene. If I do not see anyone, I can end the general debate. I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words after the general debate. Mr Minister, rapporteur? It's not like that. I can therefore open the debate in detail because there has been no proposal that the committee's press be returned to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation. In a detailed debate, Mr Martin Kupka is the first Member to whom I give the floor, and a colleague Koten will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u22	Hello, Mr President, fellow Members of the Government. I would take the liberty of reading the amendment that is being conducted in the system under number 541. This is a simple amendment, but it can bring important relief to the owners of vehicles. I think that maybe some of us have also experienced that we have learned about the end of the technical inspection of the vehicle only from police officers who performed technical or technical. random inspection of the vehicle at stop. So this is a solution that would allow anyone who is also the owner of the vehicle and has access to the data box to inform the State 60 days in advance that he and his vehicle should undergo a technical examination of the vehicle again. This should not mean any significant financial requirements for the state, because the data are in the information systems, but it would be a useful service. In addition, there is an equivalent for data mailbox holders. The fact is, they're getting two months ahead of schedule of information about their IDs ending. This small amendment would also provide useful service for vehicle owners. For those with a data box, they would automatically get that information into their data boxes. Of course, natural persons with a data box are relatively few. But all legal entities are required to have a data box. So, of course, it is also an important service for an important part of the Czech public. I will be glad if you raise your hand at third reading for the amendment, because it is one of the specific things that could make life easier for people. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u23	Thank you, Mr Martin Kupek. Now, Mr Radek Koten, Mr Polanský will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u24	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to sign up for Amendment 789 in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u25	I thank Mr Radek Koten. Now, Mr Polanský, Mr Kolovratník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u26	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for amendments marked as House Press 570, 787, 788 and 836. [[document]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u27	Okay, thank you. Now, Mr Kolovratník, Mr Běhounek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u28	Well, thank you, too. And I am of the opinion that Mr Kolovratník is reporting to the amendments under the numbers of the Houses of Documents 809, 810 and 844.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Běhounek, Mr Leo Luzar will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u30	As I have announced in the general debate, I am signing up for the amendment, which is listed in the system as House document 792.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u31	Thank you. Now, Mr Leo Luzar, in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u32	Thank you for the floor. I am signing up for the amendments under number 771 and 851. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-005-011.u33	Thank you. This was the last written entry into the debate. I'm asking if anyone is applying for a detailed debate from the point of view. I don't see anybody, and I'm ending the debate in detail. There was no motion to vote at second reading. I am asking about the final words of the Minister, the rapporteur. It's not like that. I therefore end the second reading of this proposal, paragraph No. 11. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. According to the approved agenda, we will now discuss the item
