ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u1	62. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations Should this item be discussed before 11 o'clock, we would continue further points according to the approved agenda. This is based on the valid resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 1342, which was approved during the fourth term of office, with the possibility of leaving Members and Members to amend the approved agenda of the 7th meeting. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted no later than 11 o'clock and their draw will take place at 11.30 p.m. I have one more apology here. He apologizes from today's meeting between 9 and 10.30 Mr. Vít Kaňkovský. There. Mr. Kubíček volunteered... Can I give him my word? No. But we don't have an open... [[Interview with the MP off the microphone.]] And in what role only? But now there's an interpellation. On the agenda of the 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, three responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no reply to the debate and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. And now we will proceed to the answer to the written interpelation. Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová replied to Mr Vojtěch Munzar's interpelation on the scope of the real estate acquisition tax. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 55. I am now opening the debate. Yes, Mr. MP. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Madam Secretary, I have asked for this interview to be placed on the agenda because I have considered the Minister's reply, respectively. The Ministry of Finance is very inadequate. First, let me introduce you to what's really going on. It is about that state, respectively. Financial authorities, Financial Administration, Ministry of Finance collected tax on the acquisition of real estate not only from the simple price of real estate but also from VAT. Several lawsuits have been brought. I was inspired by the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court in the dispute of Střelská Hoštice and the Board of Appeal, where the Supreme Administrative Court de facto decided that the current practice of the Ministry of Finance and Financial Administration is not correct, that taxes should not be levied on real estate acquisition and VAT, but only on simple prices. I find it incredible that the Minister's reply reads the following sentence: "The Supreme Administrative Court has decided in particular in favour of the plaintiff, the taxpayer, but it does not yet automatically justify the conclusion of an area of lawlessness until then of decisions on the determination of the property acquisition tax in the way that the Financial Administration has stopped." I have translated this sentence so that the Supreme Administrative Court has decided that the Ministry of Finance is not doing it right, but the Minister has told me that they are doing it right, but they are still changing their practice and citizens can ask back for... respectively. submit an additional tax return and apply for a refund. [[9.10 hours]] I was interested in the question of how many cases this is and what the total calculation of such an unjustified tax is, that is, how much will it cost to roughly return in these proceedings. The answer, if I may paraphrase it, was: We do not know, because we would have to read the purchase contracts during tax proceedings. - But Madam Secretary, you have them, the purchase contracts, you demand them from the taxpayers as part of a tax return on the acquisition of property. I also find it incredible that the Ministry has not answered the question of what is the preliminary estimate of the tax so collected. And I find it incredible that the Treasury hasn't done its own reverse control and calculation of the impact of this misstep. I find it hard to believe that a blacksmith's mare walks barefoot, so I want to repeat my question about the number of cases involved and what total funds the collected VAT tax on the acquisition of real estate is, and how much does the Ministry expect to return to taxpayers? I was particularly interested in whether the Ministry of Finance and the General Financial Office would in any way actively inform the damaged taxpayers to apply for a refund. That was the biggest point of my interpelation because I wanted the Treasury to do a strong education so that people would know about it and could file an additional tax return and ask for that money back. However, the answer was that the GFŘ had issued a press release and that the Financial Administration had informed on its website. And your answer, Madam Secretary, was that it's enough, which means that it's enough, and that's when every day a receipt ad comes out of the radio. In this case, therefore, it is probably not enough, so we will promote the receipt via radios, advertisements and the fact that the Ministry has made a mistake and informed citizens that they can ask for it only needs to be placed on the website of the Financial Administration. How many times do citizens go to this site? So I would like to add to my question, which I asked in the interview, why it is therefore more important to inform taxpayers about the receipt lottery through paid ads than the possibility for taxpayers to apply for the refund of the tax unduly collected. It is not enough for me to answer in your written reply to my interpelation that it is the duty of the taxpayer to submit a new tax return, with the right to wish the vigilant, that is, that we will collect the tax illegally, but beware, shh!, we will not tell anyone much, so that people do not want to return it. By the way, this sentence is a painting of the recent quite arrogant approach of the Financial Administration to citizens, and I am very sorry, Madam Secretary. Is this how you're supposed to act, Madam Secretary? Will he actively inform citizens through other communication media, or not? I think the state is supposed to be a citizen's service and paid for by citizens. Therefore, if he makes a mistake, he should inform accordingly. I just don't want to accept the fact that the Ministry of Finance didn't do the basic service for citizens here and, for example, doesn't inform, virtually. It does nothing to actively inform citizens, for example, as through a call for payment of property tax. Everyone gets bills, everybody gets letters. This would be an elegant way to inform citizens that they can file an additional tax return and ask for a refund of this tax. I must say that the Ministry's procedure rather reminds me of a fairy tale There's no jokes about hell - it's not gonna come back. I'd like to conclude my opening speech on this interpellation. I would ask, Madam Secretary, if you would answer me. My point is not even to pry the Ministry for having previously made a false procedure regarding the collection of property acquisition tax, but it really bothers me that you do not inform citizens that they can file an additional tax return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u3	I thank Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Madam Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová has the floor. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, hello, Mr. Munzar. I'm gonna start with the question, "Didn't you read my answer?" Or you read it very superficially, or you just don't understand it. So let me set them straight. I'm not gonna read my answer, it's pointless, because you all have it at your disposal, so I'm just gonna stick to the facts as those things were. The legal regulation you are talking about was implemented by the Senate's legal measure - that was the time when the Senate had to take office - number 340/2013 Coll., on the real estate tax - let me continue to apply only the term of the legal measure. Charger pursuant to Section 2 of this statutory measure as amended effective until 31. 10. In the case of acquisition by purchase or exchange, the tax payer shall be the transferor of ownership of the immovable property, unless the transferor agrees with the acquirer that the payer is the acquirer. That was the adjustment. At the time, we proposed the Ministry of Finance to be the acquirer, as it is now, but there was simply the possibility of an agreement. It was making incredible problems in practice. The fee pursuant to Section 2 of the statutory measure, as amended from 1. 11. 2016 is the acquirer, as I said now. For the purposes of the real estate acquisition tax, the price agreed pursuant to Section 13 of the statutory measure shall be the remuneration for the acquisition of the property right to the immovable property. The reasoned report on this section 13 - I would like to quote - clearly states: The agreed price is the total price, including value added tax. Payment pursuant to § 4 para. 1 - Excuse me, President Stanjur, I will quote the paragraphs again, but this time it really is not possible - a payment means the amount in money or the value of non-cash transactions to be or to be provided for accepted transactions. So many quotes from the law then. And now for the Supreme Administrative Court's judgments and their conclusions. First, judgment number 4 Afs 88/2017 - 35 of 28. 6. 2017, i.e. we're actually talking about last year's time, then the verdict - I'd like to add - n.e.c. 7 Afs 301/2016 - 70 of 22. 8. 2017. The object of the assessment was that the taxpayer was the transferor and the question whether or not VAT was part of the real estate acquisition tax base determined by the price agreed. The conclusion of the Supreme Administrative Court was that both interpretations are possible - I quote from the judgment. Application of the principle in dubio mitius and therefore interpretation in favour of the taxpayer. Conclusion of the Supreme Administrative Court: VAT is not part of the agreed price. So the Supreme Administrative Court admitted both, but he said that there must be doubts in favour of the taxpayer, so he said that he was not a part of it. Of course, on that particular matter, he immediately undertook the Financial Administration to do so. It was the first sentence of its kind and the Financial Administration - and I know that the Ministry of Finance, I was already a deputy at the time, so we consulted very actively, we were at the meeting at the Supreme Administrative Court, because the judgment was dealt only - and the subsequent one, too, I was there, so I know what I'm talking about - in a factual and practical way the position of the transferor, not the acquirer. And the Financial Administration solves the problems in relation to both the transferors and the acquirers, so we needed to clarify, respectively. The Financial Administration, however, cooperated with the Ministry of Finance's department of affairs because it is a fundamental change in administrative practice, whether to stand up to these things as well as the acquirer. That is why there was a meeting at the Supreme Administrative Court, where, of course, the Supreme Administrative Court could not instruct us methodically in some way, because it is an independent court, but it was just a very factual debate and it helped us very much. [[9.20 hours]] Procedure Financial administration following the Supreme Administrative Court's judgments must be assessed in the light of the so-called "Supreme Administrative Court'. the temporal effects which have the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court. This means that, pending the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Financial Administration procedure is legitimate. The decision issued shows the presumption of correctness. That's standard procedure. That's the essence of temporal effects. The Supreme Administrative Court spoke of temporal effects in a number of its decisions. However, since the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, i.e. since the date I quoted a moment ago, in 2017, immediate action has been taken to take account of the conclusions of the Supreme Administrative Court. On 1 September 2017, the Financial Administration issued organisational measures where it consolidated the procedure of the financial authorities in cases where the payer is the transferor and the agreed price included VAT. This means that she instructed all the financial authorities in the country to proceed as follows. Where the tax proceedings were not terminated, take immediate account of the Court's conclusions, even though the decision at that time was only one and mostly awaits a constant case-law of the administrative courts. Secondly, the tax proceedings where it was terminated allow for the submission of additional tax returns, and thus deal with the overpayment under the tax rules. So return it, or use it for underpayments, which is a legitimate procedure. For temporal effects, it's way beyond that, the possibility of filing an additional tax return. Nevertheless, the Financial Administration proceeded to do so. On 5 September 2017, a first press release was issued, where it was stressed that this procedure was valid only in cases where the transferor was the taxpayer and information was provided on the analysis of cases where the payer is the acquirer because the Supreme Administrative Court did not deal with this situation and did not deal with it either in the first case or in the second case. However, following discussions which were very intensely conducted and consultations on 24 November 2017, a second press release was issued and it was decided not to wait for another Supreme Administrative Court judgment to deal with the taxpayer as the acquirer, but also for cases where the taxpayer is the acquirer. So basically for everyone. It was accompanied by detailed information that the Financial Administration would accept the price agreed without VAT in cases where the taxpayer is both the transferor and the acquirer. Of course, everything was posted on the Financial Administration website, including all the questions and answers that came from taxpayers. I am unable to answer, Mr Munzar, how many cases are involved. At this point in time, the financial administration has about 900,000 contracts and is not monitored automatically. It was never in demand because it wasn't necessary. This means that this information has been made. It's common practice. All the financial authorities have posted it on their website, on the official records. Dozens of questions have been answered, and the information on the taxpayers is. Compared with the receipt lottery is indeed a comparison of pears and apples, because the receipt lottery is a project where funds for certain PR activities are defined, which, of course, cannot be spent by the Financial Administration in accordance with applicable regulations and the Public Procurement Act and cannot normally be done. This means that she has chosen the procedure of publication, which she chooses for all other things and matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u5	Thank you, Minister. And we're in the debate. Yes, we have Mr Vojtěch Munzar on file. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u6	Madam Secretary, I can assure you that I have read your answer very carefully. I'm not sure you've been listening to all the things I've been asking about. But that's okay. We're not gonna argue about it here. De facto, what you said here very sophisticatedly, very professionally, so you only confirmed my words. You've changed your practice on the basis of the Supreme Administrative Court's decision. You said yourself that you consulted the Supreme Administrative Court or that your staff consulted the Supreme Administrative Court and the change regarding the acquirer, and changed the organizational and methodological instructions to individual financial authorities. I have reports from the citizens that not all the financial offices have been posted. But what I really want is for the state to be very decent to its citizens and to inform them accordingly. Because you know what happens. If you as a citizen submit, say, an inaccurate application for property acquisition tax, a tax return, you will immediately receive a fine from the tax office, unless it is resolved on the spot, and I think that if the State decides to change practice on the basis of the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, it should inform its citizens accordingly and unambiguously. I think you have the contracts. Yes. You told me in writing that you had 900,000 cases during the final period. But you also replied that it would be necessary to read the contracts. And you have the contracts. You're asking for those taxpayers. And I think the Treasury isn't just the tax collector, but it's supposed to be serving citizens in this country. So one of the duties of the financial authorities when he has a contract in his tax returns is to read them, and a clear management approach to the state budget is to make a preliminary calculation of such cases. Just say, "We don't know, we've changed it, and we don't know how much it's gonna cost us, how much it's gonna impact on the state budget," that seems inappropriate to me. And I will repeat my question, virtually. the opinion that putting it on the Financial Administration website is insufficient to inform citizens. I ask again why you may not have used the letters in which you call for the real estate tax to be paid in order for a sentence to appear there with a reference to the press release. That would be a really elegant way. But you'd have to actively let the citizens know. I find this activity by the Ministry of Finance insufficient, and it is confirmed in your answer, with the right to wish the watchful. You want the citizens to be vigilant, and you don't give them enough service yourself. I'm very sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u7	I thank Mr Munzar. I have been told by the Minister that he will no longer respond, so if no one else in the House of Deputies is reporting, I am ending the debate, and I am now asking Mr Vojtěch Munzar, as suggested by the House of Deputies' resolution on this answer. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it. But now let me read some more - I'm sorry, I've had them piled up here. Mr. Kováčik has the replacement card number 4. And I have apologies. Mr Antonín Staněk for working reasons from 10.00 to 12.00. Mr Radek Koten for a period of 9.00 to 10.00 hours due to negotiations on the Security Committee. Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch from the meeting from 11.30 to 13.00 on account of urgent work issues and Mr David Kasal for health reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u8	I would like to ask you, fellow Members, to take a disagreeable opinion with the response to the interpelation in accordance with Section 112 of the Rules of Procedure, precisely because it does not appear to me that the Ministry of Finance is proceeding properly in informing citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u9	We will therefore vote on the proposal. Mr Vojtěch Munzar proposes a disagreeable position with the Minister's reply. Let's take a vote. I don't even see a checkout application. I don't think we even have to do this. We will take the vote. Who's in favour of disagreeing? Initiating vote now. Press the button and raise your hand. Please, whoever agrees to disagree, press the button and press the hand. I'm sorry. Who disagrees with the dissenting answer? Voting number 35, 103 Members registered, for 23, against 29, abstains from 51. It was denied. Please. Are you reporting? No. Thank you and we'll continue. Otherwise, it's not here in case of a disagreement. We've got another interpellation. Minister of Transport Dan Ťok replied to Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's interpelation on construction of I/11 Prolongená Rudná, the border of the district of Opava - inclusion in the TEN-T network and its inclusion in the list of priority transport buildings according to Government Regulation No. 283/2016 Coll. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 100. So now I'm opening up a debate. The Minister is not present and I am giving the floor to Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u10	Thank you for the floor. So I would first stop at what you said, Mr Vice-President, at the beginning of today's meeting - that if written interpelations are exhausted, the meetings will continue in a proper programme, with the possibility of proposing changes to the programme. But in order to make sense for the opposition to have room for interpelation, it can't be that the interpelation ends because the minister is absent, which is the case. I have two interpelations. Honestly, the minister told me he was going to apologize on Tuesday. I accepted the apology, said I understood that in such a case, I would propose a suspension of these intercessions until the next written interventions. Minister Ťok has agreed to this. I am prepared to do this, but not that the meeting will start at 9.31, because then the government will have the opportunity at any time to hide the hours for interpelation by not having ministers and, in fact, the opposition to the chance to interpelate and the important issues that I want to mention - I need to mention the first interpellation, which should be given special attention to all Members from the Moravian-Silesian Region and from the Prague constituency, because the problem is similar. And if there's only one side of this debate, that means an interpelling MP, and there's no minister here who's really properly excused, I'm not questioning it, so there's no point. But if the majority insists that we discuss more points, then I'll just discuss and I'll talk to you here, I'll call on the minister to answer me, and we'll wait for a written interview. This does not seem dignified or appropriate to me, especially after we have calmly agreed with the Minister how we are going to do with these interventions, because they are not political in nature, but factual and professional. But before we decide whether or not to go further, I would like to ask the House's leadership to tell all the ministers and ministries that are preparing answers to written interpelations that written interpelations and answers receive the number of the House's press. So they're all exposed on the Internet. [[During the speech, it shall show the written material to the plenary.]] The language of the Chamber of Deputies is Czech. We can say that I will send the Members letters in the original English. I don't have a problem with that. But if this becomes the House's press and a citizen who doesn't speak English wants to read it, he won't actually know what's in the letters of the former Prime Minister to the head of the European Commission and back. [[Still during the speech shows in the left hand plates with documents.]] I think that it should be done, the Czech translation, not for Members, or not only for Members, but especially for those who study the House press, and they are interested in, for example, the issue of road construction. So I don't want to do it as an opposition MP. I would ask the House's leadership to make such a general request to all the ministries that are preparing the documents. I understand that it is not the Minister's responsibility to check that the Czech translation is also included. Well, that's more like a comment. Now, we have two options. I am prepared to propose the interruption of both intercessions with the fact that we will address them when Minister Ťok is present, as I agreed with him, but only if we continue the meeting at 11 o'clock. If not, I will start discussing, and it is at least for an hour, the Rudná, because it is a big problem that concerns not only our region of Moravian-Silesian but also Prague, the inner city nodes, it has a link to TEN-T, the possibilities of European subsidies and so on. And the answer shows that the Ministry of Transport is not using the possibilities it has in the difficult European regulations, and that it is actually costing these two particular electoral regions the opportunity to draw European money on actions that they are not yet drawing on. Well, maybe I'll just give you a brief tour of the 100 interview. [[by printing]] The previous government has passed a new EIA law in the Chamber of Deputies - now I do not want to fully evaluate the process, and as it was wrong - which caused hundreds of buildings to be delayed due to the need to repeat the EIA's management. The government came up with a partial solution with the fact that it proposed ten key buildings, and we adopted an extraordinary amendment, even in accordance with Section 90, and at the time we were conducting political negotiations on this amendment, the construction of extended Rudná was among the ten priority buildings. The law was in general form, there was an annex that the government could issue a government regulation that defines the buildings that can then use this special EIA regime where there would be no such great delay. We were assured at those political negotiations - because we suspected, we who were engaged in this, that there might be a problem with the extended Rudna, whether this also applies to the extended Rudna - we were assured that yes, that this is being communicated with the European Commission. Unfortunately, it didn't. The government issued a regulation that had nine buildings, stating that it was afraid that the tenth building would threaten the nine buildings. I understand this measure, or I understand it, and I asked the Minister for Transport and the Minister for the Environment to adopt a second government regulation, because it can, the law allows it, which would contain only one construction. So if it turns out that there was a problem in Brussels, then the second government order would be threatened, and one single building, and the nine of them wouldn't have it. When we took the detailed work and looked into how the TEN-T network was actually defined, we found that the institute was used there, apart from the definition of the individual moves, so it used an institute called urban nodes. And in the Czech Republic there is a town node Prague or city node Ostrava. One of the parameters that is defined is the population, and the way we in the Moravian-Silesian region are such a concentrated agglomeration, so we meet it. And here's the advantage, that within the city node, there can be other constructions of transport that follow up on the backbone network of those motorways we all know, and therefore, even then, European money can be used for these projects. For me, unknown reasons. The Ministry of Transport has not dealt with the town node of Ostrava, but also the city node of Prague. It means that, in fact, all communications that could follow the Prague Circuit could be co-financed by European money under certain circumstances, which would be a relief for Czech taxpayers, the budget of the SFDI or the state budget. I was also prepared to have a debate about this with the Minister, whose aim is to get the Ministry of Transport to try to use this institute to define the two city nodes and to try to use European money within the two agglomerations and those two city nodes, possibly the special law that accelerates the EIA for these buildings. I know the argument that will sound to those who are engaged in the extended Red and Eleven is that the EIA will not begin the construction. That's right. I'm not saying it's true either. However, we could have one step behind us. Unfortunately, today is March - and we passed the law in June 2016 with the fact that the constructions, at least the EIA, will speed up the constructions. But in three months, we'll have a two-year anniversary of the adoption of the law, and I'm not sure it'll have a valid EIA after two years. And according to our case, it's an untapped opportunity, but it's still not a completely missed opportunity. Because if it is defined by the Ministry of Transport, it will defend the constructions within Prague and the constructions actually within the Moravian-Silesian Region, which have some connection to the basic backbone network TEN-T, can be used both by the accelerated management of the EIA and European money. And since the Minister is not present, I, Mr Vice-President, would formally propose that we interrupt the consultation after my brief introductory words on paragraph 100 into the presence of the Minister. [[printing]] He, too, with the proposal, I can tell, you can verify it, he agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u11	Thank you. So we have a motion to interrupt the interpellation until the Minister arrives. This proposal shall be put to the vote. So in that case, I would -- we don't have an application for a check-out, nothing -- so I'd like to vote on your proposal. We're voting on whether to interrupt the interpellation until the Minister's arrival. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Vote number 36. Registered 110 Members, for 100, stays 10. Your proposal is accepted. I suppose because you have an interpelation of two, it also applies to the second interpelation. Okay, so I'm expecting you and the other interpellation, if I understand this correctly, so I'm going to open it, but you're going to propose it again. Thank you, and I'm opening the second interpellation. Otherwise, I see your remark, which you said, and we've been discussing it since yesterday from the beginning, so after that, I would have called the board, or the chair of the MPs, to discuss what to do next, and I see your objection, so that we... You've already made a deal, so then you'll keep me informed of the deal. I'm opening another interpellation. Minister of Transport Dan Ťok responded to Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's interpellation on the current state of preparation and current state of the announced tender for the processing of feasibility studies on high-speed VRT lines in the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as House press number 110. I am opening the debate and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura has the floor again. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. We'll take it faster this time. I'll keep the opening word for the next hearing. I would like to propose, in a procedural manner, that we interrupt the discussion of this interpellation into the presence of the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u13	So we have a motion to interrupt the questioning to the minister's presence, so we're going to vote. Who is in favour - I am taking the vote - raise your hand and press the button. If you're against it, raise your hand and press the button. Voting number 37, registered by 110 Members, for 96, against zero, remaining 14. It was accepted. Well, I'd like to do a procedure here. Well, then, my fellow Members, my fellow Members... [[Consulting off the microphone.]] We should therefore now address further points according to the approved agenda and this afternoon we should address paragraph 63, which is oral questioning. I have received proposals here on the basis of the agreement of Members' Club Chairs that we would continue with the next items under the approved agenda at 11.00. So by 11:00 p.m. - and that's where you'd be reading your motion to change the agenda - I'd be interrupting the House meeting by 11:00 p.m., and we'll continue at 11:00 p.m. And I would, I'm sorry, interrupt, but two more apologies. Mr. Andrej Babiš's apologies from the next meeting from 9.00 to 14.00 for working reasons, the Prime Minister will already be present at the parliamentary interviews, I would like to stress this, and an apology from the meeting on 1st. 3. to 2. 3. due to illness - Mrs Lenka Kozlová. I'm interrupting until 11:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u14	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. We should now address further points according to the approved agenda of the meeting and, of course, this afternoon, because it is Thursday, we have oral intervention. But according to the Rules of Procedure and our resolutions, we have a moment to deal with whether or not we want to make a move. Yes, this is my colleague Kubíček reporting. [[Noise and restlessness in the hall.]] Mr. Ambassador, just a little while longer, I will try to calm you down so that we can understand a proposal that, if you put it forward, we will vote on it. I ask my colleagues and my colleague to bring the discussions that are not related to the agenda into the foyer. Calm down, please. Thank you. Mr Kubíček, then Mr Foldyna. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, on behalf of club YES, to include point No. 4. This is the Government's proposal for Act No. 289/2009 Coll., Tax Code, as amended, House Press 47, second reading, and continue to discuss it as the first item.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u16	First point. Okay. Now a colleague of Mr. Foldyna. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u17	Hello. Thank you, Mr President. I request that item be excluded from the agenda of the meeting of item No. 37. This is a bilateral treaty of the Czech Republic with a kind of Kosovo state. So, as part of the fact that there are 100 years of diplomacy between the Czech Republic and Serbia, I propose that this item be excluded from the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-01-ps2017-007-03-001-062.u18	Well, thank you. Anyone else in the debate on the agenda? It's not like that. We have two proposals ahead of us. The first proposal is that we continue with item No. 4, i.e. the tax system. The Minister of Finance is present. I think there's plenty of us here. We are going to vote on this priority point 4 as voting number 38, which I have begun, and I am asking who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 38 of the 130 present for 79, against 13. The point has been placed. So let's continue with item No. 4. We now have a second proposal, and that is Mr Foldyna's proposal to exclude item No. 37 of the agenda for this meeting. I've started voting number 39 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 39 of 132 present for 17, against 58. The motion was not accepted. This item remains on the agenda for this meeting. So we can continue with the amended agenda, and that's a point.
