ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-004-026.u1	26. Proposal for the election of the Chairman of the Permanent Commission Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of the General Inspection of Security Corps At the 4th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 19 December last year, when discussing points, we decided to suspend and adjourn this point until the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Within this point, all the chairmen of the Permanent Commissions, apart from the chair of the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, were elected to inspect the activities of the General Inspection of the Security Corps, and we will therefore address this choice now. It is therefore a resolution. The debate is not conducted, it is closed. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-004-026.u2	As mentioned, the election of the President of the Permanent Commission, I will take the shortcut, GIBS in the second round, I can say in the repeated second round of the first election, was nominated by the only candidate, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček for the KSČM, and it was the 19th December. Given that there was a contradiction in the validity of the first election, the first round, and the President of the Chamber of Deputies declared this round confusing, the plenary then decided by the procedural motion to suspend the item until today, until the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I, colleagues, would like to make it very factually and very brief for the record that December 19th - I am speaking for the electoral committee now - was not a contradiction in how many Members did not pick up the ballots for this election, what was the number of tickets, but who exactly or who were it. Those tickets issued and unpublished, as I reported, and I couldn't, because we were in the middle of another point, the state budget, already explaining it more on the microphone, so I'm taking advantage of this moment. We had the number of tickets issued and not issued, against each other counted on the electoral committee, but it was not marked on those lists where Members took part in the elections, who exactly took part in the election and did not participate, so only the contradictions that they were. And here I would still be in the future, and in a very short while you will see for yourself, for the electoral committee, I would like to inform you what corrective measures we have taken, how we have taken for these cases, if they happen in the future, as we have prepared. Firstly, those lists where you pick up tickets will be accurately marked attendance, respectively. picking up each single ticket, so the worker will mark not only that you've come to the choice, but it will mark, whether it's a block of two, three, five or more ballots, each one ticket, whether you've been picked up or not. In order to ensure that the choice or the issue of tickets is indisputable, the tickets will not be issued only by the Members of the House, the Secretariat, but will also be held alternately by the members of the Election Commission, in order to comply with the objective control by the members of the Election Commission. So much for this shoe. Let me repeat, it's a repeated second round of the first election. It has been said that the debate is not open at the moment, so I can now only ask for an interruption of the item and the opening of another vote point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-004-026.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm interrupting item 26. Initiating point
