ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-005-024.u1	24. Government bill amending Act No. 114/1995 Coll., on Inland Navigation, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 195/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, Dan Ťok, Minister of Transport, will present the proposal. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-005-024.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Transport is submitting a bill amending Act No. 114/1995 Coll., on Inland Navigation, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on Administrative Fees, as amended. The main objective of the bill is to ensure the transposition into national administrative order of Directive 2006/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2016/1629 of 14 September 2016 laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels, amending Directive 2009 and repealing Directive 2006/87/EC. The complete transposition of this Directive will be achieved through the adoption of implementing legislation, which is also remembered by the empowering provisions contained in the draft law. In particular, in accordance with the requirements of the Directive, the basic conditions for the operation of vessels on inland waterways, the process for the approval of the technical competence of vessels and the certification of vessels, the conditions for shortening and extending the period of validity of certificates of vessels, the establishment of a new registration of certificates of vessels proving compliance with harmonised technical requirements, including ensuring the transmission of the selected data to the European database of hulls and their deletion. The draft law also brings further changes beyond the framework of that directive. The most significant of these changes is the introduction of an obligation on operators of certain vessels operating on specified transport-related waterways to equip the vessel with a vessel tracking and tracing equipment and navigation chart display equipment and information on the position and movement of vessels. The legal anchoring of this obligation represents another step in the gradual implementation of harmonised river information services, the so-called RIS system, in the Czech Republic. This measure will in particular lead to increased navigational safety, environmental protection and traffic efficiency. Part of the proposed bill is also partial regulation and addition of certain provisions of the Inland Navigation Act based on experience from application practice, as well as the implementation of several terminology changes and modifications of legislative technical nature. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-005-024.u3	Thank you, too. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mrs Květa Matušovská. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-005-024.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, allow me to take up my position as rapporteur on the amendment to the Inland Water Navigation Act. As has already been said by the Minister, the main objective of the amendment is to ensure the transposition of the directive of the European Parliament laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels. In fact, the directive harmonises the conditions for issuing the vessel's certificate, regulates the issue of a single European vessel identification number, and it also explicitly regulates the European hull database, which is led by the European Commission and into which the Member States of the European Union transmit the specified vessel data. The most significant non-transpositional change contained in the draft amendment is the introduction of an obligation for operators of certain vessels operating on specified transport-related waterways to equip a vessel with tracking and tracing equipment for vessels and navigation charts and location information. The Ministry of Transport declares that, in relation to navigation, the introduction of this obligation will increase the safety of navigation on waterways, as well as the efficiency of sailing through the locks and overall more efficient operation of freight and public passenger transport and, last but not least, an increase in environmental protection. [[17.50 hours]] The Ministry follows this step not only on the test operation carried out on the basis of the European project, but also on the implementation of this obligation in other European Union countries, in particular the Federal Republic of Germany, the Slovak Republic, Austria and others. At present, operators of certain vessels are using position monitoring devices and navigation chart display devices on a voluntary basis or on the basis of contracts and entries concluded with the Ministry of Transport and the Czech Republic. These facilities have been lent free of charge to these vessels. This law also changes the conditions for carrying out the technical inspections which I hope will be entertained by the Economic Committee. The submitted material also includes an evaluation of the benefits and costs. The most appropriate solution for achieving regulatory objectives and achieving identified benefits appears to be the option of establishing an obligation to equip selected vessels, such as ships that are not recreational vessels, floating machines, small vessels with a hull length not exceeding seven metres and operated by a waterway manager, a navigational authority or a basic component of an integrated rescue system, which will actually be operated on selected waterways, which are the Elbe watercourse from Přelouč to the State border with the Federal Republic of Germany, including a fairway on the Greater Žernosek river and the Vltava watercourse to the confluence with Lab. This option requires the addition of one paragraph to the Inland Navigation Act and the addition of several provisions to the relevant implementing legislation. For the reasons set out above, the draft law can be assessed positively and it can be recommended that it be discussed in committees. The Guarantee Committee should be the Economic Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-005-024.u5	I, too, thank you and open a general debate that I do not have applications for at the moment. Before I close it, of course, I'll read one note. Mrs Věra Kovářová apologises between 17.45 and 18.30 because of the negotiations. I have a request for a factual comment here, but it can only be made in response to the debate, so I will ask if the Member is taking part in the debate. He's reporting. There you go. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-005-024.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have the opportunity to discuss this on the Economic Committee. I love these bureaucratic procedures where the idea of ordering someone to get a relatively expensive positioning system is born in their heads, which, of course, costs them nothing. This must be bought by vessel operators. And the only advantage it has besides that security, it's stalking. Peeping, where everyone can see where the vessel is located, so it's a tool to gradually dismantle any privacy. So that's it. And it's non-transpositional. The minister read it correctly, as his officials wrote to him. It is a non-transpositional measure, so, as always, like just some transposition or implementation of the European standard, a few stickers that could never pass in themselves, not even this House, but under a magic word and a roof, we have to do it because it is a transposition or implementation of the European standard, so let's just pack it up there. I just want to point this out. We will certainly deal with this on the Economic Committee, and I would like to draw your attention to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-005-024.u7	Thank you, too. I do not see any more applications for the debate, so I am ending the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. The Minister is interested in the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-005-024.u8	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to use the final word this time and respond to what my previous speaker has said here through the President. I'm convinced we don't have any other brother or any request here. My question, of course, was to our officials whether it had to be an obligation and whether it made sense. First of all, I'd like to say that we bought the expensive equipment to 95 percent of the vessels with European money, so they have it and they don't have to buy it. That's the first moment. The second moment is-- it's a request from those shipers who say the system is really good. And he's not a big brother. It's just a collision prevention. It's not like a car on a boat. If that ship goes and you can't see beyond the shore, if it's on a bad course, they can crash. And I just want to say, let's not look into losing your privacy. It's not for all ships, just those ships that are big and that can be a threat to traffic. So just for a little while. And I'm sure there'll be a debate on the Economic Committee where we can discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-005-024.u9	Thank you, too. I have just received a statement from Mr. Pávek. However, I cannot admit it, unfortunately, because the Minister did not speak until after the conclusion of the debate. So if you do not reach the opening of the debate any other way, I cannot let you go. And the rapporteur is not interested in the final word? He doesn't. In that case, proposals for repayment or rejection have not been submitted, so we will now consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. In that case, I'm going to call my colleagues to the ballroom, and I don't see the application for check-out. Check-out request, so I'm pulling everyone out. Please log in with your cards again. For those who are coming, I will repeat that we will vote on assigning the press to the guarantee committee. I'll wait for the number of Members of Parliament and Members to settle... Looks like we've reached a high point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the assignment. Who's against the commandment? Thank you. In the vote number 44, 160 Members and Members were enrolled, for 155, against 1. The motion was accepted. So I'm saying that we ordered the motion to the Committee of Economics as a guarantee. I'm asking if anyone has a motion on the commandment to other committees to discuss. The Organizing Committee did not propose any other committees. It's not like that. In that case, I'm saying we've exhausted this point. I'm ending it and moving on. I thank the plaintiff and rapporteur. In the remaining two minutes, I will allow myself to open a government proposal... Only to those two minutes, then firmly included section Informative report of the Minister of Health supplemented by information of the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports about the state of the Ostrava University Hospital and the Faculty of Medicine Ostrava, however, we still have time... Would I at least open it? I don't think it's worth the minute before we do anything... So if someone doesn't fundamentally object, I'll allow myself to open point 178 slightly prematurely. [[18.00 hours]] So I'm starting point number
