ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-003-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on waters and amending certain laws (water law), as amended, and Act No. 388/1991 Coll., on the State Environmental Fund of the Czech Republic, as amended /German press 45/6/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered to you as press 45/7. I welcome Senator Seitlová and Senator Hubáčková here, and I ask that Mr Richard Brabec, Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Environment, speak on behalf of the plaintiff for the Senate resolution. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-003-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I will be very brief because we still have a challenging program to attend. The Senate rejected this motion, and I confess that I didn't fully understand why in the Senate. Since the two key committees that recommended a return, but with amendments, I must say that many of these amendments had the support of the Ministry of the Environment. On the other hand, it is fair to say that some amendments that were -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-003-001.u3	I'm sorry, Minister, but I'm asking the House for peace! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-003-001.u4	Thank you for defending me, Prime Minister. Some of the amendments that came from the Senate, respectively. were proposed by the various committees, so they went against the meaning of the amendment, as it went from the House. Therefore, I must say quite fair that if all the amendments were passed as proposed by the Senate in committees, or as proposed by committees, I could not recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to approve this proposal. Therefore, I would like to ask you to approve again the original parliamentary proposal, which, I think, on 11 April of this year, was approved by the Chamber of Deputies in its third reading. Since this is not only a transposition of the European directive, which concerns the Water Directive, but I believe that this amendment, in a good way, is moving other things relating to waste water, simplifying charges and other elements that are in the interests of the matter and thousands of specific people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-003-001.u5	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask the rapporteur of Mr Turek's guarantee committee - he does not wish to speak, thank you. In that case, I am opening the debate and asking whether the Senator wishes to speak. So, Senator Seitlová has the floor, possibly Senator Hubáčková, if she wishes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-003-001.u6	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable representatives of the government, dear fellow Members. I stand before you as a representative of the Senate with a rejected amendment to the Water Law. The Minister briefly justified the submission of the amendment, and I will just remind you that this amendment originally aimed at correcting the lack of transposition of the Water Framework Directive, but subsequently the main focus of the directive is on changing the method of payment and the entire administration of charges for discharges of groundwater and surface waters as well as the collection of groundwater. We in the Senate received this amendment on April 27th. On 2 May, the Organisational Committee decided to deal with three committees: constitutional, economic and territorial development, public administration and the environment. We had a relatively short period of time, and then in 14 days all these committees met, and the first one, constitutionally, proposed the rejection of the amendment. The Committee on Economic and Committee on Territorial Development and the Environment has proposed amendments and returned these amendments to the House. At the Senate plenary, which was 17. 5., i.e. 14 days after the organisation committee decided on the commandment, amendments from committees and other amendments were tabled in this Senate plenary. The total number of these amendments was 26, which is indeed a large number for the Senate. It's just supposed to be fine-tuned. And out of these 26 amendments, 15 were legislatively technical. It is said to be legislatively technical, but I must say that some of them have actually been at the expense of not only the clarity of the law, but they can make certain problems in practice. So the Senate's vote, which is always the first to vote on rejection, is only a detailed debate, so in the first vote that took place after the general debate, the Senate decided 36 votes out of 60 senators present that the Senate is proposing to reject the draft law on waters. I have already given a little indication of the reasons, but I think the main ones were that the law contained very many legislative technical shortcomings. We have tried to correct the worst of the 15 amendments, but it is true that if we were to correct them all, with disunity terminology, with references to other applicable legal standards, we would probably have to rewrite the whole law. Unfortunately, this is a great shortage that all the senators have stated. [[15.30 hours]] And then there's the other thing. It was argued that, although the obligations of state administration on the territory or for the ORP, municipalities with extended scope, the law does not count on them to be added to the state administration. Another objection raised was that the amendment proposed new rights and obligations in connection with construction technical security. Lightening chambers. But no one knows what the construction technical measures will be, which are then bound by other obligations of operators. These will be dealt with as promised by the Minister, then by decree. This would certainly be a great degree of uncertainty for operators. And the last thing that has been discussed by senators and senators and which has certainly contributed to the rejection is that it has not been answered, as will be done in the event that the amendment tightens the conditions for the disposal of waste water, sewage from sewers by checking whether they have been disposed of at the appropriate sewage treatment plant. But the objection was: But what if the WWTP refuses to take over? She doesn't have a duty to take over sewage. There's no capacity. I think that here, although we all wish the sewage waters to be properly disposed of, unfortunately, the senators did not get a very clear answer. The result, as I said, was the rejection of the amendment, and I present to you as rapporteur of the Senate and the commission of my presentation of the results of the proposal, and I ask the Chamber of Deputies to consider and rethink the original consent to its adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-003-001.u7	Thank you, Senator. I'll ask Senator Hubáčková if she wishes to speak. It's not like that. In that case, Mrs Balcarová has the floor, which is the first to be logged in to the debate and the last to be logged in so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-003-001.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak about the amendment that we had here in the Chamber of Deputies and which has returned to us rejected from the Senate. For pirát in general the topic of water is a very strong topic, we care, we will take all steps to protect groundwater, we will deal with water prices and at the same time with water management in the landscape. [[on it]] Unfortunately, in our opinion, the amendment to the law, which was submitted to us in April of this year, did not go well - or went through a legislative process that was somewhat unfortunately adopted by the Ministry of the Environment by presenting its changes in the law through its Members by means of amendments and thus avoided actually processing the study on the effects of these changes, we lost the so-called. RIA. I think this is a very serious problem, and then, as Members, we do not have enough documentation to deal with this amendment. So that's one problem I'd see there. Then the senators, I looked at their positions, and they also react very negatively to technical and legislative deficiencies in addition to content. So I'd rather not support something where there's confusion in terms of interpretation of some terms. There's gonna be a problem with the novel application. At the third reading, we did not support this proposal, the pirát abstained, and at the same time, we will certainly not support this amendment to the Water Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-003-001.u9	Thank you, too. I'm asking if anyone else is applying. In fact, Mr. Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-003-001.u10	I, Mr President, have pressed the button on the technical comments, but it will probably be enough. He was here in the last term of the election. This has been going on for a long time, and we have always pointed out that the effects it brings are not well explored. It was not necessary, and to this day it is not clear how all the pits will have to be exported to sewage treatment plants, it will be reflected in the management of those cleaning plants, which are mostly managed and owned by the municipalities. We warned about this, and this happened in the new form, how it would actually affect the new demands on the relief chambers of the operation of municipal cleaners. It turns out that the senators, and so I think, the Senate's role is properly understood, they're closer to the citizens, everyone has their territory and they're moving in it, and they've certainly noticed the complaints of municipalities, especially small communities, which haven't yet been drained and cleaned. For example, in the Highlands there are municipalities that have never met the parameter of two thousand equivalent inhabitants. So there just has to be those waste pits that are going to have to be balanced this hard. Senators are recommending something, and I think we should follow their recommendation. We will therefore vote in favour of the Senate proposal, and we will certainly be happy to have the Minister consider the measures he has proposed to carry out some analysis of the impacts on the community environment and present the law in some other form, therefore more favourable to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-003-001.u11	Thank you. No one is going into the debate further, so I am ending the debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-003-001.u12	I will allow myself to react briefly before the vote. First of all, there were minor legislative technical deficiencies, which unfortunately went through the LRV repeatedly, and even through the House of Legislation, but after rethinking our lawyers, and not only ours, it was clearly stated that they would have no negative effect on any application of the law, which means that there would be some confusion. I consider that essential. The other thing is that we are currently preparing a big amendment to the Water Act with the Department of Agriculture. This was really just the little transposition, but there is a big amendment to the water law that should respond to the drought, I have already talked about it here, it should definitely be submitted to the government by the end of this year. It will be crucial in terms of the fight against drought. We can, and of course, remove the little things. But I also want to say that some issues that have been discussed here and in the Senate, such as the conditions for balancing the pits, so let me just remind you that the obligation has been postponed until 2021 eventually, which is really a very luxurious time for all the things that you object to, with which I so completely disagree, that it is not clear or that there might be any complications, so they have been clarified. So I'd like to ask you again to support the wording as it went through the third reading on April 11th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-003-001.u13	Thank you, too. The senator does not want the final word, in which case we will vote. We shall vote in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 of the Act on Rules of Procedure. Please, set up for volume 101. Thank you. The motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on waters and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 388/1991 Coll., on the State Environmental Fund of the Czech Republic, as amended, pursuant to House Press 45/6." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 128, it's vote 181, it's vote 121, it's vote 17. This proposal has been adopted and I note that we have agreed to the bill. I'm done with this point. I thank the Minister and thank both senators. [[15.40 hours]] Let's continue with the point.
