ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen of the honourable Members of the Government, I would ask you to settle in your seats, if possible interrupt the discussion at least, to sign up with your identification cards, or to tell me who votes with the replacement card. At this point, I say that Mr Valenta votes with replacement card number 2. The following Members asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting: Věra Adámková within 13 hours for work reasons, Pavel Jelínek for health reasons, Jana Levová for family reasons, Ilona Mauritzová within 13 hours for work reasons, Veronika Vrecionová for health reasons. They apologize from the members of the government: Jan Hamáček from the morning meeting for work reasons and Marta Nováková for work reasons. There. I'm gonna ask you once more to calm down. And I have here an application with Prime Minister Faltýnek's priority right, to whom I hereby give my word. Prime Minister, you have the floor. It's yours, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-000-000.u2	Good morning, esteemed colleagues. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to put a motion on the agenda as a response to yesterday's EET Act negotiations for first reading, and let me propose, on behalf of our parliamentary club, the inclusion of this item for tomorrow as the first item starting at 11 o'clock. This is point No. 21, House press 205. It's an amendment to the Sales Recording Act, first reading. So 11 o'clock tomorrow as the first point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-000-000.u3	Thank you. So I'm just saying that today we should start with point 114, which, of course, is the state budget, third reading. We would then focus on discussing other fixed points related to the state budget. These are points 115, 116, 117, 118 and 119. And let me remind you, at 12:30, we have fixed voting points. These are points 145, which is the choice of a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, 146 - appointment of a member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, 147 - appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic, 148 - election of candidates for a member of the Council of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. We would then, if necessary, continue according to the approved agenda of the meeting. I'm asking if anyone else...? Mr. Kaňkovský. Then I intercepted Vice-President Pikal's application. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-000-000.u4	Good morning, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues. Yesterday we asked the Chamber of Deputies to discuss the catastrophic situation on the D1 motorway. As you already know, the veto of the ANO Members was prevented from voting on the inclusion of this item. I would like to ask you to reconsider whether the situation that has occurred at D1 in the last days and weeks does not really ask us to discuss this issue at this meeting. I am also talking about this because few topics have moved so much in recent days and weeks, and these reactions are not only from people I meet in the Vysočina Region, but are on social networks and are also in the media space. We all know that the situation didn't happen last week, or that the causes weren't from last week, that the causes were long-term, and that even during the autumn, experts pointed out that in the climate most complex section of the D1 motorway, the narrowed 14-mile stretch was a gamble and that it was a gamble with people's lives. I'm just reminding you, I don't know if you all remember, there's already been a catastrophic situation on the D1 of a huge scale, it was, I guess, in 2008, when the mass crash occurred, and it was again in this section, and that wasn't even the narrowing. So this section is really very climate-friendly. And if anyone thought it wouldn't snow until December 16th, I don't know how to comment on it. I can just say it's a gamble. And I think the public is expecting the Chamber of Deputies to discuss this at this meeting and to send a signal to the public that it is not indifferent to it and that the real solution to this situation will come in days, weeks tops. That's one plane to the problem. And then there's the second plane of the problem, and that's how we're going to face the future so that similar situations can't occur on the backbone roads in the Czech Republic. Perhaps the members of the ANO movement thought that our goal was to seek the appeal of Minister Took. And I can tell you that the members of the ANO movement are wrong. The way in which the government is formed is the role of Prime Minister, and at this point, we are not asking for the head of Minister Took. We ask for a solution to the crisis situation on the D1 motorway because this is what the citizens of the Czech Republic expect from us. And then there's the second plane that Mr Skopeček mentioned here yesterday, and we talked about it yesterday morning at the KDU-ČSL press conference. We have a situation here for several years on the D1 motorway where 30 to 40 percent of the sections between Prague and Brno are in limited operation for most of the season. And we claim that it is inconvenient to the citizens of the Czech Republic to ask that those who use only this section of the D1 motorway and do not use any other motorway sections pay the fee for the motorway in full. Therefore, we call on the government to look for solutions both for 2019 to drivers who only use the motorway section between Prague and Brno, the D1 motorway, so that they can be exempted from the motorway fee. In my opinion, this can be solved very simply, and this is the solution that we have in the vicinity of large agglomerations, i.e. traffic signs, where it is possible to free the driver at least in content up to 3.5 tonnes from the motorway charge. I call on the government to do so. And I propose that a new item be placed on the agenda of this meeting, which would be called Information of the Government of the Czech Republic to address the crisis situation on the D1 motorway. And if this item is put on the agenda for this meeting, I propose that it be discussed as a second item tomorrow after 11 o'clock after that point proposed by the President of the ANO Faltýnek parliamentary club, and I presume that the government coalition will take that point. And the alternative as the first point on Friday, December 21, at 9 o'clock. Thank you for your attention and I would also like you to support this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-000-000.u5	Thank you. Next up, Vice-President Pikal is registered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-000-000.u6	Nice pre-Christmas time. It's just that when I hear the suggestions that we're gonna be here tomorrow, in response to what the interpelations looked like last time, I'd like to suggest that we take advantage of the time that's going to end earlier, and actually follow up with that block of messages, so that we don't waste time in case those interpelations look like last week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-19-ps2017-024-06-000-000.u7	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in a performance on the agenda. I see no one, so we will vote on the two proposals that have been made here. First of all, it is President Faltýnek's proposal on paragraph 21, House press 205, that he should be placed firmly tomorrow at 11 o'clock. We all know what we're voting on. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? This is vote number 124, 170 Members registered, 99 against 64. This proposal was adopted. [[9.10 hours]] And now we will vote first on the inclusion of a new item on the agenda of the meeting, as proposed by Mr Kaňkovský, who would be called Government Information on the resolution of the crisis situation on D1, if I may say so. So I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 125, 172 Members signed in, for 92, versus 7. [[Applause from the right side of the hall]] This proposal was adopted. And so now we are going to vote on the solid inclusion of this point. Mr Kaňkovský suggested that this should be the second point after what we approved a moment ago, i.e. after point 21 on Thursday. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's up for this point. Who's against it? Voting number 126, registered as 175, for 164, this proposal was also adopted. Vice-President Pikal did not propose any specific point, he merely spoke with priority rights. So we dealt with all the points as they were. If we make use of this time or not, it usually depends on the club's agreement, not that we vote on it. So I'd rather refer to how the Presidents agree, if we'd continue following the written interpelations, I suppose, directly with the next agenda of the meeting. I don't know if it's voteable in this form. Excuse me, I'd like to leave this for a discussion, so we can get back to it. Now, let's continue as I've announced, according to the approved agenda of the meeting. Opening point
