ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u1	105. The proposal of Members of Vojtěch Munzar, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura and others to issue a law amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended /German press 77/ - Third reading I would ask that Mr Vojtěch Munzar and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Jan Pošvář, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The motion for refusal is set out in the Houses of Print 77/4, which was delivered on 26 June 2018. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 77/5. I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we're at third reading, so you've heard some of the arguments I'm about to make. However, after the summer, allow me to reiterate the basic features of our proposal and the reasons for its submission. This proposal aims to return reduced limits for the application of flat-rate expenditures to CZK 2 million in revenues from separate activities, including the submission of a tax return for 2018. This means, in fact, that the reduction that the last House voted for would not have been CZK 1 million. From our point of view, spending flats are for self-employed people, because they concern this proposal and this possibility, the easiest. If they choose this method because it is an option, not an obligation, then they do not have to keep a complete tax record of their costs. It is sufficient to keep income and then simply set its costs by a legal percentage. That means he doesn't have to do paperwork. He doesn't have to record every receipt and he doesn't have to be an accountant at night. Because this is the reality of everyday life of self-employed people. They do paperwork at night, they do it on weekends, and they do it on those public holidays that we discussed here last night so stormyly. Instead of paperwork, such a businessman and entrepreneur can use their time and energy much more effectively. For example, the development of your business and the services of your neighborhood. [[9.10 hours]] The reduction in the limit caused entrepreneurs with income from CZK 1 million to CZK 2 million to change the conditions of their business and the administration to increase overnight. Imagine if you were in that situation. In some way you do business, you have your business set up somehow, and all of a sudden, from one day to the next, because the state has made up its mind, your conditions will fundamentally change without you having any influence and influence. I remind you, we're not talking about companies with their equipment and employees, but about individual individuals who make money on their own. As far as budgetary implications are concerned, we expect them to be really minimal. We estimated a cut in state budget revenue of less than a billion. In its opinion, the previous minority government estimated it to be 1.2 billion in the state budget. So here is more or less a rare match. In any case, it is an amount less than one tenth of a percent of the state budget. However, if we support this proposal, the state budget will almost not feel it, but tens of thousands of people will have a simpler life. In the first and second reading, the Minister of Finance raised its reservations on this proposal, particularly in two levels. Let me make a brief statement to them at the beginning. The government, as I said earlier, minority, states in its opinion that self-employed persons must keep tax records of VAT documents from one million crowns. So it probably doesn't matter, and the government says there's no increase in administration. However, this argument applies only in one single case, and this is when the entrepreneur buys his other services, goods and the like, exclusively in 100 per cent for other VAT payers. It then records all its cost items in the VAT return. But there aren't many of them. Most of the cases are others and in other cases, the increase in administration is therefore clearly taking place and this argument does not apply. The second argument, where it is again played rather on such a string of distrust and access to precautionary treatment for alleged dishonesty of small entrepreneurs, is an argument that spending flats could lead to tax optimization and thus to some tax advantage. I can't relate to that kind of attitude, but if we want to discuss it on this level, then I'm just going to remind you of a few of the numbers that the secretary said here. Our proposal concerns more than 158,000 people, self-employed. The government's government budget impact is 1.2 billion. 300 million in other budgets. So a total of 1.5 billion crowns in total. So the advantage of supposed optimization is 1.5 billion divided by 158 thousand, that's just over 9,000 crowns. Not in a month, not every month - for a whole year. For people with income from a million to two million. So it doesn't really look like an optimization. But I'll repeat, I can't relate to that argument. Because in the system of spending flats, a businessman with income between CZK 1 million and CZK 2 million - because we are discussing them here - will always pay a positive tax. Not to mention they're paying for health and social security. However, if they are forced to spend their time and energy on tax-related administration, it is a success to assume that they will focus more on their costs, and many of them, for example, can pay less taxes in the finals than when spending flats are applied. And flat rates are also easier to control by the financial authorities, because they can only control revenue and there may not be disputes over each applied item in costs. The real, most important advantage of spending flats is saving time. Time is a key and most important means of production for self-employed persons. In fact, they spend time not only on the activity as such, for which they consider the income, but also spend a lot of time on getting themselves a job. And they don't reflect this time in any way on their costs. And now the state has told them that part of this most important means of production, at its time, must be spent for the state to manage the administration associated with paying taxes. From my point of view, absolutely useless. And that's what we want to change. For your information, according to the World Bank's tax report, the tax administration in the Czech Republic takes an average of 248 hours. In Slovakia it is only 192 hours, in Austria 131 hours. With this proposal, we can at least reduce these hours for self-employed people. The very value of these people, these entrepreneurs, is contained in their very legal definition. They're alone, they're profitable, they're active, that's what it means. These people are looking for jobs themselves, offering us their services, contributing to our social system, paying taxes and contributing to the economic development of the Czech Republic. And the state shouldn't be here to load a lot of administrative burdens on any businessman who earns himself and doesn't get a job assigned, but vice versa, to create conditions for active citizens. [[Strong noise in the hall. The President is asking for peace.]] Thank you, Mr President. On the contrary, we should appreciate and support those who earn themselves. At least we should let them work quietly and not burden them with unnecessary administrative requirements in the name of fulfilling the state budget revenue of less than a tenth of a percent. It's not just our proposal. This proposal is based on positions, long-term positions, and has the support of the Chamber of Commerce and other professional associations of entrepreneurs. I would ask all of you across the political spectrum, and also the government, to come together to meet small businessmen, to let them breathe in calmly, to work in a favourable business environment. And that will lead to your support for this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u3	Thank you. The rapporteur is interested in the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u4	Thank you for the floor. I would first take care of the legislative section's request for legislative technical regulation. It is a change in the wording of effectiveness, where it is currently written "the fifteenth day since its publication. " And the repair should be on "the 15th day after the day of his publication."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u5	I'll cut you off. I'll open the debate. It would be better if you read it directly in the debate. If you agree to this, I am opening up a debate and I ask you to read the legislative technical amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u6	Okay, thank you. Then I'll do it again. There's a request for a legislative technical correction. That the wording of effectiveness would change to "the fifteenth day after the date of its publication'. Otherwise, I would just recapitulate what was going on around this press. It was first discussed by the government, i.e. the previous government, which issued a favourable opinion. Then, at first reading, a motion for rejection was loaded, which was subsequently withdrawn. The second reading again made a motion for rejection. The Committee also discussed this press and delivered an opinion in agreement. And then, before the third reading, the Committee decided on a voting procedure where it recommended The Chamber of Deputies shall vote in the third reading on the proposals put forward in the following order: first voting on the motion for rejection, then legislative technical amendments and third time, if the proposal is not rejected, voting on the proposal as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u7	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in the show. Mr. Ferjenčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the opinion of the Pirates Club. We support the proposal, we agree that it leads to a reduction in bureaucracy. There are also professions that, for example, have income from abroad, for example through the sale of internet advertising, small businesses on the Internet who do not have to pay VAT. So there's a profession that doesn't exactly apply to that limit of one million. That means raising the limit for them is very important even through this agenda. This means that bureaucracy will be simplified, and they do not necessarily become payers. That's one factor. [[9.20 hours]] The second factor is that negotiations are under way at European Union level at the moment to increase the obligation from which someone must be a debtor. Pirates support the reduction of bureaucracy, which means we encourage the compulsory payers to be from a higher amount. So if, in the future, we can reconcile spending flats and mandatory VAT payers, there will be an even more significant loss of bureaucracy for this group of businessmen. These are the reasons why we support this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u9	Thank you. Let me read the apology. Mrs Markéta Pekarová apologizes to Adamová for health reasons today. With priority rights, the Minister asked me, then with priority rights, President Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u10	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to comment. I will try not to repeat my arguments from first and second reading, but rather to follow them up. A year ago, you approved a change that has affected the so-called spending flats, or simply the possibility of spending the percentage of income that the nota bene - please note - we have the highest in Europe, 40, 60, 80 percent, and we do not intend to change anything about it. You have put a million crowns on them, and it has been compensated by the fact that these so-called pawnists, as we call them, can apply a new discount on their wives and children. At the time when this amendment was adopted, it was still in the course of proceedings before the Constitutional Court whether the fact that this discount had been withdrawn in the past by the pausalists is not unconstitutional -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u11	Madam Secretary, I'm sorry, I'm gonna interrupt you for a second. I feel that the noise level is higher than appropriate, especially from the left side. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So even though the Constitutional Court said today that it was not unconstitutional. This means that the amount of a million crowns has been covered, but at the same time the possibility of applying a discount on the wife and children has returned, with the fact that we have left there a year of transitional period, when the patron could choose one or the other option. I had countless x cases - even as Deputy Minister I had prepared legislative regulation - where the use of a lower limit of CZK 1 million was more advantageous, with a discount being applied to my wife and children. This is the first argument that after a year we are doing it legislatively again - we are introducing a change in something that only a year ago, with some delay, was the possibility of a transitional provision. I would only correct the petitioner in that way that the basic argument why we reduced it to a million crowns was that it was the reduction, that actually who would reach this income of a million crowns, virtually. turnover, so it becomes a mandatory payer and is affected by a certain administration associated with the Value Added Tax Act, so the simplification of administrative complexity falls here. I would also like to correct it in the same way that even a businessman with income higher than 1.2 million, for example, can use these spending flats, but, of course, they are covered by that amount. I would also like to correct it in the fact that the World Bank's data on administrative complexity was old. We need to look at the last ones, they've moved us considerably higher in the rungs and we've gotten in front of Slovakia too, so it's not what it says here. Of course, I would not have a problem with this proposal if it actually aimed there, as the translator says, that is, the aim was to simplify and relieve the administration of small and small entrepreneurs. But I have a rather detailed analysis of who is actually using these so-called spending flats. Without any evaluation, it does not aim at small craftsmen, small entrepreneurs, because according to the comprehensive analysis that I have received, aggregated data from the Financial Administration, they use actual expenditure, not expenditure on income. So we aim for a group of legal accounting activities, they use almost 70 percent of spending flats, creative artistic entertainment activities, business management activities, management consultancy, administrative, office and other support activities, information technology activities. So it doesn't really aim for the smallest group. I would like another thing to be said here that spending flats today represent a certain tax advantage in a number of cases. There's no doubt about it. That's how we see it. That's indisputable. It then manifests itself in a certain way between individual entrepreneurs, which means typically those sectors, such as retail, do not take advantage of flat rates at all. On the contrary, sectors that do not need substantial material security, which was, for example, the ones I quoted here, so in this particular case, they have the tax advantage, because they would never have reached the actual cost of achieving them if they applied a percentage of their income. Another argument made here was made by Mr Ferjenčík on the part of the Pirates, which was that at the level of the European Commission, and I spoke about it on the Committee on Budgets when this press was discussed, it has been very intensive since December of the previous year - it is related to the so-called definitive VAT regime - about increasing the mandatory VAT plate. And this is the moment when we have to think about the impact, if this proposal comes to light, because VAT is a harmonised tax, so we have to think about the overall concept, because it will also be reflected in this area, and we will, of course, take this into account especially in the forthcoming Income Tax Act, which means we will look at this step comprehensively again. At this point, however, it is a very short time, we are unable to calculate even the exact effects. The petitioner said 1.2 billion, we are guessing that this is the minimum impact that this measure will have, it may be 1.5 billion, but especially at this moment we will unsystemically pull out a piece, unsystemically, without the proposal containing any analysis, without specifying why we should return the ceiling to 2 million again, which I absolutely lack. Moreover, the last sentence I dare say - we have long been criticized by the OECD and the European Commission for the fact that there are differences between the taxation of employees' income and entrepreneurs, and this is how we will continue to open the scissors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u13	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík. I then register three priority rights here - President Farský, Mr Munzar for the plaintiff and then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u14	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond briefly to the Minister. I would like to say that by supporting small IT entrepreneurs, we consider it a positive thing, because this is a high added value sector that has a very large impact on our economy, and it is positive to support this sector. I certainly wouldn't conclude from supporting the information technology sector that we shouldn't accept it for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u15	Thank you. Now, then, President Farsky.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u16	Hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, only for the Club of Mayors and Independents. We support this proposal. We support it because we see spending flats as a certain agreement between the state and the entrepreneur, which is advantageous for both parties in the setting in which it is. The entrepreneur has more scope on the basis of his activity, business, value creation and profit creation, and therefore the creation of values from which he then pays taxes, while the state, on the other hand, for these small entrepreneurs, does not work with the fact that he has to control individual glued documents and report complex journals, and saves on the other side and the state. [[9.30 hours]] So the sum, even though we're talking about a state budget blackout, that these taxes are going to go a little bit less, but it also has to be counted that the state on the other side can do much better with the big leaks, the billions, the hundreds of millions, the tens of millions that still aren't paid and tax optimizations, the illegal tax optimization, are being taken out of the state budget. And I think it's good to let financial officials loosen their hands and allow them to prosecute real problems, not the supposed ones. So for this reason, we support the increase in this line, because a flat-rate expenditure is an agreement between a state and an entrepreneur that is advantageous for both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u17	Thank you. And I'm gonna ask you again, in case you have anything to do with this, you're gonna have to deal with it in the lobby and not disturb those who have the floor. With a point of fact, the Volný Member wishes to respond. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, kind government. I would like to respond by your means to Mr Farský's performance. He said it right. The flat-rate payment should be an agreement between the entrepreneur and the state to be mutually beneficial. I think the Minister has put enough information on the table here, when it seems to me that perhaps at this moment the higher flat rate for the state is not so advantageous, but I am convinced that even for the entrepreneur, because the return of the deduction to the wife and children makes up for the whole problem of the million reduced flat rate and, on the contrary, this makes it much easier and faster for the entrepreneurs, because the deduction is automatic, they simply use it and do not have to count anything special. That means, I emphasise again, I agree that this is an agreement between the state and the entrepreneur, but it must be balanced. And from what I have heard from the Minister, and as I see it, I think that at present, or on the basis of the amendment and amendment tabled by Mr Munzar, it would not be balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u19	Thank you. Another factual point, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u20	Thank you for the floor. Allow me just a brief response to Mr Volný. I think this is where we came across the exact difference between worlds. In our view, any obstacle that is removed from the businessman's path, whether administrative or fiscal, any relief granted to him is beneficial for the state. Because he has to feed us, too. If you feel that if it's not convenient for the state, because it can't be counted on the crowns, then we'll probably never agree. I assure you that this removal of obstacles in business can be counted on the koruna and that it is beneficial for the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u21	Thank you. I shall now ask the appellant who has applied with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u22	Thank you. I have taken detailed notes from the Minister's speech and allow me to respond briefly to this already in the debate, not just in the final words. The first thing the Minister said here was that it was reduced because, at the same time, the opportunity of entrepreneurs to benefit from a discount on dependants came back, that is to say, a wife and children. You know, not everyone who uses flats has kids and not everyone who has kids uses tax expense flats. I personally believe that the application of discounts is a social policy of the State to support families and it is simply not appropriate to balance it with any other administrative measures. This is just an example of the fact that entrepreneurs in some eyes - or some people treat entrepreneurs as class, and this approach misses the individual lives of those entrepreneurs. In other words, it is such a handl - we will graciously return the possibility of applying discounts to children, but we will burden you with administrative burdens. Because really for some tax advantage, I figured it out for you guys, it's not. So I don't like this attitude, but I guess this is where we really miss each other in that view. The second thing I said here in my opening words, and the Minister repeated the argument that The Ministry of Finance believes that there is no increase in the administrative burden by increasing it from one million to two million. Of course, the administrative burden is increasing. The argument put forward by the Minister only applies to those who purchase 100% - 100% - of their other services and goods for other VAT payers. There is clearly an administrative burden on the others to a lesser or greater extent. Madam Secretary here said that IT specialists, architects, doctors, etc. use it a lot. These are high value added disciplines. And we don't want to support such fields? The Czech Republic may not be able to offer them such salaries and income as it is to the west of us. So let's balance it out with something else, and that's simple business and simple terms. Can't it be a competitive advantage of our state? I have been hearing here for a long time at various seminars, in the House, in the Economic Committee, elsewhere, in various forums, representatives of all parties, including the ANO movement, how we must support a sector with greater added value, as it is important to us. They're inventing subsidies, they're inventing start-ups. And if we can do some sort of business for entrepreneurs who take care of themselves and don't want anything from the state, if we can support them by reducing the administrative burden, then the Ministry of Finance is unfortunately against it. Just let me do one last thing. I'm so sorry the secretary here used the lack of analysis. This reduction from two million to a million in the previous Chamber of Deputies was not a government proposal, but was also a parliamentary proposal without analysis. So I'm sorry to use this argument because I don't think it's very fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u23	Thank you. The next one is registered with priority rights by President Stanjura. Prime Minister Stanjur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u24	Thank you for the floor. Before I read you anything, I'd like to show you how the Secretary of State can fence with that $1 million limit for the VAT payer. In this case, it says that it is excellent and logical for flat rates to match that limit, because those who have over a million and are liable VAT payers do the administration anyway. If we use the same limit with the EET, which is to fight VAT evasion, so it's for non-competitors, that means to make it into a million, the secretary will say - that's completely non-systemic, I don't understand the connection. [[unintelligible]] So, you see, one time, the line's good, and the other time's bad. And tax benefits, flat rates. I disagree with that, Madam Secretary, for a long time. Try to suggest - and I say this very often - that legal persons should have flat rates. This means, even if they had the highest flat rate, that they would be from their income - 20 percent will be the tax base. Look at the legal entities that pay taxes. That would be the tax revenue of the state, wouldn't it, if that were true of legal persons! So this attack on the little ones is completely pointless. The flat-rate payments are not due to the tax advantage, but to simplify bureaucracy and less paperwork. Madam Secretary said it right. If a businessman knows that costs are equal to 70, 80, 90 percent of his income, he doesn't apply them, logically, because he calculates that it is better for himself, for example. hire an accountant, and it's still gonna come back to him. But it's not the tax... That would be the duty of the flats, and that's completely different. This is the possibility of the flats. I repeatedly argue that linking a discount on wives or husbands or children to what a parent does is not fair and is not part of a fair family policy of the state. If the state has made the right decision, I point out correctly that those who work and raise children at the same time have tax concessions, so it should pay on a flat-rate basis. Not according to whether parents are employees, entrepreneurs, self-employed people and whether they apply flat rates below 50 percent of their income or over 50 percent, because there was still a limit of 50 percent flat rate to apply. This is especially true for those who earn extra money and do not have it full-time, business and self-employed. [[9.40 hours]] I don't know if all the MPs or club presidents got it. Before each meeting, I will be given the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce on the various prints or the prints that the Chamber of Commerce is dealing with. Once again, if it is in line with government policy, the ministers here often say "negotiated with business organisations, even the Chamber of Commerce agrees, so what the right has, for they were not against the EET, the representatives of the entrepreneurs." When the Chamber of Commerce fully supports this proposal, it is kept silent. So that it is not kept silent, so that it is on the screen, I will read you a rather brief opinion of the Chamber of Commerce on this press: The Chamber of Commerce fully shares the objective of this proposal, which expresses the interests of small entrepreneurs. The main idea of the proposal is to return the annual income limit for applying the flat-rate expenditure to a value of 2 million. Kč. Last year, an important part - without discussion with business associations - was reduced to half. - No discussion! And that's what she calls the secretary of the system measure. Without discussion with the business unions, writes the Chamber of Commerce. It was the novel 170/2017 Coll. - For small businessmen, spending flats are the easiest way to meet tax obligations and not to be swamped by stacks of paper. By reducing the attractiveness of spending flats for many small entrepreneurs, however, it has decreased and the reduction cannot be considered an incentive either to start, to continue or to develop business. The Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic as a representative of ordinary entrepreneurs - ordinary entrepreneurs - understands that the State has taken a number of tax measures in recent years in order to reduce fraud. - Now there is a sentence for us, for Members: A wise, perceptive legislator should also balance restrictive steps towards ordinary entrepreneurs who are properly fulfilling their responsibilities. Small businessmen, whether self-employed persons, for whom this occupation is the only or the main livelihood, or those who simply earn their jobs or pensions, are an indispensable part of our economy and society and represent a significant part of the electoral base of each political party, together with their family members. Therefore, the Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic recommends that the draft law be approved. So much of the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce, the Trade Union, which represents a proper entrepreneur whom the Minister has not spoken about, because it does not fit her argument. The budgetary implications quoted by Mr Munzar are an estimate of the Ministry of Finance. Madam Secretary then questioned them. I don't understand. We take this as a serious matter, we don't want to argue about it, because if we were to estimate it, we're going to estimate it a little lower, but for the fairness of the discussion, we're going to take the budgetary implications estimated by the Ministry of Finance. Let's see how many small businessmen this could involve. It's hard to estimate, but I'd say a few tens of thousands might be involved, because we don't know if they're going to take advantage of it or not, even with the increased spending flats. So the impact, and this also applies to their families, is positive for hundreds of thousands of citizens, which at least reduces bureaucracy a little bit. The government is planning a state budget revenue of about 145 billion next year - or 143, I'll say 140 not to be corrected for overdoing it. 140 billion increase in revenue, not overall income. And now suddenly there is a problem, supposedly a budget problem, with one and a half billion impact on all budgets, because of course it has an impact on the budgets of municipal and regional authorities. With the tax package, in a few moments, we will see how the government wants to take hundreds of millions of nonsensical measures for self-government - taxing subsidies and contributions to contribution organisations. It doesn't really matter there. In doing so, the government tells them how it still helps the municipalities, so here it defends 300 million, and there it imposes much higher obligations on them. I have some calculations from some cities here, but I'll save that for the tax package debate. There's no reason not to pass the law. If we're serious about the passwords to fight bureaucracy, at least one group of small businessmen can simplify the business. These are people who do not seek tax holidays and investment incentives in other countries. These are people who will not leave the Czech Republic for offering lower taxes or subsidies. These are the people who provide so much needed services to our citizens and without which our communities and cities would in principle not work. And suddenly, the government, even the secretary, said, "Oh, yeah, maybe that's all true, but the one and a half billion is just handy so we can redistribute it." Redistribute. To take it from them and give it to someone else. Because a stranger gives away very well, we all know how to distribute money from someone else. It's a nice job to split money when it's not mine, but it's taxpayers. I don't understand it, the obstinate resistance to this small one, but for those tens of thousands of small businessmen, important matters. I also recall from this point of view the Chamber of Commerce that it is a proper businessman who carries out his duties towards the State. So it will be easy to make decisions: either they will continue to be vulgar suspects and we will impose further and further orders on them, or at least we will make business life easier for them and their business, and we will also show that, as people active, hardworking, who employ not only themselves, their family members, but also create many other jobs, the Chamber of Deputies appreciates their problems. And if by making a decision, it actually made their problems bigger, then they needn't be ashamed to admit it, and they need to get back at it. Moreover, the proposal could also relate to the 2018 tax period, so that they would not actually come - or have the opportunity to use it in this accounting period. Once again, it is an option, depending on each particular entrepreneur whether he uses it or not. So it's simple - we want to cut the paperwork. Whoever wants to cut the paperwork votes with us who does not want to cut the paperwork and wants to continue to complicate the life of entrepreneurs, those small, businessmen, will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u25	Thank you. I'll read the apologies quickly. Mr Martin Stropnický apologizes for working reasons for today's meeting. The Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes for his work in the morning. Another one for the Prime Minister's priority right discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to respond briefly to my previous speakers. In what way, let me just remind you, it's actually the businessman's decision whether he's going to spend a percentage of his income or whether he's going to use actual expenses. Simple. He's just gonna do the math. He calculates what the expenditure is real, and if it is not enough for the flat rate, he will apply the flat rate. That means he's not gonna lose the calculation anyway, because it would have to be an exceptionally businessman where it's obvious at first sight. Let me remind both the petitioner and President Stanjur who unsystemically canceled the discount on his wife and children for the so-called patrons. It was the government of the ODS, Public Affairs and the TOP 09, please. That's just a reminder here, so we're clear. So the last government put it back. And the logic of a million-dollar ceiling, and I've already said so much about it, I'm just not gonna say it again. The fact that I have selectively listed some types here, and these are aggregated data from the Financial Administration, where the Financial Administration simply - and I have the right to that data - is not subject to confidentiality - has selected the type groups for me and there has written the percentages of those who apply the so-called group. flat-rate spending, and I have said it because I do not wish to waste it, but because I wanted to point out that this measure does not support tradesmen as a whole, but supports selectively only certain groups, simply those groups that do not need costs. [[9.50 hours]] President Stanjur, as far as the EET and your comparison are concerned, he is very limping because we are still talking about spending on this proposal, but we are talking about income at EET. So incomparable things. We don't even consider introducing such a proposal to legal persons. I won't even promise because I don't want to think about where creativity would lead, no way. It's a measure that was implemented years ago, and you were mostly on the right spectrum, so you know it was being implemented as support. They're the highest flat rates in Europe. We don't want to touch them, it's simply promoting the business of the smallest and eliminating administrative difficulties. And with that, I stand by it that we didn't burden anyone with that million-dollar ceiling because that's where VAT is required to be paid. As far as the unions are concerned, of course, they are a reminder point, so at this point it has dealt with the standard way. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u27	Thank you. Before I give the floor to another logged in, there are two factual points. First Mr. Martínek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u28	Hello. I'm just taking a short look at the argument about the one-million-dollar limit. This is where I'd like to add for information to the others. So it's not true that everyone who has what income taxes up to one million... over one million are automatically VAT payers. There are a lot of income exempt from VAT, a lot of entrepreneurs who have taxable transactions in another Member State of the European Union, and these revenues are not included within that limit. So it's not true that this argument for one million is such that it doesn't mean that anyone who has income over a million and taxes income over a million, so they have to keep accounting, they have to keep all these accounting requirements that complicate his business unnecessarily. And that's why we should support this very change. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u29	Thank you. Another factual point, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u30	I know Madam Secretary understands, but he's trying to confuse you when we talk about EET. So, of course, that million is on the revenue side, who has an obligation, or we propose that these be removed from it. So, of course, it's not a comparison of pears and apples. One day it's a good argument and one day it's not. So it's crucial in one of the Income Tax Act, and there's no need to go anywhere but the limit of a million, according to the Minister's argumentary, and the EET doesn't have to be the limit. He can go somewhere else. Whether 200,000 or zero, it doesn't matter, but it doesn't have anything to do with that VAT limit. Moreover, as I point out, the EET has been declared to combat VAT evasion. Well, it's amazing to fight VAT payers that they don't pay VAT. That's why they're called punks, isn't it? That's perfectly logical. But the secretary just refuses to see the logic, and he's still gonna tell the mantra how great EET is. It was nice and I would say true, as the Minister said, that we from the right part of the spectrum supported small businessmen. You, Madam Secretary, from the left side of the spectrum, don't do that. That's quite all right, that's what the political struggle between the right part of the political spectrum and the left part of the political spectrum is all about. Many colleagues from the ANO movement argue how right-wing they are, as they support business, and this will be shown in the votes. Not in those declarations. Such declarations "I am right-wing, I support entrepreneurs" - that's nice, I like to hear it, but then there will come a specific vote and that will show who is saying it, but who is doing it with their voice. Even against the opinion of his own secretary. The state in recent years and the Financial Administration is obsessed with tax collection. He makes mistakes a lot. And the secretary will say, "Those officials are going to have to temper themselves." At least I got it from public sources. If you've been misquoted, please, Madam Secretary, complain about the publishers. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u31	Mr Skopeček is duly enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u32	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, fellow Members of the government. I would also like to ask you to support this law. I have many reasons for this, but the most serious one is that, in my opinion, spending flats are not so much about trying to reduce taxes, but about trying to make life easier with tax regulations, with an agenda that is linked to accounting and paying taxes. I'd like to draw your attention to one number. In 2017, the World Bank, together with one major audit firm, published a comparison of the complexity of the tax system in international comparison. In the complexity of the taxes that companies have to pay, the Czech Republic has ranked 26th in the 32 countries examined by the EU and EFTA countries. On average, our companies spend 234 hours a year filling out and an agenda related to paying taxes. We are therefore on the verge of European countries as regards the complexity and complexity of the company's performance of tax obligations, and this is, of course, also reflected in the payment of taxes on individuals, small entrepreneurs, where the agenda is also the most complex. Unlike this government, I don't think we need just big corporations in our economy. That our economy must not just stand on large international, multinational companies, which the government ultimately subsidizes with incentives and various subsidies. I think that the salts of our economy are tradesmen who do a lot of useful work and deserve to have easier demands on the fulfilment of tax obligations. And the international data shows that this is not the case. The second argument is the fact that we are sometimes talking about here and over which we are begging, and that is too much influence or too much dependence of the Czech Republic on the major international corporations, which is connected with the relatively large volume of capital drain from the Czech Republic, which only amounted to 276 billion in 2017. CZK, and it was more than 8 percent of our GDP. Thanks to our dependence on foreign capital, such money leaves the Czech Republic abroad every year. It is, of course, due to the structure of our economy, it is due to the weakness of our domestic capital. The journey to make the domestic capital stronger will, of course, be long, it will be difficult, we cannot change the structure of the economy from year to year, but one of those trips is, of course, to free the hands of the smallest of our domestic entrepreneurs, so that some of them can become a larger company in time. Some of them may also be multinational companies, big, successful companies. But if we're gonna be throwing sticks at the level of small-scale businessmen, small-scale businessmen, we can't expect them to be successful multinational corporations sometime in the coming years. So one more summary: Our businessmen, companies spend 234 hours fulfilling their tax obligations. Just for comparison, it's 63 hours in Switzerland. We are putting forward a bill here that will make it very easy for the smallest entrepreneurs to work. I'd like that for the big companies, too, but let's agree that at this point we can at least make it easier for the small businessmen. Thus, those who want to support business, who want to ease the administrative demands and bureaucracy of small entrepreneurs will certainly vote in favour of this bill. This bill will be voted against by those who prefer large corporations and who like to redistribute the state. And even that crown from a businessman who could use it better than the state is good for this government to redistribute it. So decide what you're for. Whether you are for business, for small entrepreneurs, or for the state and for state redistribution. And decide as you see fit. I would recommend supporting our little businessmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u33	Thank you. Your performance raised several factual points. Mr Volný came forward first, then President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u34	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to respond by your means to Mr Stanjura's observations. What scared me a little bit was his turn, that the Financial Administration is obsessed or furious - now I don't know exactly what word he said, so that he wouldn't pull it off the screen record again - in collecting taxes. It's normal. I mean, taxes are supposed to be paid, and we have the authorities, and we're paying the government to collect the taxes. I'm going to give you an example that happened to me three years ago when a Pilsen businessman approached me and said that he was being bullied by the Financial Administration and that they were asking him for a 35 million tax return and that it was some news that he didn't know anything about it. So I listened to him. I say, if that's the case, it's wrong, it can't happen. - I got the proper information, and two weeks later, I came up to him and I said, "But you set up a business where you pulled money -- it was some kind of commercial -- and that's how you laundered money. - That's right. - But I said, "But the law's been in effect for 20 years, you can't do this." - Well, that's true too, I know that. Yeah, but we've been doing it this way for ten years, and they have to give us a little bit of space if they want us to just figure it out so we can start doing it differently... That's just how some entrepreneurs look. I point out, some entrepreneurs who knew that they were circling the law, that they were circumventing tax obligations, but they were very surprised that they did it for 20 years, and no one cared, and suddenly someone wanted them to. And yet he had the audacity, the courage, he simply said: But there should give us some delay, they should give us the space to prepare for this money to be asked of us. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] That's how it's done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u35	Thank you. Another point of fact, President Kováčik, then Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, just a small point. Since you remember everything, I still have the ability and the short-term memory, I will only remember yesterday and I will remind you how the ODS fieryly fought against other support of entrepreneurs, small, medium and large, against the support of green diesel. So just that for those who tell us who will vote in favour of this law is the one who supports business, and the one who will not vote in favour of this law is the one who does not support business, as the ODS voted yesterday. So they don't support business in the country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u37	Thank you. Vice-President Filip, then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, members of the government, I will be very brief. Some demagogical claims that when someone supports this law, he's good, and if he doesn't support it, he doesn't really support business at all, I think it's pointless. It's pure demagogy. Because a number of law firms who also work in that system would rather hand out those sums to their associates and employees than go to the flats because they're nicer, the employees, they're gonna give it to them on wages, so why would she use it? Stop the demagogy!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u39	Thank you. The next president of Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u40	It worked out pretty well. I can respond to all three shows. Mr. Volný is talking about something completely different from me. And if he wants to defend the illegal steps of the Financial Administration, let him do it. That's what I'm talking about. And that's not the opposition's opinion. Those are the decisions of our judicial authorities. And where is the responsibility of those who broke the law? If a businessman breaks the law, something pays late, there will be sanctions. And it's okay. But when the state does something wrong - and the courts repeatedly decide that the Financial Administration has acted illegally - nothing happens. Nothing at all. We've been debating the problem on the budget committee for a year and a half. I didn't hear a single personnel measure. This can simply happen when we want to collect taxes, so sometimes they move illegally. But with this argument, the entrepreneur would fail, and rightly, he would fail. So let us be fair and demand that the public administration, in particular, comply with the laws. And if the court decides that it was illegal, then the personnel consequences need to be drawn from it, not that nothing has happened. Yes, President Kováčik, through Mr President, we are against non-systemic subsidies. I know the left loves subsidies, grant titles. I'm one of those who say that the most corrupting business environments are grant titles. They're unfair, unsystemic, and they're corrupting the market. This has nothing to do with the promotion of business. Business promotion is a tax reduction and a simple business environment. And I don't think I'm gonna respond to Vice President Filip. I'm not an attorney. But just so mathematically, if I were to have two or one million of that income from a law firm, which I don't rule out is that such law firms are to be able to think about using spending flats, whether under the current law or our new law, I don't know how much they're going to give out to those associates when we're talking about income either 1 million or 2 million a year. Well, maybe there are law firms, I don't have this experience, I don't consider it a mass phenomenon, a law firm whose total annual income is 1 million or up to 2 million a year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u41	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Now, with Mr Ferjenčík's factual remark, then President Kalousek. And there's four or three more. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond briefly, through Mr President, to my colleagues. First of all, I was surprised that President Filip and President Kováčik of the KSČM so strongly oppose this law, as the KSČM supported him on the Committee on Budgets with both votes there, so I do not understand why they want to block it now. Or, I hope, therefore, that they will vote consistently with the Committee on Budgets and support it here in plenary. Otherwise, what are these committees to do if political parties vote on committees in some way and then think about plenary? That's one thing. The second thing about the Volný's note. I think the problem with the tax administration is that she's just doing the tax wagon for the smallest. Those warranty orders just got completely out of control. There are ten times smaller amounts today that are secured than they were in the past. It targets the smallest. And there's repeatedly unauthorized excesses that cancel the court. And that's the problem. Of course, we do not question the fact that the tax administration exposes someone who does not pay taxes properly. However, there are tens of percent of the cases happening here, and the courts are shutting it down. And we consider that a mistake. In addition, I would like to point out that the collection of corporate tax, the largest payers, the corporations, is growing at the lowest rate of all taxes, only 2,5 percent year on year, while the income tax of employees, the collection is growing by 15 percent, social, health insurance. And corporate tax is growing at least because the Financial Administration can't shed light on these big tax evasions through these massive tax optimizations, through some cross trades, etc. So that's where we think she should be headed. And instead, she lowers the bar and focuses on smaller and smaller subjects.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u43	Thank you. Now President Kalousek, then Mr Skopeček, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u44	Thank you for the floor. I, too, agree with Mr Volný that the use of the word frantic in the event of the Financial Administration is not possible. A word, if any, is an option. An act with which the Financial Administration violates the law. An act with which the Financial Administration does not respect the Supreme Court's judgments. And the evil that he's destroying - and we're all gonna have to pay for it - illegally small and medium-sized companies. If the Minister herself has said that the officials will have to moderate, then you have proof from your own ranks, Mr. Ambassador, that there is something to it, even though I consider this statement from the Minister's mouth to be cynical alibiism. I know from experience that the officials didn't make it up. They behaved that way because they had a clear political assignment. So Minister Schillerová and former Minister of Finance, Prime Minister Babiš, are fully responsible for the illegal liquidation of the companies. There can be no doubt about that. Of course, taxes have to be collected, but the sheep are simply cut, mostly considerately, lovingly, called in a client's way in a tax relationship. The approach that cuts the sheep first and then withdraws is simply part of the jihad that you and your government coalition lead against small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And that includes this illegal act of the Financial Administration. On what President Kováčik has said, I would just like to point out that the proposal that we are debating now is for everyone and cannot be compared to the distortion for a narrow group whose relief will be paid for by everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u45	Thank you. I'll use my moments to read a few apologies. Mr Zaorálek apologizes from the afternoon block of negotiations from 15 a.m. to the end of the working day for work reasons. Mr Milan Pour apologizes from 14.30 to 16.00 because of a doctor's visit. And Minister Miroslav Toman apologizes from 9.00 to 12.00 for work reasons. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Skopeček, then Mrs Vrecionová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u46	Thank you for the floor. I still want to respond to two Communist MPs. First of all, we didn't support green oil. We promise you that we will never support any exception for a particular selected business group. And it was nothing personal against farmers. But if you come up with any exception at the expense of other entrepreneurs for any other group of entrepreneurs, it doesn't have to be farmers, we don't support it either. When you come up with a discount on the excise duty on petrol for all entrepreneurs, for bakers, butchers, farmers, we'll be happy to support it. But we will never contribute as you do, so that our tax system is even more complex by one group of entrepreneurs having an exception, the other group will not have an exception. And that's what green oil is all about. It is not about promoting business, it is about supporting one selected business group at the expense of the others. But when you come up with a reduced excise duty on petrol, which will apply to all entrepreneurs, we are happy to join such a communist proposal as an ODS club. But I don't really believe you're presenting him. As for the second criticism of President Filip that it is not about who is in favour of business and who is against business, it is about that. Let's face it, the reduction in spending flats, the limits, was made to give the government more money to redistribute. It wasn't about anything else. Let's face it. The government wanted additional resources from the tradesmen, and that's why it just changed the spending flats. We say that entrepreneurs in our country, and I said the numbers, they do a lot of time in their tax duties, compared to Switzerland, for example, incomparably. And this is how, at least for small entrepreneurs, the administration, the bureaucracy, the time they need to fulfill their tax obligations to reduce them. If we want to reduce their tax obligations, the hours they spend on tax returns, we think it's business support. Whoever wants to redistribute more, and whoever is better off with more money from the tradesmen, he wants to redistribute more. [[Time warning]] That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u47	Thank you. Now, Mrs Vrecionová. Mr. Chairman Kováčik will be ready. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u48	Good morning, colleagues. I don't even believe my ears. Yesterday, colleagues - colleague Kováčik and former Minister Jurečka - blamed me for the fact that ODS does not want to support green oil and that it does nothing at all. What we propose as a substitute solution. This is exactly what would be very helpful, but, of course, not just to agricultural entrepreneurs, but to everyone across the board. You can tell me what's the point of green oil, so if someone pays a tax, then they have to fill it out, my colleague said that only two pages, she has to send it somewhere, there has to be a clerk to check it out, then she decides whether there's a mistake or not, she sends it back. For God's sake, this is the easiest way to relieve all entrepreneurs! I've been to the tax office recently, where even the clerks came to me and said, for God's sake, do something about making it easier for us too, because the system is extremely complex for God's sake. Well, I don't know why anyone doesn't want to support it at this point. I mean, it's gonna make the state feel better, and it's gonna make the entrepreneurs feel better, and it's gonna make the farmers feel better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u49	Thank you. Another factual point - President Kováčik, then Mr Volný Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u50	Thank you for the floor. Madames and gentlemen, even my ears do not really want to believe that economic experts such as Mr Skopeček or Mr Stanjura, or agricultural experts such as Mrs Vrecionová, do not know the system which, in turn, also outside the European Union, is in support of agriculture. If we do not support farmers only in the Czech Republic because it is non-systemic, or because it is a distortion, that is what Kalousek claims, then farmers here will simply become extinct. Economically, it's going to be destroyed. We will destroy them economically if we do not support them. In that sense, I must say repeatedly that whoever did not support and continue to support yesterday's green diesel, and under any pretext of unsystematicness, twisting or distortion and so on, does not support agriculture and does not support the countryside. Just one last comment on Mr Ferjenčík through the President. Neither President Filip, President of the KSČM, nor I said a letter against the proposal in our speech. However, we are both in agreement, without agreeing, to attack the demagogy that begins in the debate - I admit it pre-chosenly - to evolve. So next time, I'm gonna ask you to listen a little bit more accurately. You're attacking us for something we didn't even say here. As far as the decisions of Members and Members are concerned, I do not know how they are with you, with us according to consciousness and conscience and not how someone voted on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u51	Thank you. Another factual point - Mr Volný Member and then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to make a comment on Mr Ferjenčík's involvement with you. And basically, Chairman Kováčik beat me to it a little bit. They once again confirmed that they just didn't listen. They've got their flaps, they've got something dictated and they're going forward. He thought I might have defended the Financial Administration here, but he's after the little ones and he's not paying attention to the big ones and he's letting them live. That's what you said, my colleague, isn't it? But I've done a lot of colorful work here, and I've detailed the businessman's case, which has been measured at 35 million tax defaults. You think he was a small businessman? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u53	Thank you. Now a point of fact - President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u54	So thanks to our colleagues from KSČM we have come from flat-rate businessmen to support agriculture. But why not, if someone's picking up. Yes, it is true that we are members of the European Union. But, in our view, the European Union's agricultural policy is flawed - flawed - and unfair. I have not noticed in the last five years that our government has been actively trying to change these rules in this area, which I consider to be wrong and unfair to the new Member States. That's right. When we criticize green oil, we do not say not to support Czech agriculture. We're just saying we should support it differently. One of the concepts and proposals was presented by my colleague Mr Skopeček - a tax reduction. That's support, too. So it's not about whether or not it is. If we are realistic politicians - and we are - and we have a European realistic policy, we know that we must try to make sure that we have the same conditions as in other countries. Let's talk about these tools. And we don't consider this instrument good. And that it is particularly complicated for small farmers and small farmers, we really believe that. So I would ask that we have this debate about forms of support, or the Czech national position, about trying to change the unfair rules against Czech agriculture - that is certainly true. But such negotiations do not lead anywhere to try, for example, to find a common Czech national position in agricultural European policy, and we have promoted it together at all levels, at every visit by colleagues from Western Europe, whether they are here or we are to them. That's what I keep reminding you of. We're ready for that. This is what we call for in the long term. So I would just ask that we have a debate on instruments, on how to make a fair competitive environment, and not say that someone is rejecting an instrument that, like us, considers bad that they do not want to support the sector as a whole. It's just not like that. And to Mr Volný, just a comment that came to my mind. If I were him, I wouldn't talk much about the commercials that are being applied and that don't make much sense, I wouldn't talk about them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u55	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Now, with the actual... We have added factual remarks, so Mr Klaus, then President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u56	Hello. The debate is on the move. Here, some of us are being accused of demagogy because we want to cut taxes. I think we can handle that. In my point of fact, I would rather respond to Mr Volný. To me, it seems slightly undignified on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies when we talk about material matters, tax cuts, arguing in a specific case that you will come and say: I know an entrepreneur who has probably stolen a lot. And that's supposed to be the argument? And you don't even name him. So come here, tell me what kind of person this is, when you're telling the truth, at least it'll be a little classy. But we should still have business. It's like you're defending the law here that they're not gonna sell cars, 'cause Řepka here sold a car to somebody wrong. That would be an argument that this is to prohibit the sale of vehicles. So I appeal, of course, to have a heated debate, that's the principle of the House, but let's just say the factual arguments that concern everyone, and let's not bring up the stories: I heard someone stealing over there, so that's why we're gonna act like this or this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u57	Thank you. Another point in fact, Mr Kováčik, is followed by Mr Jurečka's factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u58	Thank you. I'd like to turn against President Stanjura's statement a little bit. Although we have been as KSČM in opposition over the past five years, which was mentioned by President Stanjura, I have seen several important efforts by those who have acted for us in the Czech Republic for the Ministry of Agriculture in Brussels, for the last time very serious negotiations on how to correct the unfair approach of the European Commission, European agricultural policy towards the Czech Republic, when pushing the Czech Republic very strongly and very unchoicefully to the so-called "shooting" due to the size of the company. And it is no one's fault right now that they have kept the largest farms on average in the Czech Republic. They're more of an advantage. Please, that's one thing. I know that there is an unfair European agricultural policy towards new countries. But I have not noticed in my reply what my colleague Stanjura did not notice through the President that any of the right-wing governments, whether Germany or France, or the leaders of European agricultural policy, had tried to change this unfair system during their active activities, namely their governance, tried to prevent farmers from being subsidized throughout Europe. However, I have seen constant efforts to put so-called old countries at a disadvantage compared to the so-called new countries in the agricultural grant policy. I say and repeat that if they subsidize Germany, France, or the European Union, we must also subsidize. And if we're trying not to do anything, then this is a nonsystemic step leading to huge damage. It's not about right-wing politics, it's about common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u59	Mr Jurečka, then Mr Bláha. I'll ask my colleague and colleagues to remain calm in the hall. If you have anything to say, please, in the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u60	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, colleagues, the remaining members of the government that you are here. The President of the ODS Parliamentary Club mentioned here that over the last five years the Czech Republic and Czech ministers have done nothing to improve the position of farmers in the Czech Republic and equalise their relationship with the old Member States. I will take the liberty, as a minister here, who has been responsible for this for four years, to mention a few concrete steps that have succeeded regularly, or in the coming months, let's say the thing that should remove certain unequal elements will come to an end. On the one hand, I want to mention that the Czech Republic has been a leader in negotiations in the area for the last three years in order to simplify the common agricultural policy, which happened on 1 January this year under the Omnibus measure. Furthermore, we were the active ones who were dealing with the issue of double food quality and unfair business practices within the supply-customer relationship. We were the ones who brought the subject to the Council of Ministers' meeting repeatedly, and we managed to discuss it and force the European Commission to do so. Again, this is a matter which concerns, in particular, the new Member States of the Central European region, where these farmers are disadvantaged and affected by these things. So please don't say nicely that we haven't done anything about this thing. On the contrary, when I look at the activity of ministers, of my predecessors, when this resort had ODS for six years, I have not seen any of these active steps since my predecessors. And, of course, we have also tried to target small farmers within the framework of setting up our internal policy, when a special title was established for farmers up to 150 ha, who received unprecedented support. If I compare it, six years of ODS government, the aid for this segment of farmers was 235 million. CZK, over three years of the new programming period, which fell under me, the amount was higher than 1 billion. Crowns. Those are the facts. You can check them at any time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u61	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Bláha. Mr Blažek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u62	My serious colleagues, my colleagues, the debate has really started. I'm very happy for that, and I want to thank you for that, because I think it's important what we're doing today. If we are to discuss, then really what conditions we create for our entrepreneurs, because they are the ones who employ people, and they are the ones who create the economy. I'd sign up for a number of opinions. And there wasn't one. Most entrepreneurs would be happy if we didn't change anything at all if what was invented here remained in one plane as long as possible and didn't move it. That's why I'd like to ask you, let's meet at the same table, all of us who want to make a difference, who know it's not okay, how it's set up, let's talk things out, figure out, and then together change the whole system. Because we're still putting changes into the tax system in 30 years. Nobody knows about it, it doesn't bring anything to anyone, just confusion and more bureaucracy. I believe that together, we will find a way to simplify, humanize, visualize and take a stand and, above all, to be able to explain this well, demand and control it well. That's for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u63	Thank you. Another point in fact, Mr Blažek, then Mr Schwarzenberg.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u64	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I don't want to talk about taxes, but there's been a debate about the state authorities' progress lately. I'm gonna spread it a little bit. It's not just the financial authorities. I'm going to start by saying that these officials are not only influenced by the laws we make here, but especially by the atmosphere in society. And that atmosphere is very determined by politicians performing at various meetings, in the media, and so on. And what such an official has, and now I'm addressing Prime Minister Babiš, I don't know if he ever said the phrase "everything stolen" or didn't say it, but the bottom line is that the clerk, whatever the office is, especially the police officer and the financial office official, when the future prime minister, who has the support of a large part of the company, is logically creating a feeling that he has to catch someone, because certainly everyone else is the perpetrator, maybe everyone, and in them, I think, creates an unhealthy feeling that he simply and well must intervene, and everyone is suspicious at that moment. Well, that's one side of it. The other one, Mr. Babiš is no longer responsible, and it's longer than that. Let's put any official in this office who wants to sanction someone. Normal is, if I give some kind of penalty, I'll explain why I'm giving the penalty. That means, I have to write: someone committed a crime, and I'm giving you a penalty. It's the other way around with us. The clerk is afraid not to give a penalty, because he risks some kind of media dehonestation in a few years, that he may have known the person with whom he led the administrative proceedings, or worse, the wild authorities active in criminal proceedings are able to appear after years and say that if he did not give the fine, he has committed some obstruction of the enforcement of an administrative decision or some sabotage, and so on, of course, that is a problem. So let's also look at these officials as people who work in some kind of atmosphere and don't have it easy, and unfortunately society makes them think it's best not to decide. When I was looking at a new construction law that was being created here, I can see that the deadlines are still long. It's still because it's best not to decide. No risk, no sanctions, and maybe there's no wild Dr. Ištvan. That's it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u65	There. Your time - excellent. A point of fact - Mr Schwarzenberg. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u66	Mr President, honourable Members, I was very amused by the remark a few minutes ago, where my colleague complained that agricultural subsidies were less coming to us than other countries in the West. It is true, however, that there are still small peasants, good peasants and farmers west of us, but in our country we have become a great country. It is fun to see that before 1914 and long before the land reform, there were more medium and small farms than we have today. Today, subsidies go to large businesses - Agrofert and others. It is a condition that this situation will still be supported by EU subsidies. I must say, even my feudal ancestors have never dreamed of such an affair. If they had seized the largest arable land and were still paid from Europe for it! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u67	Good morning, honourable Members. My colleague Schwarzenberg kept time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, my colleague Marian Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u68	I understand that the point that we are discussing here is no longer the subject of this discussion, but Mr Karel Schwarzenberg - who is now leaving the Chamber - has said a few things here that I would like to respond to. [[at this point, he stops and listens]] Mr President, if you look at the establishment of the common agricultural policy since 2014, the first thing that is reflected there is degressivity for large farms. From 1 150 hectares in direct payments, large farmers are reduced and farms have been cut within LFA areas from 350 hectares above. It is a quarter billion crowns per year, which is further redistributed within the investment measures of the Rural Development Programme, especially for small and medium-sized farmers. Next thing I know, you're talking about only the big farms here, and the little farmers here are on the run. And now I speak like a man who came from a small private farm of his parents who built it in 1990, and I have a family farm at home myself. Over the last three years, more than a thousand young start-ups have been created here in the Czech Republic - if there were inappropriate conditions, there would probably not be more than a thousand - and they were supported by €45,000 for the start of business in the first five years. Furthermore, within direct payments, that is, the area payment, in turn, the small farmers have a bonified payment for part of the area of their hectares. So I just want to point out here that it's not that the state doesn't focus on the issue of small farmers starting with farmers, but that there are things that work and farmers use them. The fact that it is sometimes more administratively demanding and we could look for ways to simplify it, so it is definitely here for discussion. Thank you for listening to me, Mr. Ambassador. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now with Mrs. Finance Secretary's priority right, Alena Schillerová. Before he takes the floor, I will make an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, by the end of the week from today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I'm not gonna defend my argument, I've said it here several times in all the readings, so I'm just gonna adjust and correct some things, and then I'm gonna go back to some pretty serious statements that have been made here. First of all, Mr. Mr. Skopečka, to you. You were talking about a study that deals with companies, not individuals. So let's be correct, so I'll take the liberty of adjusting it. I've been involved since I was Deputy Minister for Taxation and Customs, a study called. doing business, published by the World Bank, where there was a very significant one - she follows administrative demands, but not with individuals. She's watching her with medium-sized companies without foreign participation. Roughly a model company is about 60 employees, manufactures, I don't know, ceramics and has no foreign participation. There it is monitored and evaluated by external companies and there I watched it very carefully. For your information, today we are in a better position with administrative difficulty than Slovakia and we are compared to Germany. But it's not about individuals again. So it's not usable, this argument, for businessmen. I would like to say that I consider spending flats, and I stress that we have no intention of doing anything with them, so they support low-cost entrepreneurs or those who are able to set aside some higher costs outside the taxation of individuals. That means they're creating some sort of selective exception here, they're the highest in Central Europe, and by moving it to the ceiling of two million, we're basically just going to deepen that exception. And now for other things. Municipal elections are coming up, so it's clear that we have hedge orders in the game again. I'm used to it, so I'm used to it, and I'm ready to talk out of my head at any time. Security orders have been in the law since 1993 - even cancelled. The 2011 Tax Code took over. I would like to remind myself of the state in which the former government, in which the YES movement and finance minister Andrej Babiš had already taken over the state of public finances. We had a VAT Gap of 70 billion. According to the Czech Statistical Office, we had an estimate of tax evasion on direct taxes of about 130 billion. This means that this country absolutely lacked systemic measures. Systemic measures to serve, of course, to combat tax evasion, but especially to help honest ones who were desperate. Therefore, such support for EET, which I will of course declare also when discussing the amendment to the Sales Recording Act. The freezing order is an extreme solution, an extreme instrument, which is why the Financial Administration uses it on such a limited scale. At the time I was Deputy Minister of Taxation and Customs, of course, we paid our utmost attention to the significant shift in the Supreme Administrative Court case-law, which was reflected in the methodology adopted by the Financial Administration in autumn or sometime at the turn of last year. Even in the media, I would like to quote the head of the tax section or the tax department of the Chamber of Tax Advisors, Mr. . Hajdušek, who said that after the publication of this methodology these excesses essentially disappeared. Excesses of the type that the Financial Administration, although legally issued a hedge order, immediately removed the property of a living company, which, of course, had some consequences that led to cases you know. I would like to - and he doesn't sit here President Kalousek, which I am very sorry, but I would like to ask him and ask him this through, maybe he's watching me on the screen, thinking that the Finance Minister is running the Financial Administration. Does he have this experience of his own from when he was Minister of Finance? Because I'm governed by the law, the jurisdictional law on Financial Administration, and I can't interfere with the internal processes of Financial Administration, I can't interfere with the controls. I can influence the methodology, of course I am actively doing this in the sense that we are debating the conclusions and interpretations of legislation, but that is all I can do as Secretary of Finance. So if he had another experience, I certainly don't have one. [[10.40 hours]] At the same time, I would like to say that we have a law on compensation for damage caused by maladministration or by an incorrect decision by the public authorities. So if the injustice has happened - such cases are discussed across the public administration x, then let this law be dealt with, or the court will decide. This, of course, has regressive effects on individual workers. But let's not throw 16.5,000 of my former colleagues in the Financial Administration into one bag. These people work. They're mostly heartbreakers. They fill out a number of tax returns during the period, help people who do not know, advise etc. And they do their job well for most of the time. So please, let's make a difference. And believe me, within my responsibilities, I can make order in my own department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u71	Thank you, Minister of Finance of the Czech Government Alena Schillerová. Now two factual points. A colleague of Skopeček and a colleague of Stanjura. First of all, a colleague of Mr. Skopeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u72	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond to the Minister. If we listened more, maybe we wouldn't have to respond to each other so many times. But, Madam Secretary, I specifically mentioned in my contribution that I am giving the dates of intensity or the number of hours that companies need to fulfill or fulfil tax obligations. I explicitly mentioned it in the argument that this is the calculation for the payment of corporate taxes. Respectfully, not only corporate taxes, but the taxes that companies face. However, I derive from this, and I think I am not doing this wrong, that if we have one of the most complex tax systems for companies, we also have one of the most complex tax systems for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and businessmen. It is not true that if we are dealing with corporate taxes or taxes that companies face in 26th place out of 32 examined that we will be the first, second, third, fourth, to the first ten. So I would ask you if you really think that while we're doing so poorly on average with corporate taxes, we're doing very well with businessmen and they have a very simple tax environment. One of the best in the countries under review. I'd like to ask you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Stanjura's point of order now. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u74	I asked the Minister what the personal consequences of the illegal decisions of the Financial Administration were. It is quite clear that the illegal decisions are made by individuals and not 16,000 employees of the Financial Administration. She's such a popular political figure, and the secretary already knows her brilliantly. She's disproved something no one's saying. I don't know if anyone asked you, but we as citizens' democrats certainly didn't want you to interfere with the particular case of individual taxpayers. It's possible. But you have one duty of personnel, authority, you have. The Financial Administration has someone in charge. And you can initiate the exchange of the Chief of Financial Administration. Who else has political responsibility for the illegal decisions of the Financial Administration? Who else? After all, it was the Financial Administration under the leadership of an existing director who - I already said it once on the Committee on Budgets. Do you know what the Director General of the Financial Administration called a control event for small and small entrepreneurs? Kombajn! Kombajn. That's what I think he says. And what the secretary said. Yes, tax officials, many of them, are helping taxpayers, and it is the right thing to do, because taxpayers pay themselves. Let's not appreciate someone doing the job... Or appreciate it, but it's normal. Taxpayers pay the public administration as a whole, including the Financial Administration, and it is right if the employees of the Financial Office... I know it happens a lot, not a lot. That's from the attitude, because a very popular sentence, and you know it yourself - we can't advise you, because we're going to make that decision. Now I'm not talking about what to write in which box. And when someone asks a question, someone who doesn't have tax advisors and doesn't have economists. But it's okay. So let's talk about a specific problem. The illegal decisions of the Financial Administration have nothing to do with municipal elections at all. It has to do with the point. I don't know how municipal elections could affect hedge orders.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u75	Mr President, the time for a point of fact has ended. Thank you. We have now exhausted the debate. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. It's not like that. I can end the debate. And the final words of the plaintiffs' representative - Mr Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the final words, I will try to refocus your attention on the point that we are discussing, which aims to return reduced limits for applying spending flats to income for self-employed people to the level of CZK 2 million. Gros of this proposal is that it is about facilitating the lives of those who earn their own money. That's the basis of our proposal. It's about reducing the administrative burden. I can understand the hard efforts of the Minister of Finance to defend every tenth of the revenue of the state budget. However, decision-making on the economy of the State cannot only be from the net accounting point of view of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget, but also from the macro- and micro-economic impacts as well as from the conditions for economic development and for entrepreneurship. That money isn't going anywhere in the economy. On the contrary. These people will use them to develop their business, invest them and consume them. We're not talking about the fact that a businessman like that, if he takes advantage of this option, will have a zero or a negative tax obligation. On the contrary, people with income between CZK 1 million and CZK 2 million will always pay a positive tax in the system of flat-rate spending, and the state therefore has its own. We're talking about people who make their own money. Self-employed persons. And when the times come, when they come, for example. Economic recession and stagnation, so we will be happy for every person who can take care of himself and contribute to the social system and also to the state budget. We should respect and support such people, not throwing sticks under their feet and making it difficult for them to do business, which led to a reduction in the spending limit. The Minister repeatedly distributes entrepreneurs to those with low added value and high added value, that is, with lower costs. The IT specialists, the architects, the top doctors. I think we need to support all the groups of entrepreneurs who are trying to earn their own money. Abroad, as I have already said here in the debate, these top-class sectors offer higher incomes. What do we offer them as a state? What can we have as a competitive advantage? Can't we offer them a simple business with simple terms? Because that's what spending flats are all about. About simple conditions and simple business. I know a lot of small craftsmen and self-employed people who want to do business don't want to be employees, but they hate paperwork. Do we want to let them work in peace? Because this proposal leads us to let them work in peace. That's why I'm asking for his support. Why not want them to be able to use the possibility of tax spending flats? So that their time, which is really the most important means of production that they need to get a job and work as such, to work for others, to work for us and not to deal with the tax administration. Because that is what we are deciding today in this proposal. It is about reducing bureaucracy, reducing administrative burdens and helping people, those who take care of themselves. The state shouldn't be here for every businessman to scrape every man's skin off and burden him with pointless bureaucracy and throw a stick at him. For example, punishment for independence. As punishment for his success. Punishment for success. On the contrary, we need to respect those people who really can and do not need much from the state, such people across the political spectrum. Let me sum up what spending flats bring us. The state always collects a positive tax on these people between one and two million crowns. Not to mention they pay social and health insurance. Second, the system of flat-rate spending does not force tax optimizations. Revenue shall be recognised, the costs shall be deducted as a percentage and the tax shall be paid from the rest. Simple, efficient, clean, even for control by state authorities. Self-employed people can devote their time and energy to fully developing their business and activities for others, not bureaucracy. So this reduces bureaucracy. All at a price that doesn't reach a tenth of the revenue of the state budget. [[10.50 hours]] Not by chance this system, spending flats, has long been defended by professional associations of entrepreneurs headed by the Chamber of Commerce. And I beg you, let us meet these professional unions and the Chamber of Commerce. I really ask for support across the political spectrum from communists, Social Democrats, YES, SPD, Pirates, STAN, TOP 09 and the People's Party. Because this proposal is good. He's good at not favoring any groups at the expense of others. He's good at not harming anyone. It is also good that it does not impose new obligations on anyone but reduces them. It is a proposal that the state almost does not feel, and there are few such proposals. That's why I'm begging you for generosity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u77	I thank Mr Vojtěch Munzar for the final word. I'll ask the rapporteur's final word... [[He calls on the rapporteur of Mr Pošvár, who is not interested in the final word.]] So if you do not have the final word, we can address the proposals that are to be put to the vote. The first proposal, Mr rapporteur, is a motion for rejection. Isn't that right? [[Yes.]] In that case, I'll go for it. Those who have discussed in the foyer will certainly be happy to come to the vote. The first proposal is a motion for rejection, which fell at second reading. That's what we're gonna decide in vote number 36. I'll check you all out just in case. Please log in with your ID cards. The number of applicants has stabilized, so I can begin voting number 36. I'm asking who's in favour of rejecting the bill. Who's against it? Thank you. It's serial number 36. From the presence of 178, for 86, against 83. The motion was not accepted. [[Let's hear it from the right side of the hall.]] I therefore ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u78	Thank you for the floor. The procedure is very simple. First, we should deal with legislative technical regulation, that is the effectiveness, and then a straight vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-001-105.u79	Okay. So the first vote is about legislative technical change. Does anyone want to vote on the procedure when it's that simple? No need in my opinion. We will vote on the proposal for a legislative technical amendment. In the '37 vote I started, I ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. It's vote number 37. Of the 179, for 124, against 2. The motion was accepted. We will therefore now vote on the bill as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Vojtěch Munzar, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, according to the House of Press 77, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies'. I've started voting number 38 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. It's serial number 38. From the presence of 178, for 83, against 77. The motion was not accepted. I am of the opinion that no consent has been given to the bill. I thank the appellants, thank the rapporteur, and end with point 105. Let's continue with the point.
