ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u1	76. Multi-annual EU financial framework 2021 - 2027 /German press 227-E/ - first reading We interrupted the debate on this point on Thursday, September 13, in the general debate. I recall that the Committee on European Affairs discussed the Commission communication, the proposal for a Council regulation, and initiated its inclusion at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. The resolution, the opinion of the committee and the motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies are part of the 227-E press. At the rapporteur's table, Mr Adam Kalous and Minister Schillerová took the position of committee rapporteur. We will continue with the interrupted general debate. On Thursday, 13 September, we interrupted this point at the moment when Mrs Langšádlová was to speak, so she will be the first to speak today in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u2	Good morning. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Please allow my fellow Members to comment on the issue of the multiannual financial framework. There is no doubt that this must reflect the EU's objectives and priorities. It is so that the European Union, the project is from the very beginning a project on the road and a project that is evolving and, of course, must also respond to the changed situation both within the Member States and around us. When we look at the various chapters of the budget presented to us for the programming period 2021-2027, we have the single market, innovation and the digital economy first. It is indisputable that this area is extremely important for the Czech Republic, because it is the Czech Republic, which is absolutely dependent on exports, for the most part on exports to EU countries. That is why I consider that this area is still strongly supported from the EU budget, and for us it is very important, because if the single market is not developed, it will also have a major impact on the growth of our economy, but also on the development of jobs for the future, when we may not be at the top of the economic cycle. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] Next, we have a point of competitiveness. 15 per cent of the budget goes into competitiveness according to this proposal. I think that we must all be aware that the EU is one of the richest parts of the world today. It's 500 million people who live in the richest and most stable part of the world, and I think it's very good that we belong to this club. On the other hand, economic growth, but also the population in other parts of the world, such as China, India and the United States, is so dynamic that the EU must continue to cooperate and must continue to conclude trade agreements, as has recently been done, for example, with Canada or with South Korea. And I think -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u3	Madam, I am sorry, but it is not really the conditions for you to continue. I would ask that the discussion groups dissolve and that we be able to discuss this point. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u4	And I think it is also in our interest to be competitive as the EU, competitive with those large units that I mentioned, as I said - China, India, the United States and others. Because if European countries do not continue the project, they will not cooperate more, so will the individual states, as well as the large states that we see as significant within Europe, such as Germany or France, have no chance to compete in this global world. The next item is the question of cohesion and values. Yes, it is true that from the very beginning of the EU, the project is not only economic but also political. That's reality. And I am even convinced that it cannot be otherwise, that such a large project simply has a political dimension. If today, and in this preamble, it says that solidarity is one of the values in different ways, it is solidarity that is reflected in the economic framework, too, by supporting the poorest and weakest regions within Europe, so that cohesion is maintained, we often encounter the concept of cohesion, and therefore regional development takes 34 percent. And I think that in the last 14 years, when we are members of the EU, and we see it every step of the way, we have built a lot of things and brought the level of life in the Czech Republic closer to the old Member States thanks to the very means that come from the EU. Of course, there are other areas, such as natural resources and the environment. I don't think any of us will doubt that this is an area that we should be dealing with together, that the wind that blows here, the atmosphere we have here, doesn't know the boundaries. Nor does it know the boundaries of water that flows through Europe, and even there I believe that there should be a common approach, joint support and joint resolution of problems, because, for example, lack or purity of water, clean air, yes, all these issues must be dealt with together. There is no doubt that there is also a very sensitive issue of the common agricultural policy in this block, there is no doubt that this issue will be very sensitive in our country precisely because, in the EU, both in the area of business, for example in trade, services or industry, especially small and medium-sized companies are supported, so, of course, in agriculture. I understand that this is a very sensitive issue on the Czech political scene. Another area supported by €35 billion is migration and border management. This is a topic that we often talk about here, and there are concrete steps that have already been taken. And I think it is a very good way for this to be dealt with largely at European level. It has also been said from the Prime Minister's mouth several times that individual Member States should deal with this, that the money that goes to Frontex, the common coastal and border guard, is a lot. What it looks like when individual Member States do it, we could see this in the area of Greece in particular at the time of the migration crisis. No, I believe that there should be common money and their use, efficient use and efficient use, all states should also check together. That is why I think that the project where 10,000 people are supposed to be guarding the common border of Schengen is correct. Yes, national components play a role there, they must be part of the project, but if our money is there, we and the other Member States should be in control that our colleagues will really control the common border. Certainly another chapter is a chapter on security and defence, where an increase is proposed, strengthening within this chapter to EUR 23 billion. Yes, it is clear that security has become one of the main topics in Europe, and it is clear that we will not move forward without cooperation again. It is therefore very good that Europol is strengthening, it is very good that security issues are strengthening, and it is very good that the EU is also taking action in the military field, in full cooperation with the North Atlantic Alliance today. What is certainly the weak side of the EU is that individual Member States have their own systems, that we do little cooperation, that we invest little together in science and research, and that is why I think that the creation of a European defence fund is a great opportunity for us to be stronger and to be able to participate more in our own defence, and at the same time the creation of this defence fund is a great opportunity for our companies, which have many great experience in this area. Neighborhood and the world. It's like this part of the multi-annual financial framework document is extra. Some might say, even in connection with yesterday's debate, it does not concern us. But I believe that what is happening around us will increasingly concern us, and more and more about what is happening especially on the very near African continent. We cannot close our eyes to the fact that there is a continent on which more than one billion people live, who are, on average, about 20 times poorer than we are. It is quite clear that it is in our life's interest to have a safe environment, whether it concerns the countries of the Western Balkans or the Eastern Partnership. That is why I think it is very good that we are also set aside for this, that there are also funds for pre-accession funds for the countries of the Western Balkans that are preparing for accession to the EU, it is very good that we develop the conditions for trade with African countries, but it is also very good that we open up the issue of opening up the market, because it is really long-term unsustainable to provide development aid that is not always properly used, and at the same time very much to protect our own market and then create the great imbalance between levels in Europe and the surrounding areas. I think that all the areas mentioned in the multiannual financial framework are areas that we should deal with together within the European Union, because it is also in our interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u5	Thank you, Madame. Next in the general debate will be Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Válek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u6	Thank you for the floor. First of all, my esteemed colleagues, I would like to commend that, in the financial framework, there is a significant increase in funding for the Erasmus programme, which I consider to be one of the most useful things that the EU has initiated. I think that young people traveling around Europe, studying there, learning languages, is a great asset to this country, and I am glad that the financial framework is counting on it and is increasing this chapter strongly. The second issue on which we propose a resolution. We feel quite negatively that our government is fighting against the reduction of agricultural subsidies, we do not think that this is the right approach. We think our agriculture is about to transform. And unfortunately, our government is in a different position. We think that agricultural subsidies need to be reformed, we need to reduce the field in relation to the fight against drought, to make land adjustments, and for this reason we will propose a resolution that the House supports the reduction of payments to large entrepreneurs within the framework of the multiannual financing of the European budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another in the debate is Mr Válek, who is not here, so he cannot speak. Mr Skopeček will now be speaking in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u8	Thank you for the floor. I won't be long this time, because I've already performed on the previous day of the hearing. However, we are talking about the budget. I would like to point out once again that it is necessary to say that the European Union, although leaving Britain, wants to address, above all, a revenue gap estimated at up to 10-11 billion. The euro, and it wants to address it with its own income. I would like to draw your attention to this once again that, as part of the discussion of the new EU fiscal framework, it is considering its own taxes. The Minister will certainly confirm to me that there is a very intense debate on the harmonisation of the common basis of corporate tax, which is to become one of the sources of the EU's own resources. I would like to say that, in Germany, there are also proposals on the part of social democracy for this to be accompanied by harmonisation of the minimum corporate tax rate, which would dramatically damage the Czech economy, damage our competitiveness, damage our companies, because considering that our rate is at 19 percent, this is below the average rates used in the EU or which are being imposed in the EU. I will just mention that there are countries with rates above 30%, Malta the most, France the second as well, but Germany also has a significantly higher corporate tax rate. This is a matter, it is Pandořin's box, which, if opened, can have dramatic consequences for the Czech Republic. No matter what happens to the fiscal framework, if it gets bigger, smaller, it will have more revenue, more spending on one or the other area, so if we allow this thing to be opened up, I think in the years to come we're going to have a totally crazy fight to keep our companies competitive. The European Union's own revenue in the budget, the EU wants to increase the share of its own revenue, it does not just want to be dependent on the share that Member States pay on the basis of gross national income, so the problem is not only in common taxes, but also, in my view, it is a problem to use the money from the sale of emission allowances, because it is nothing more than in my view a stupid struggle with climate change to tax our industrial enterprises even more. So if this were the real black scenario, our companies would have increased their tax burden due to tax harmonisation, and industrial companies would have been affected by costs that would have been linked to the taxation of emissions. I think that the EU has not taken advantage of the opportunity after the shock experienced in Britain's departure, or the decision of British citizens to leave, to think about why the Brit, for example, did so. I have mentioned here that I very much like the Austrian Presidency's motto, which I probably do not quote accurately, but it means less and more effectively. Unfortunately, this does not reflect the fiscal framework at all, but it takes advantage of Britain's leaving, and the EU is pushing Member States not only to level out the revenue gap, but also to increase the resources that the EU wants to use. Let me just remind you - Mrs. Langšádlová said a lot of priorities here. One of the other priorities that the EU wants to pay is the Defence Fund. In my opinion, this has to do with the ambition of European politicians to form a European army. I would like to remind you that European states dominant, which belong, of course, to the North Atlantic Alliance, should be taken by the nose, that they are not even now able to pay our allies what they have committed to in this treaty, and in this case they still want to build their own army, their own defense fund, which will certainly cost more money, which we do not even have today, to those commitments that we have committed and many European states have committed in the past in connection with the North Atlantic Alliance. Another thing, I mentioned it here, of course it will be due to the fact that the money will be less thanks to Britain, so, of course, the fight for money, who will be a net payer, will be a net recipient. It can happen very quickly that the Czech Republic, by leaving one of the richest members, will on average become the richer state and become the net payer instead of the net recipients. This too needs to be mentioned and prepared to prepare our public budgets and institutions that depend on European money. This is also something that we should discuss when discussing the fiscal pact. For me, it is precisely in connection with the distribution of money that the principle that drawing money will be subject to compliance with the principles of the rule of law. In my opinion, the salami method is once again being discussed by punishing some states, especially those from Central and Eastern Europe, which will not always nod to everything that comes from Brussels, and all the policies that the EU is inventing, so that it has the chance and the instrument to punish those states, so that this condition of fulfilling the principles of the rule of law is just mentioned in the discussion of the fiscal framework. I'm very warning about it. I understand that, and it is normal for the EU to have instruments for states that would dramatically start to violate the fundamental treaties and fundamental principles of the EU, so certainly any club that the EU is, should have principles and rules on how to deal with such sinners, but it is not possible to punish states by this salami method just for having a little different positions, by cutting money from the cohesion funds that, after all, are, and let's face it, it is not some kind of charity of the old EU Member States, it is money that is being distributed in Europe on the basis of clear rules, to help less developed regions to converge on the more advanced ones, and it has not been for free. We must point out that while those less advanced EU countries, especially from Central and Eastern Europe, accept these subsidies, on the other hand, but for this, the old Member States, after the fall of communism and during a very difficult and demanding economic transformation, have opened up their markets very quickly for much more advanced companies, which could immediately deliver their goods here, and the funds are a price to pay for opening up our markets to these old European countries. For them, it was an influential advantage, an influential expansion of the market, where they could send their products, and without a doubt they made more than they send as clean payers of Central and Eastern Europe. So let's stop, let's stop looking at the European funds with just the optics that we should just be grateful that it's some kind of charity from the EU, it's not. The countries of Central and Eastern Europe have been very helpful to the economies of the old Member States when they opened their markets after 1989. [[11.50 hours]] I cannot generally agree with the multiannual financial framework because, in my view, the EU should spend less than it has spent in the past, especially after Britain has left. The EU should have used this period to transform in my opinion socialist agricultural policy. It is not the structural solution of the common agricultural policy, which, in my view, is indeed more than socialist and costs a lot of money, perverts the market and reduces the efficiency of the entire European economy. So I'd just sum up one of my biggest reservations. And I believe that we will also get to the vote on the various resolutions that come from the Committee on European Affairs, and that we will also deal with what fell into this debate in those previous negotiating days when we talked about this, and that was the debate on Hungary, if you remember. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u9	Thank you. Gentlemen of Ferjenčík, Peksa and Dolejš will respond with factual remarks in this order. Mr Ferjenčík and his factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u10	Thank you for the floor. I must fundamentally disagree with my previous speaker on the common tax base of legal entities. I agree that it should not be above the level of the current taxation of legal entities in the Czech Republic, but, on the contrary, it is absolutely necessary to reconcile the business environment within the EU. It is simply not acceptable that Czech entrepreneurs compete with those who do not pay corporate taxes at all. It's typical of those digital services where Facebook just pays a fraction of the taxes against our List. Similarly, it is unacceptable that there are tax havens within the EU, through which taxes actually escape from the Czech Republic, because they move their headquarters on purpose, because only a seat within the EU guarantees access to the market. So, on the contrary, we strongly support the common basis for corporate tax. This is, of course, for discussion, whether it is the EU's income or the national states'. However, the very principle that some states, such as Ireland or Luxembourg, would reduce taxes and drain corporate taxes from all over the EU, is simply wrong for us. It is a complete race to the bottom, because in life the whole EU cannot maintain balanced budgets and compete with Ireland, which also makes special exceptions for large companies that have an intervention throughout the European market. So here, on the contrary, I completely disagree with the ODS position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u11	With another factual remark, Mr Peksa. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u12	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Once again, I would like to respond, through Mr President, to my colleague Skopeček. Here again, there were such, I would say, great inaccuracies. First of all, it must be noted that around 30 percent of our defence budgets fly out the window within the EU, because each country buys different equipment. Our armies are not aligned and we are unable to cooperate effectively. The fact that we want to spend money effectively in defence does not conflict with our commitments to NATO. We just have to spend the money efficiently, and we have to work together. That's the first thing. Second thing. I'm really, really sorry that the ODS is fighting against the rule of law here. The payment of subsidies must be based on a stable and functional legal environment. It is not possible for the Member States to distort the rule of law, so that the subsidies are abused. In the end, these subsidies are always paid out of our money and it is simply not acceptable for them to be stolen. If anyone in ODS doesn't like it, I'm sorry, but I just completely disagree with that attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u13	Thank you. Mr Dolejš and his factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u14	I just have a little thing, I hope I don't delay. But if you have noticed what this point is called, we are discussing the position of government on a multiannual financial framework that will still be discussed. So, in order not to, as they say, aim for the fox, hit Maryška's face. The motion for a resolution is a little different. We do not agree with the financial framework. We acknowledge the government's position as it is now. She can still evolve. The government position is defined in the background, in the material, as relatively critical. This is reflected in the second comment I had, for example, that the government. they do not want European resources. So we can vote on this and support this kind of resolution. And the last point is, if we're talking about some of these tax harmonisation options. For example, I came back yesterday from the interinstitutional negotiations on this subject, where Commissioner Pierre Moscovici also spoke on this subject. And the EU is far from ready with regard to the joint tax base project. The minimum rate, maybe some socialists are talking, but it's a very marginal discussion so far, so I wouldn't be scared at this stage. What scares me more is that this old fiscal pact, which is already running and which, by the way, is a part of European law long ago through the so-called. Six-pack, a package of European regulations, does not work very well. And we talked at that conference about the need to look for other ways and more comprehensive tools that would really distance Europe a little bit more from the debt crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u15	Mr Skopeček's factual remark will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u16	Then I will respond to my previous speakers from the Pirates Club. Of course, I'm not calling for any subsidy break-ins. I would also like to ask Mr Peksa, through the President, whether he feels that there are no instruments today to punish those who are robbing subsidies. Don't those who don't spend money on the terms of the programmes now refund the European budget with a penalty? Aren't the condemned people who cheated on European subsidies? This is a completely different debate from whether European funds are to be conditioned to meet any political criteria from individual Member States. Even today, and we see it in reality, there are cases where justice and the European institutions have tools and use them to punish and affect beneficiaries of subsidies that have cheated or committed criminal activity. So Mr. Peksa's remark is completely out of order. As for the others. Well, I understand. Pirates simply want a superstate from the EU. I wish the EU to be a community of sovereign states. That's why I don't want a common army, which is why I don't want common harmonised taxes. Pirates want to eliminate national states, they want to turn the EU into a superstate, so they want common European taxes and a common European army. It's a legitimate difference of opinion, say it hard. The fact that tax havens exist today will not solve any regulation at EU level, because those European havens will exist in other parts of the world and those companies that want to use them will move there. If you look at why a number of companies are going to the Netherlands, it is not because there are lower taxes in the Netherlands, but because there is much faster enforcement of law. It's completely different from what you've been talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u17	Thank you. Mr. Stanjura's point of fact. After that, with a factual remark from Mr Peksa and Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u18	So Mr Peksa can respond to me, I will respond to what he said. If we want to fight European subsidies, let us reduce the volume. Let's lower the volume, that's the best. If there aren't any, there won't be any problems in subsidies. Our long-term goal is to eliminate subsidies, whether national, that is in our hands, or those in Europe, in agreement with our partners. Of course, it cannot be that we are the only ones not taking European money, the others are. But if we take simple math, we take our annual contribution, and then what we draw, then why couldn't that European money just be the difference? Half the problems would go away, half the projects would go away. We simply send money in by command and then administer it in European funds. It has no logic if we are clean recipients. So let us talk to our partners in the European Union, and we will reduce it by that, and the volume would be just the difference. There's some logic to that. It's not like I'm gonna send a hundred crowns and then I'm doing eight projects on the 100 crowns, which employs both the applicants, the control systems, and that's where the iniquities you're talking about arise. And don't say anything so outragely that we don't mind something being stolen. Don't say such an outrage because it's not true. Mr Peksa is a rather young Member of the service, I point out - but he has already adopted the old political trick that I object to something my political opponent has not said. Then when we say it, criticize us for it. We think the opposite, and the way is to reduce the amount of subsidies at all levels of public administration. The fewer the subsidies, the fewer possible frauds, the thieves, etc. And let's not say, on the other hand, that all the projects are bad, tinkled, and I don't know what other adjectives I would add to that. That's just not true. But if we reduce the volume of subsidies, the ideal is zero, then no problems will arise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u19	Thank you. I wish you a nice noon and another one is signed up with a factual remark by Mr Peksa and will be prepared by Mr Ferjenčík. Well, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes. And in the meantime, I'll read two apologies. Mr Petr Třešňák apologizes today between 12 and 13 o'clock for work reasons, and Mr Fridrich apologises for the negotiations from 14.30 to the end of the day. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u20	Thank you. Mr Skopečka, Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, I will be short, I am just quoting a note from Judith S Sargentiniová report on the rule of law in Hungary: "In 2017, OLAF identified serious irregularities and conflicts of interest in investigating 35 public contracts for street lighting assigned to a company owned by the Prime Minister's son-in-law." That's how it works, please. And when we talked about Viktor Orbán, you could have gone crazy because that's what you're covering for. That's exactly the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u21	děkovat you and next in line, Mr Ferjenčík. Please. And Mr Pavel Juříček will be prepared, we are still in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u22	Thank you for the floor. Two notes. Firstly, the European subsidy control system is set up completely pointless, because if someone discovers iniquities within that Member State, that Member State will lose the money, which is totally demotivative, for example. for the representatives of the authorities of the opposition, to draw attention to fraud in European subsidies that are happening to them, because then the city must return the money and pay it back from its own. That's an absurd control system. So let's not say that the control system works somehow. Second thing. As far as tax havens are concerned, there is, of course, a huge difference between tax havens within the European Union and outside the European Union, because entities located in tax havens within the European Union automatically have access to our market, which does not apply to entities located in tax havens outside the European Union. That means that while for those who live in Ireland and do business here, we guarantee them they can do business here, and when they're based in Panama, we don't guarantee it. That's a huge difference. And it's a huge problem when Facebook simply competes with the List, while the List pays some relevant taxes, so Facebook here doesn't pay any taxes. That's a huge problem. And we're not even talking about whether we want a superstate or not. For example, I do not want any European superstate, but I want that, if we have a common market, corporate taxes are set fairly across the European Union, so that our companies, which compete in this common market for example with those companies from Ireland, do not have unequal conditions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u23	So that was Mr. Ferjenčík. I will now ask for a speech with Mr Pavel Juříček's de facto Member and be prepared by Zbyněk Stanjura. Ambassador, please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u24	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I just want to tell you that some time ago, about three years ago, we did an analysis on the Confederation of Industry, what is the price difference within subsidies and what is the price level when it is not a subsidy, but it is a common selection procedure within companies. The difference in the European Union's grant policy was that the price is 41 per cent higher than when the selection procedures are done by the companies themselves. In other words, I support the opinion of my colleague Zbyněk Stanjura here through Mr President, because I think, of course, much less. And if companies today have 25 percent "sleev" or 25 percent "sleev" in their new grant program. 25 per cent grant, so if the price difference is 41 per cent, then no company will go into such grant policies at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u25	Thank you. So I will now ask for the speech of the President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura and Mr Jan Skopeček will prepare himself. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u26	Allow me to respond to the appearance of two colleagues on the pirate side. We're not even covering for Viktor Orbán, and now I don't know if you said father-in-law or son-in-law, I'm not quite sure, so I'm sorry. Son-in-law, not even his son-in-law. First of all. I don't know how the ODS would do that, I don't know. But we don't agree with the trial against Hungary, not Viktor Orbán. It is governance with a sovereign state, and we believe that it has a political subtext and that it is used in a political struggle to add, on some issues, Poland, Hungary, or the Czech Republic, and to change its national position on some of the issues that the European Union is dealing with. First of all. And a colleague of Ferjenčík. Try listening sometimes to Members, especially to the left, from Germany and France, who are talking about the Czech Republic and Central Europe's tax dumping. You're saying the exact same thing about Ireland. You just moved it somewhere else. They would like to have a rate, they say: unfair competition from the Czech Republic, they have low taxes. [[unintelligible]] And if we want to have fun, maybe it belongs to the Committee on Budgets, much more important than the corporate tax rate is what is included in the tax base. That's the key. That is why such a dangerous debate on a common tax base is so that losses from one country can be counted on the profits of another country. Then those foreign companies aren't gonna pay anything at all and they're gonna pay corporate taxes somewhere else. That's why it's so dangerous. And not if I have 19, 20 or 18. This is much less important than stability, simple taxes, a clear system, enforcement of law and, in particular, the tax base. Anyone who's compiled a tax return knows that it's more important what I can count on and what I can't do, and if it's a percentage more or less - not that it's an uninteresting debate - but it's not nearly as important as the tax base.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u27	That was Mr Stanjura, so I will now ask for Mr Jan Skopeček's speech and the Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala, to prepare himself. I will only read one apology - Mr Lukáš Černohorský apologizes today between 11.30 and 19 o'clock due to negotiations. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u28	Thank you for the floor. I will also respond to my pirate colleagues. The colleague here has read a sentence from a European document. He quoted the words of OLAF. So there is already a European institution in Hungary today that can detect any fraud or any unfair use of European money, and it is likely that the European Union has instruments today and will use them to make sure that such a subsidy, such as a son-in-law, or it doesn't matter who in Hungary, in which relation with the current prime minister, has exhausted it, so they will probably have to return it to the European budget, and with sanctions. So it already works today, we already have the tools, so it makes no sense to think at all about why to make the payments of European funds that are created here and operating on completely different principles and for completely different reasons than to be used to sanction states if they are doing some policy that does not exactly like the current mainstream of the European Union. When it comes to harmonisation and competition of taxes, say it, dear pirates, openly. You simply want higher taxes in the Czech Republic. Because when we harmonise within the European Union, we will harmonise upwards, because on average old, richer Member States impose higher taxes. Then say it openly that you want higher taxes for our companies, for our citizens, that you want to aim higher harmonisation to pay higher taxes, as is the case in France, Germany and other states. I was talking about the rates here. [[12.10 hours]] Let us just ask ourselves what has made the European Union as a continent so successful in the last few centuries. You think it was for harmonisation? No, it was because of the competition. Because of the fact that each region, each state offered some competitive advantage. And we cannot afford to have the same taxes at present as Germany with its large market and its advanced legal environment. We simply have to compete with something other than what we can achieve than what we have worse than the old Member States. You want to damage us dramatically.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u29	Time, yes. Now Vice-President of the House Petr Fiala and Mr Petr Třešňák will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u30	vážený President. I am responding to Mr Peksa's speech and other members of the Pirates' Club. By your means, Mr President, I appeal to Mr Peksa to tell him the following. We can have really different opinions, different views on how taxes are to be set, how subsidies are to be controlled, how certain procedures within the European Union are to be followed. And it's gonna be a legitimate debate. And it will be an absolutely acceptable debate within the framework of democratic political culture, and we will be happy to lead it. But for the Civil Democratic Party, I must very much turn against the method of argument you used. If we have a different view of these things, then you simply cannot accuse us of covering up fraud, approving criminal acts, creating room for abuse of subsidies and similar things. This argument goes beyond democratic political culture. It is a vile and disgusting argument, and I must say that I am very sorry that pirates resort to this argument. I've heard it here before. It was from the current Prime Minister. I am very sorry that you learn from him these very procedures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u31	So it was Petr Fiala. I therefore call on Mr Třešňák to speak and Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Otherwise, I will recapitulate the fact that I still have Mr Benešík and Mr Peksa in writing. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u32	Thank you. Have a nice noon. I wanted to respond to the second-to-last appearance of President Stanjura, when he Skopečka us not to put something in my colleague's mouth. But if I remember correctly, it was also Mr Skopeček, through Mr President, who called us Members who wanted to disturb the national states and who wanted a European superstate. Indeed, try to remind me, Mr Skopečka, through Mr President, when something like this was said here, although I understand that you may be deducing this indirectly from the debate over taxes. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u33	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík will now be given the floor and Mr Ondřej Benešík will be prepared. Your two minutes, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u34	Thank you for the floor. For the last time, I guess. We are discussing the question of taxes and European funding in this area quite in detail. However, there is one thing I must stress. We do not support an increase in corporate taxes in the Czech Republic, we support an increase in their enforcement in order to avoid tax fraud, but we believe that the rate itself is in order at the moment. First of all. Two. We want to defend our national interests within the European Union. And our concern is that countries that have a significantly lower tax base should pick it up and not take advantage of the fact that they condense within that one small area of taxation from all over Europe, so that money simply does not escape the Czech Republic. So we do not want to raise corporate taxes to the level of Germany, we want Ireland to ideally raise them to the level of the Czech Republic. And I have to agree with Mr Stanjura that the problem is not primarily the level of rates, but the exceptions and the different ways of circumventing those rates. Because, of course, when Facebook got exemption from the normal amount of their corporate tax in Ireland, that's the problem that needs to be addressed primarily. I'm totally in line with this, and I don't know why you're artificially creating a dispute here. The question of what the European Union's minimum real corporation tax will be has nothing to do with what a person has to look at whether Europe has more or less powers as a whole. It is a question of competition in the common market.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u35	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Ondřej Benešík to speak and Mr Mikuláš Peksa will prepare himself. Next, I have Mr. Volný, Mr. Skopeček and Mr. Munzar. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I've noticed here, if I've understood correctly, that things are getting expensive by dropping out of competitions just expensive projects. That's quite possible. But as mayor, of course, I had to submit the results of the selection procedure and I had to carry out the tender procedure under the law. But we make the law. In this European project, they simply want it to be implemented legally. They're not telling us how to do it. European legislation only sets out the general framework for the selection procedure and that we are making the situation more difficult here in the Czech Republic, sometimes it is such a cordial struggle to be transparent and even more transparent and then work towards the motto "I am not rich enough to buy cheap things" so that is really our problem. I also think that Europe's success is given by many factors. And he is given the factors that are civilizing that we have worked for centuries to work towards a system that is based on certain values. For example, we're all equal before the law. It's not common in every society that we can use, even if there are lamentations, and we can't do it 100%, for example, the labor force of women who can get involved because we have a system like this. And so on and so forth. And today we voted on whether or not Europe stands on this. And I'm disappointed that many of you think that's not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u37	That was Mr. Benešík. I will now request the speech of Mr Lubomír Volný. Mr Skopeček will be prepared, and so far the third in the order, and Mr Vojtěch Munzar will have his final application for a factual comment. Well, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I originally did not intend to perform at all, but the appearance of colleague Třešňák made me feel the need to ask him a question. Through the President, Mr Třešňák, you have called on Mr Skopeček not to put anything in your mouth. So I would like to hear a clear and direct answer directly from your mouth: are you in favour of the deep integration of the European Union and of the European superstate? Yes or no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u39	I will therefore now ask for Mr Skopeček's speech. And he will be the last to be prepared with Mr Munzar in fact. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u40	I was accused of putting words in someone's mouth. But do you really feel like it's on the same level when you accuse someone of covering up thefts and that they want to encourage thefts, that it's on the same level as when you say that someone wants deeper European integration and a European superstate? Do you really feel that these two sentences are on the same level and that they mean the same in quotes damage to the opponent? I don't think so. I am not criticizing you at all for wanting a European superstate. I consider this a legitimate view and a legitimate political position. I have another, I will always fight to prevent the European superstate from coming, but I respect your right to have that view. And where did I get it? I have obtained it from your appearance on the Committee on European Affairs, and I have obtained it from personal discussions with some of you, when you simply said that for you the national state is a surplus and that you want a deeper form of European integration towards the European superstate. Then tell me that's not the case. I'd like that. But so far, all these rhetorical outcomes and practical voting on specific matters mean that. After all, just the last sentence that my colleague Ferjenčík would like to force Ireland to have some level of tax is, in my view, perhaps sufficiently illustrative. You simply want to have an instrument at European level to force a state to determine its taxes. After all, determining taxes is a fundamental attribute of the sovereignty of every state. We have already largely weakened it in some aspects within the European Union, but I do not want us to have the right to say how much taxes the Ir should have. I wish the Ir to decide what taxes they have and want to have and how they want to burden taxpayers, just as I wish that we, as the Czech Parliament, should have the right to say what taxes we want to impose on our citizens and our companies. And I don't want anyone else on the outside ordering us to hurt our competitiveness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u41	Thank you. And now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar. And I have another application with the facts, and he's Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal. All right, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u42	Thank you, Mr President, good day, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to respond by your means to Mr Ferjenčík, who said here, if I paraphrase it a little and simplify it, "we want other states to raise taxes that are lower according to us, but we do not want those stronger states to raise our taxes according to them." It is a bit naive to think that if taxes are harmonised in Europe, that it will be governed by us and not by the strongest. However, who do you think will determine the fiscal policy in the harmonisation of taxes? Will it really be us as the Czech Republic? I don't think so. That is why I believe that we should retain our freedom in our decision-making, our freedom to decide our fiscal policy, and even our monetary policy. Maybe sometimes we can use this freedom for our competitiveness. On the contrary, I believe that taxes in our country are high and we should have the right to decide so that we can reduce them for the greater development of the economy. This debate will take place and must take place on the ground of our Czech Parliament and not in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u43	Thank you. So now Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal. Mr Jan Lipavský will be prepared with the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u44	Hello. I just want to respond to the fact that our fellow Member, Mr Volný, has called on my colleague, Mr Třešňák, through you, who, unfortunately, is not here, so I will take the liberty of responding for myself. I do not wish for a European superstate, I generally do not wish for any superstates, nor do I wish for the debate on harmonisation, I think that in harmonisation we should look for a common minimum, not a common maximum. I think I share this view with many colleagues on the pirate side. I would like to conclude this debate if possible and return it to the multiannual financial framework of the European Union, which we are discussing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u45	Thank you. I will now read one apology - Mr Jaroslav Kytýr apologizes from 14:30 for work reasons. Now, then, the final application with the facts, Mr Jan Lipavský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u46	Hello. I would like to respond to my colleague, Munzar, by your means, to Ireland and those taxes. Of course, Ireland is an important and in some ways influential state, but certainly not significantly more than the Czech Republic. They don't have more residents. That means, it's about finding the coalition that we're going to build, and we're going to do the necessary tax settlement, and we're going to make the competitive environment more equal. And don't cry here about how we can't do anything, that it's coming from Brussels. It's up to us and our foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u47	Thank you. I have one more point of fact, Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Before he gets to the microphone, I'll read two apologies. Mr Lukáš Černohorský apologizes between 11.30 and the end of the day, and Mr Petr Gazdík apologizes between 12.00 and 19.00 on account of the hearing. Well, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I'll use your help on Mr. Speaker. I don't think it's just to think that we can make a coalition against another, like a similar large state, and not to worry about, like, then, in the next step, somebody making a coalition, like, stronger states against us. I think that's a very naive idea. I think that the most important thing for the Czech Republic is to retain the possibilities of competitiveness by having our own freedom to decide on our fiscal policy, including taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u49	That was the last factual point, so we will return to standard applications for the general debate. I have two applications here. Firstly, Mr Jiří Kobza and finally asked for the floor in the general debate by Minister Alena Schillerová. So, at this point, two speakers. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, many have been said here, I have also performed several times, although I did not plan to, so I will not speak for long, I would just like to make a few comments on what has been said here. Firstly, we fundamentally reject redistribution, reject the forms of socialism, and from this point of view, of course, the multiannual financial framework that is based on redistribution is unacceptable for us. What we lack in it, and I have already said it here once, is that the administrative apparatus of the European Commission, the European Union, should start looking for savings on its own in the first place before it begins to demand an increase in the Member States' membership contributions. Because I think that transferring its ever-increasing financial requirements to Member States is unfair to rude. I would like to ask the Government to make clear in its opinion on the multiannual framework the political message of the Czech Republic: we will not give you any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u51	Now I have one last application, and this is Secretary Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me sum up to thank you for the debate, particularly to poke out Mr Dolejš's contribution, but I have agreed with most of the things that have been said by Mr Skopeček. I would really like to sum up that the position of the government - and to remind you of this, because you may have been more than critical of the EU's multiannual financial framework for 2021 to 2027 since that last speech, or the first time the discussion began. Basically, we as a government state in our position that the key priority of the Czech Republic will be to negotiate sufficient funds for the Czech Republic for two key priorities, and this is a cohesion policy and the EU's common agricultural policy, but we do not agree with the proposed savings. As far as funding for new priorities is concerned, and it has fallen several times within the framework of the debate, we are ready to support the strengthening of funds for programmes that focus on border control, but not in the way that is proposed in the multiannual financial framework, i.e. We have a very reserved attitude about this. We want the boundaries to be strengthened where necessary, helping countries that need it. We are very reserved and rejected e.g. to be for the so-called Frontex is increasing the budget to 10.3 billion. We are very critical of this, although, of course, it is about 3% in the overall budget. At the same time, we want individual Member States to have greater powers to decide on the focus of these funds on national priorities, which means that we want to negotiate the most advantageous future financial conditions, especially for the implementation of cohesion policy funds. We disagree with the settings - today we have rule n+3, i.e. we can draw three more years to shorten to n+2. As far as the common agricultural policy is concerned, we consider the proposed savings to be very problematic, as well as mandatory ceilinging, and unlike the proposals that have been made here, we want this competence to be within the competence of individual Member States. And that position is not only the position of this government, but the same position was essentially the government's last position. As far as the revenue side of the EU budget is concerned, the government is convinced that the current system is complicated and long-term seeks to simplify it. It considers long-term GNI to be the most appropriate criterion for determining Member States' contributions to the EU budget. And now there has been a big debate about the fact that the Commission is proposing to expand the budget funding chain, while it goes against our efforts, we want to simplify it. The proposed own resource is in particular the source from the consolidated corporate tax base, the source from the sale of emission allowances and the source based on the contribution for non-recycled plastic packaging materials. So the government doesn't agree. [[12.30 hours]] As far as the consolidated corporate tax base is concerned, it has fallen several times, and it has fallen correctly, these are discussions that have been going on in the European Union for years. And trust me, they'll be good for years. It's not about rates at all, it's not about Ireland, and now I'm going to give my fellow Pirate Party a little bit of a lesson here, it's not about these things. That's where we're at, in fact, to establish a uniform tax base. And we, from the beginning, like the Czech Republic, have a very reserved position on this. We say: yes, we will participate in the debates, we must participate in them to see where this is going, but on the other hand, we say: we do not want to lose this national competence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-004-076.u53	I'm sorry. I'm gonna have to interrupt you now. We have a fixed point at 12:30. It's an election point. Of course, if it were the will to negotiate this very quickly, then there's room after the House's agreement to leave it, but as I can see from the applications, we'd probably be stretching out, so I'm sorry. I'm gonna have to interrupt you. [[Minister Schiller: I'm afraid next time.]] So if you agree, we're going to throw ourselves at a fixed electoral point. Now I'd like to open a point.
