ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u1	67. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations First we have an interview by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura on the construction of the I/11 Extended Rudná, Boundary okra. Opava - inclusion in the TEN-T network and its inclusion in the list of priority transport structures under Government Regulation No. 283/2016 Sb., House print 100. This interpelation has been interrupted. At this point, I am giving the floor to Mr Stanjur to present his intervention. Please, you have the floor. And you don't, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u2	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, esteemed members of the government, esteemed colleagues, esteemed colleagues. The text of my interpelation is the House's 100th press. That is also the Minister's reply. I'd like us to discuss the problem for a while today. I asked the Minister two questions, whether the section of the connection between the western part of the region with Ostrava and the motorway network extended Rudná is part of TEN-T and whether or not the European Commission agreed to include this construction in the list of priority buildings that we adopted by law in June 2016. In response, the Minister notes that communication is not part of the network. On this point, I would like to point out that there are graphic evidence. I think all those who are interested in transport know and are able to find them, where communication and railways that fall into TEN-T are defined. But besides that - and there really isn't an extended Red, and we all knew that. But aside from the fact that TEN-T, there's something called a primary city node in that European hunker. And if there are primary urban nodes, and in our republic it's essentially two, it's the primary city node of Prague and the primary city node of Ostrava, where the conditions are defined so that the territory meets the characteristics and can be dealt with as the urban node, among other things, it's an agglomeration that has at least one million inhabitants. This applies both within Prague and within the Moravian-Silesian Region. The group, I do not know whether a group or one or one MEP turned in November last year with similar questions to the Commissioner for Transport and looked for how it could be applied and how the city node of Ostrava could be interpreted. The answer available to both the Ministry of Transport and us clearly states that it is within the competence of the Czech Republic. I even think that it is possible to define the buildings that belong to that city node without consulting or consent from the European Commission. In this respect, I think the Ministry of Transport has overslept. In fact, I would say that, in response to the document and to the official interpellation of MEPs in February of this year, the Deputy Minister sent a question to the European Commission about what constructions could be applied within the city node of Ostrava. I'll just remind you that within the city node they can be included in the TEN-T set of structures and trailer roads if they represent the TEN-T connection, which in the case of the Extended Red Node is without a doubt that it is directly extended to D1. Other buildings that represent the connection to the airport, which in this case is confirmed again, because the D1 leads up to the airport Mošnov, respectively. There is an exit from the D1 airport Mošnov. As well as the extended Rudná allows you to arrive at Ostrava-Svinov railway station, which is undoubtedly part of TEN-T. [[9.10 hours]] The Ministry of Transport reiterated its argument that it finally decided, respectively. confirmed that the original bill was also extended by Rudná. Then the Ministry of Transport decided - and I admit that it is a border decision whether or not the construction belongs there - so it decided that in the regulation of the government that defines the priority transport constructions, the extended Rudná was not, with reason that they did not want to influence, any problems with the extension of Rudna did not want to affect the other nine buildings. I am satisfied with this explanation, in principle I agree with it, we are only in dispute for a long time, or in an opinional dispute, to clarify this, with the Ministry of Transport, that I think that nothing has prevented the prolonged Rudná from being classified as a priority transport construction by another government regulation. That risk really exists, and if the government's order were to be challenged, we would not endanger the other nine buildings. This means, in my opinion, the Extended Red is part of the TEN-T network node, because by discussing this in April, my first supplementary question to the Minister is whether the response to the request of Deputy Commissioner Čoček from Brussels has already come and, if so, if he could introduce you and me to the answer. But what I want to say is that we have a missed chance here, and it is not only about Ostrava but also about Prague, because the TEN-T option has existed for five years and the Czech Republic has not really used it at all. According to my information, there is no construction in the city node of Ostrava and there is only a connection in the city node of Prague when I say it in a simple way, the Brno and Hradec motorway and the connection itself is part of TEN-T. So I think we could help both the agglomeration of Ostrava and Prague if we could use the institute. So, aside from the two questions I've asked the Minister, I have a third, final. Although it's late, we can still use the institute, so I want to ask if... [[Another Member is speaking to the Minister of Transport at that time.]] It's hard when I'm talking to the Minister here and someone else is disturbing him. Then the Minister won't be able to answer me, and it won't be his fault. So the first question was whether the answer came from Deputy Minister Čoček, what the Ministry of Transport did for five years, why it didn't use it, why it asked for the first time how the Ministry could work with it, after the Commissioner for Transport answered the question or suggestions of Czech MEPs, and whether we are planning to add some other constructions in the city node of Ostrava and in the city node of Prague that could take advantage of the chance that they are in the TEN-T network. It's not a formality. For those of you who do not deal with transport infrastructure today and daily, this is one of the conditions for drawing European money. It is a fact that time is running out, but we are still there in April 2018, so that we can possibly co-finance the buildings with European money. I just want to remind you and say again that I'm sorry that it's been almost two years since we passed the law here, and as far as the EIA is concerned, nothing has actually changed at all. It doesn't mean that nothing was done there, but nothing really changed, because the EIA is still not, and I think if we took advantage of the government's order, at least we could have the EIA here. I agree that this isn't the only problem and that the EIA being released would solve everything. That's true, but that's how we're still at zero. For those of you who don't know it, communication is basically done, there is 400 meters missing, and thanks to this, the city district of Ostrava Poruba suffers, perhaps even the Beautiful Field and today and daily the negative effects of increased car transport fall on tens of thousands of citizens. It is, of course, less comfortable to connect citizens and entrepreneurs from the western part of the Moravian-Silesian region, because if it was done, they basically have a comfortable connection to the motorway network and to the D1 and at the same time to Ostrava-Svinov railway station, where the connection from D1 towards the railway station is actually built and is very comfortable for all who want to use public transport. I thank the Minister for answering my additional questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u4	Mr President, honourable Member, honourable Members, when it comes to the Extended Rudna, I would like to say here, and this will answer one partial question, the new EIA is issued for this construction, it was issued specifically on 30 November 2017, and it is therefore valid. What at the same time blocks the implementation of this construction is certainly not the EIA today, but the unsolved material burden and the problem with a doctor who has been there for a long time. I agree with the fact that there is evidence on this site, as well as on many others, but the extended Rudná is a great example of that, that someone who has sufficient knowledge of legislation and uses all the possibilities of both the appeal and the rewriting of the land or material burdens from one to the other is able to block the construction in the long term. I've dealt with this gentleman, and specifically, he has the idea that he's gonna get some compensation for non-property damage. I don't understand why and it's quite complicated. But I have information that it might be able to move on. However, as far as the issue of the extended TEN-T interpretation in urban nodes is concerned, I must say that this decision or letter and the comments made by Commissioner Bulc were surprising to us, too, because before that, the interpretation of Regulation 1315/2013 by the Commission's service was very rigid. In Prague, for example, during the first CEF call, a request for funding from the CEF Fund for the construction of Prague-Vysočany - Lysá nad Labem failed. Moreover, the financing of this line, which is proven to be the backbone of the main TEN-T network in the Prague railway junction, was finally agreed by the Commission in the second call and after the exchange of many argument letters. So, in this light, we find a new interpretation that Members of the European Parliament have received in response to their interpelation, very free and contradictory to the Commission's previous opinions. That is why we have turned - and this has already been said by Mr Stanjura through the President - asking the Commission whether the institutions will confirm this interpelation and determine what the scope of the TEN-T interpretation will be on their part and how it will be consistently approached. And here I have to say, we don't have an answer yet, so when we get it, we'll definitely pass it on immediately. Given this fact, it's just hard to tell what other and whether we were capable or whether we were rigid or not rigid. The negotiations were quite difficult and mostly DG Move and DG Regio's workers opposed the expansion of the network during the discussion of the constructions. The question is that today we are in a situation - and even in this last programming period also in this current programming period - we are in a situation where we have been able to apply European money to all constructions, or we are able to apply it to all buildings, which are indisputably referred to as TEN-T in this situation, however, in the future, because I think that the CEF programme, which is Connecting Europe Facility, will continue to be used, so we could rethink some of the buildings that could be used in these two urban nodes. As far as the past goes, it is true that we have discussed this matter several times. I do not want to speculate today that the prolonged Rudná would be included either by a separate or by a joint decision of the government, whether it would help and how it would help. However, it's true that we might have tried. Thank you. I do not know, I hope that is enough for the honourable Member, if I am so prepared to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u5	There. Mr Stanjura, to whom I hereby give the floor, is once again reporting in the debate. Excuse me, I'd like to use it again, or I'll let you talk, then I'll read the apologies. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u6	Thank you for the floor. It's basically enough for me. I take the Minister seriously that he will give me the answer, the answer to the question. I will not propose any resolution by the House, because I think that the debate and the response have also exhausted the subject. It is not necessary, even if the House does not agree with the answer to process it again, that would be unnecessary. I just have one request, Minister, that I really won't do it. And it's kind of the official approach. You answer me, then you say well, but then Juncker sent a letter to former Prime Minister Sobotka and he doesn't have the Ministry of Transport available, so contact the Office of the Government. Well, I think your officials are making it too easy. Before they write me a reply, there's nothing to prevent the Department of Transport from requesting that document from the Office of the Government and adding it to the reply. I know it's not the Minister's business to call the Prime Minister and find a letter, but tell your officials that we won't run, that I won't interpel three institutions on one topic, and then get answers. Otherwise, at this point, I have no motion for a resolution and we will wait for that response from the European Commission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u7	Thank you. The Minister still has an interest in speaking in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u8	Mr President, honourable Members, Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, I agree with you that the answer did not sound good. I apologize for that, and I will make sure that I check it more carefully so that such answers do not go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u9	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. I see no one, so I am ending the debate and I will not even ask President Stanjura whether he is proposing a resolution because he has already answered me, he does not propose a resolution. Well, thank you all, and I'm done discussing this. Let me read your apologies. Mr Baxa apologizes from today's meeting from 12.30 to the end of the day, Mr Lubomír Liber Volný apologizes for reasons of work until 11 pm, Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský apologizes from 9 to 11 pm, Mr Patrik Nacher apologises between 9 and 10 pm for reasons of work, Minister Pelikán apologizes from 9 to 11 pm for reasons of work, Mr Hnilička apologises from 9.45 to 11.30 pm for reasons of work. And Mrs Jana Krutáková's apology arrived freshly between 14.30 and 19.00 on account of the hearing. So, we've dealt with the apologies and we're going to discuss another written interview, it's an interpellation with the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. The Minister of Transport replied to Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's interview on the current state of preparation and current state of the announced tender for the processing of feasibility studies on high-speed VRT lines in the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as House press number 101. On 1 March 2018, on a proposal from Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, the Chamber of Deputies interrupted the discussion of this reply until the presence of an inter-led member of the government. This obstacle has passed, the Minister is present. I am opening the debate here and giving the floor to Mr Stanjur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u10	Thank you for the floor. I just have to remind you that the interruption was in agreement with the Minister, who was duly excused at the time, so there was no conflict on the subject. This is not a subject that I would say politically in terms of a conflict between the government majority and the opposition minority. It's a thing many of us like to talk about, some of us are already saying that those high-speed lines or fast connections, as the Department of Transport has found a new expression that they're going to be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. That's not the case, and the interpellation is more about how to proceed in preparation. From the answers - I actually asked three questions. The answer to the first question, what is the current situation, is basically exhausting. That's where all of us who are interested in this have been given information on how the selection procedures for preparation are progressing. The only thing I'm sorry about here is delaying, because if I compared, for example, the study that was on the Economic Committee last July, it said that the competition for the track, which I am enormously interested in as a member of the Moravian-Silesian Region, that it will be launched at the turn of 2017-2018. The answer is that it's going to be in the second quarter of 2018, so it's about six months. Here I would just ask the minister and his people in this assignment: The track for quick connections is basically intended for the territorial development of our region, it is stabilized, so I think the track might not be looking for any more, that it might be a waste of time. And eventually, if someone suggested another line off the one that's already been set aside, it's stabilized, there might be another delay. So I'm happy with that part of the answer, and I'm hoping that we can put out the tender because if you've read it, it's assumed that the work will take two years. And if the contract comes out sometime in June, sometime in the autumn, we can have a winner at the beginning of winter, and we come to the fact that sometime at the end of 2020, we will still have the study completed. I'm not criticizing it, I think it's a reality that in this case we can't do it several times, here we can't use the method of experimenting and error, if we're talking about building a line in completely new corridors. So the state has to be sure here, and I think the preparatory work has a broad political support, that it's not a fight. The second part of my question, however, was directed to my concerns, to delaying the competition, whether the strategy department is well-equipped. And it was really a question, it wasn't for me to say right now that it wasn't and that something was to be done about it. But it's not clear to me from the answer, because I got a relatively detailed answer, what the department is doing, what it's going to do, what it's going to do, but the clear answer to whether the minister says he's well-equipped, means that there's enough qualified experts to perform tasks, for example, even in the area of rapid connections, I didn't get it. So maybe I'd just ask for a simple yes or no answer, Mr. Secretary. And the third thing, the third question was the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies from the last parliamentary term, and here I think the answer from the Ministry of Transport is wrong. But it's more like a consultation with the House of Legislation. In fact, the previous House adopted a resolution by which the Ministry of Transport undertook to provide information on the progress of the preparatory work on high-speed lines or fast connections at the end of March, I think at the end of March. And the interpretation of the Ministry of Transport is that the resolution was terminated by the end of the previous term of office. I don't think so, and it's more up to President Vondráček to arrange for this opinion of the Ministry of Transport to be assessed by our legislation. If that is the case, I will certainly suggest at some point that we renew the resolution, because there was a great consensus on it at the time, and I assume that there would have been a great consensus in this parliamentary term. But it seems pointless to me if this resolution were valid, to re-allocate a new point and actually adopt the same resolution. I think that the resolution itself was welcomed by the Ministry of Transport, but today the same minister is still there, so I think it is also an interest of the Ministry of Transport to provide complete information to Members who are interested in the issue of high-speed lines or fast connections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next in the debate will be the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond very quickly to what has been said here. I would just like to inform the Chamber of Demolition that the study of the high-speed connection Prague-Brno-Břeclav, which was attacked by one of the participants of this competition at the ÚHOS, was informed yesterday as part of the decomp procedure that the ÚOHS stopped the ongoing administrative proceedings because it did not find fault on the SŽDC side, in other words, the contract with the winning candidate was signed and here it is running. As for the others, we plan to draft a feasibility study of Přerov-Ostrava for a high-speed connection this year. I'm just gonna see if I can speed this up and do it faster. I have information that it should be in the first half of this year, so I can provide that information here. [[9.30 hours]] For other things, if I'm aware, the fundamental question is whether the strategy department has enough workers. At this point, I think it is also reinforced by foreign workers. He's got enough workers. If we feel that we need to strengthen him, we'll definitely do it. I would just like to say here that there are other considerations whether we should set aside a very special group for these high-speed connections, that it would not be a strategy where it would fall, but that it would simply be a union that would only address this issue in the future. We're also talking about whether or not we're going back to our idea of whether or not this major deserves some special regulation, but I'm keeping that open for now, and I don't want to say how it is. As far as information is concerned, I take it that we intend to inform the Chamber of Deputies whether this resolution is in force or not. We treat him morally as valid, we follow him. And I would like to inform that the information has been discussed by the government yesterday and has been forwarded to the Chamber of Deputies, namely the Economic Committee, so that it will certainly be discussed by the Economic Committee in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mr Stanjura during the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u14	Well, Minister, we had a good time last night when it was in the government. Thank you for doing this on the Economic Committee. Once again, I will not propose any resolution on this written interpelation. I only have a request or a request. According to the information I have that the quick connections make sense, especially if they have connections to the surrounding states. And according to the information I have, so far we have fixed border crossings, when I say it like this, just in the direction of Dresden, it's not with the others. This is certainly a matter that I think must be dealt with at intergovernmental level. Not even individual carriers can do that. Once again, it is very important for our region that this connection continues to Poland. But I think the problem is general, so I would like to ask the government or the Ministry of Transport to start negotiations with the governments of the surrounding states, so that we can actually arrange those crossing points at that intergovernmental level, because if we didn't hit each other, that's not entirely happy. Even the investment wouldn't be that effective. I would really like to turn our attention to Poland and the Moravian-Silesian Region. Very often they talk about the quick connections only from Germany, whether it is through Dresden or Munich to Prague. But Poland is a great state, I think that the quick connection would help the development of the Moravian-Silesian region, but also the adjacent voivodships. I firmly believe that an agreement can be found at that intergovernmental level where the point of transition will be. And the work could be coordinated from both sides. I don't need an answer to that today. It's more of a request. Maybe the Department of Transport is already dealing with this and I'm breaking into an open door. I'm just reminding you that it's a good thing that we're gonna get that detailed information, and then, eventually, we can continue this debate on the floor of the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u15	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. The Minister has already given an explanation, he will no longer speak. If no one else is interested, I am ending the debate and I am asking President Stanjura if he is interested in a motion for a resolution. He's suggesting from the point of view that he doesn't. He even said "Mike," and I wasn't paying attention. So thank you. That's what we've been discussing. We're going to continue with another interpellation, and that's an interpellation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Jakub Michálek's interpellation on the ill-advised salaries of officials. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 146. Thank you. I am opening the debate and I am asking the Member to present his intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am a Member elected in the capital city of Prague, and I have been approached by a number of officials, and I know that from practice when I was a representative of the Prague capital council, that especially in the capital city of Prague and also in Brno, that is, in those metropolises where the prices are higher, there is a big problem with pay rates. It is difficult to attract high-quality employees to the public administration. I think the current conditions are set so that they can't attract anyone reasonable. Public administration is simply an extremely unattractive employer. And if we are talking about digitalizing the state here in political programs, then of course we need very capable employees who can also use modern technologies and are motivated to provide work with high efficiency and high productivity. Unfortunately, the specific levels are set in such a way that, for example, the starting salary in the 10th grade, i.e. with the required higher education, is CZK 18,810, which, especially if you look at various adverts where employers like LIDL offer the starting salary of over CZK 29,000, seems to be highly inadequate. Another example. I've been approached by a lawyer who has six years' experience and works as a judge's assistant. It states that her reward was CZK 22,860, which is still considerably less than the saleswoman. So I think it says that the state is not an attractive employer. And if we have a tariff policy like this, we won't be able to get the state to work at all so that it can plan complex projects. If you look at what the capital of Prague is doing, it really does one of the most complex projects in the Czech Republic, for example, it is responsible for building the Blanka tunnel, it is responsible for building the subway, it is responsible for other complex things, such as urban planning and development around the metro line D, where the development potential of those areas for spatial planning is more than 57 billion. Crowns. These are really very complex projects, one of the most complex in this country, and they need to be made by top competent people. Otherwise, it always ends in disaster, and it's gonna keep happening forever. So my recommendation was for the state to settle salaries in the public sector to adapt them to the labour market. Because the government ran in an election to run the state as a company. That means they need to adapt to the labour market. It cannot all work on tables that are the same across the Czech Republic and do not take into account the labour market in specific locations. I recommended that the government digitize, thereby increasing productivity and, as a result, reducing the number of officials, but, of course, there is a need to motivate these people to do so. Unfortunately, it doesn't happen with the system settings. The answer I received from the Prime Minister is very abstract. For example, it states that, first and foremost, it is necessary to emphasise that the wage policy of individual employers in the business sector cannot, given the nature and organisation of the public administration itself, be a reason for adjusting employee pay rates in public services and administration. So, on the one hand, we are experiencing a dramatic increase in private market-economy wages, and the state claims that this is no reason for it to increase public-sector remuneration. If we look purely at the economic principles that result from running the state as a company, then if the employee decides whether to choose the public administration as his new job or the private sector, he will, of course, go to the private sector where the wages are higher. Likewise, a person who already works in public space today will consider very carefully whether he wants to continue his career under these conditions, and there is a risk that a part of those officials who can do a good job there today will simply go away. If it goes on like this, it threatens... or rather the system demotes officials so that eventually there will be those who either don't have the skills to get a higher reward, or worse, they'll secure the reward somewhere else. And now I would continue to do what the Prime Minister said, why I consider his response to be insufficient. Because it did not indicate how there was an increase in wages on the market, what the public sector should adapt to. It merely stated that the government increased the rates by 3,5 % in 2014, by 3 % in 2015, by 4 % in 2016 and even by 10 % in 2017, but there is no basis at all for the private sector situation and how private sector wages grew and whether the current comparison is motivating for those employees. [[9.40 hours]] The Prime Minister also replied that they were preparing a government regulation to amend Government Decree No. 341/2017 Coll., on the salary ratios of employees in public services and administration, as well as the regulation on the salary ratios of civil servants, the primary objective will be to systematically continue the convergence of employee pay scales in public services and administration. - This is such an abstract statement that I cannot regard it as a satisfactory response to my interpellation, which provided really specific cases of persons whose starting salary does not correspond to their practice and qualifications, and it is in strong disproportion with the situation on the private market. While the Prime Minister is considering the possibility of valorisation, or states that the government may consider valorising pay rates, it again does not provide any specific information. It states that, in connection with this, the development of indicators cannot be anticipated and, in view of the short period of time from the last flat rate valuation, the impact of the current level of pay rates on the personnel situation in the public administration cannot be clearly assessed. - That's the problem, that valorisation can't always be across the board, if we assume that even the changes that happen on the market aren't entirely flat. After all, wages don't grow exactly the same in each segment. And when we set up the wage policy, we should look at the situation in the individual segments of the labour market. Unfortunately, this is not happening, which is why I find the answer unsatisfactory. I'm sorry that the Prime Minister is not here to apologize, but that there isn't even a Deputy Prime Minister present to represent him, which makes sense to me that this should be the case at the interceptions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Yes, the Prime Minister is excused by 2:30 p.m., and will attend oral interviews. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. If this is not the case, I will end the debate and ask Mr Michálek if he has any motion for a resolution on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a resolution on this point - given that I am not satisfied with the answer, I do not think that the fundamental context is clarified there, and it concerns a huge number of employees in the public sector - that The Chamber of Deputies does not agree with the answer. So the Prime Minister should be able to redo it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u19	So the resolution was that the Chamber of Deputies disagreed with the reply to Mr Michálek's written interpelation. [[Gong.]] I'm registering the application for check-out, so of course I'll comply. At the same time, I called in colleagues from the lobby. I'd like you to sign up with your cards again... So, and even the vice-president of the government came to us, which we welcome. [[Brabec]] I will read a few more apologies: Vice-President Hamáček apologizes from 9.00 to 14.30 hours for working reasons, Minister Schillerová apologizes for working reasons from 9.00 to 11.00 hours and for health reasons Mr Rostislav Vyzula apologises. I think the number of votes has stabilized. Is there still one application for check-out? [[It's not.]] There are problems with login... I don't know if you're taking advice from the right guy. My colleague had a history of tucking in. [[Laughs in the hall.]] We'll check out again and try again, maybe it'll help. Please log in one more time. [[After the intervention of the staff of the Office of the House of Facilities, it began to work.]] It's okay. So, I repeat, we are voting in dissenting resolutions on this interpelation. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the motion for a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies does not agree with the Prime Minister's reply to Mr Michálek's written interview. Who's against it? Voting number 42. 82 Members are registered, for 32, against 41. This resolution was not adopted. That's what we've dealt with, and I thank you all. We'll continue by intersecting the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Minister of Transport Dan Ťok responded to Ivan Adamec's interpelling on the direct train connection between Trutnov and Hradec Králové with Prague. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 147. I will ask the Member to give his intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u20	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, allow me to say a few words about why I gave a dissenting opinion with the reply of Minister Took. It is not for professional reasons, but it is for reasons of regional interest which differed in this case. It is actually about the fact that direct train lines from Trutnov to Prague and backwards were introduced in 2010. It was very good, I'll give the reasons in a minute. The connections drove every even hour as direct express connections, each odd hour as transit connections in Hradec Králové. Whoever rides this train knows what a delicacy it is to transfer in Hradec Králové at Hradec Králové railway station. I don't think Pardubice will be much better after the reconstruction. I must say that Trutnov is the second largest center in the Hradec Králové Region, it is actually a base for the eastern Krkonoše Mountains, and not only there, but also for the Adršpašsko-Teplice-Broumov complex. Transport to these places is very complicated because there is no capacitive road to Trutnov, a motorway that is under construction, it will take a few years, and at the same time there is no capacitive railway. That's the problem, because most of the lines are one-track, and they're not even electrified, and some of the lines are even missing, like the Vysokian clutch. So we very much welcomed that this connection was introduced, it was used, of course we can discuss whether at some times it was more or less. But the direct connection was very valuable, because if we want to get our citizens on the railroad from the point of view of transport, we should ensure them as much comfort as possible. I understand the reasons, the economic reasons, we actually come up with the liberalisation of operations on Czech lines, and of course the economic advantage of these operators is one of the important parameters. I understand that the corridor is a corridor and the rest from the corridor has completely different parameters and other economic demands. However, the idea that these connections will be cancelled and replaced by a transfer link, so we will have a direct connection to Pardubice and in Pardubice we will switch to the corridor line directly to Prague, although it is definitely correct from the economic point of view, from the point of view of strategy it is also very correct in the economic spirit, but in terms of passenger comfort it is not right. It is also true that already in 2011 the Ministry of Transport published a transport plan saying that this connection would be cancelled, that the direct connection would only be to Hradec or to Pardubice. And the county didn't respond. That's what needs to be said here. I don't know why the cast of the county was completely different back then. I confess that I am sorry that regional representatives, regional leadership did not respond to this in terms of the demands of our citizens. [[9.50 hours]] I must say that after 2022 this connection should actually disappear completely, it should go to Pardubice and then move further towards Prague or to the other side of Brno, Ostrava. I cannot agree with this answer, because both representatives of public expertise, i.e. ČD staff who have their experience with this transport and the public as such simply perceive the possibility of travelling by train as a pleasant alternative to that moment if we remove all the complications. And you can imagine that either students take this train, employees go to Prague, but tourists also ride, and when a tourist has skis or has a backpack, a suitcase, it's really a horror thing to transfer to any Czech station. But I do know that now the government was in remission on a visit to the Hradec Králové Region, where the next meeting took place. The current regional leadership has a different view to this than the previous one, supporting the idea that the direct link should be maintained. Of course, I took this opportunity to follow up on these negotiations, and I would like to ask Mr. Transport Minister, Mr. Took, if by chance the Ministry intends to reconsider the matter, because, as I say, if we want to get people on the railroad, we must provide them with all the comfort. Otherwise, they will not ride the railroad, they will invent alternative replacements, and it is not beneficial for our environment and for the culture of travelling not only on rail but also on roads. So I would ask the Minister if this opinion does not change, because of course I know that there is already a tender procedure with parameters, that it will probably not be quite easy, but I would like us to come to a more positive view, so that our citizens and visitors of our beautiful region are satisfied and are taking advantage of railway travel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening the debate and the Minister has already volunteered and wants to respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for interpelling Mr Adamc through Mr President or President, I am sorry. I have prepared the argumentatively correct position of our office, which defends the concept that Mr Adamec spoke of. On the other hand, it is true that I have already had two meetings with the Transport Councilor of the Hradec Králové Region, with Mr Červíček, at my office. During the visit of our government we discussed the situation again directly at the Hradec Králové station, there were also representatives of the Czech Railways, so I also heard their position. On the basis of these negotiations, I have decided to deal with this situation one more time. You're right that our proposed solution is technically correct, it's more economically advantageous, but it might really drive away the group of passengers we want to take this train. Then I had to admit the second thing that actually this speedster to Trutnov was the only one who went to the county in public service, and that it would be unfair of us to cancel the only connection again. So what I want to say is that I want to do this again, we're going to talk about it, and I'm going to look for a solution so that we can satisfy as much of this demand as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u23	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking if anyone else is interested. Mr Adamec, then Mr Petrtýl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u24	So, Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to thank the Minister for his position and de facto promise that this matter can be put on the right track. Otherwise, I must say that all of us, or you who work in the public administration, in the civil service, know that how many times the most economically advantageous solutions are not the best. And I think this is the case. I understand, we want to liberalize the traffic on the lines, there is private money in it, I understand that, however, in terms of the comfort of transport I think it is necessary to think a little bit, a little bit differently and try to find a solution that will not economically be too burdensome for the state, but at the same time the public climate will improve considerably, and I think this is the purpose. I'll say again that Trutnov... I know the jokes when someone tries to piss me off and says, "Trutnov or Turnov?" I understand that Trutnov is just a deserted border for some, but it's not. Trutnov is a modern, relatively large city on Czech terms, which actually has the bad luck of being in the border and that D11 is still at Hradec, on the Polish side somewhere near Javor, perhaps even further. And as far as the railroad is concerned, it's just what it is, because the development plans from the railroad point of view are being implemented very slowly. And I believe that some are gradually being realized. Still, Trutnov is one of the centers of the electrical industry today, it's really an industrial city, I recommend you visit. But please, when you get there, be patient. If you take the train, use the speed link that exists so far, if you drive the car, I suggest you really armor yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Petrtýl has applied for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to share some experience from other regions. I am the councillor for transport in the Central Bohemia Region and we have the opposite problems here, because more and more people travel from the Central Bohemia Region to Prague by public transport. Every day it is about 200 thousand bus passengers and over 140 thousand trains, where there has been an increase of almost 10 percent over the last year. I agree with Mr Adamec here, by your means, that rail transport and rail transport are indeed the basic backbone network of transport, because we cannot go the way of the permanent expansion of roads, roads and motorways, but indeed the rail transport has its own route, which is a huge advantage. So I think the more we support rail transport, the more people, the passengers, the more people, we're sure we're gonna get, the more people we're gonna get, we're gonna get, we're gonna get, we're gonna get, we're gonna get, we're gonna get, we're gonna get, we're gonna get, we're gonna get, we're gonna get, we're gonna get, we're gonna get, we're gonna get, we're gonna get, we're gonna get more people, we're gonna get more passengers, we're gonna stay in this Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask whether anyone else has an interest in speaking on this point in the debate. This is not the case, I am ending the debate. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in proposing a resolution. That's not the case, so I thank you, and I'm done talking about this interpelation. Now let me read a few apologies. Mr Jan Birke apologizes for 12 and 13 working reasons, Mr Pavel Blažek apologises on Thursday 12 April from 11.00 to 13.00 for personal reasons, and Mr Stanislav Blaha apologises on 12 and 13. 4. for health reasons. That's how we used up all the written interpelations. I am of the opinion that, for today, we have completed the discussion of the answers to the written interpelations of Members. Now, for several practical reasons, on the one hand, ensuring the presence of ministers, ensuring the management of the meeting, and probably not surprising each other, because a number of colleagues may not have counted on it, we will continue according to the approved programme, i.e. The first reading of the programme will continue, so as to ensure a dignified discussion of the laws, I will interrupt the House meeting within 11.00 hours, when we will continue with a proper approved programme, unless there is a major objection. I don't see anyone, I'm interrupting the meeting until 11:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-001-067.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. Before I begin on the agenda, allow me to read the apologies received by the President of the House. From 14:30 to 18:00, Mr Radek Holomčík apologizes, from 16:00 to the end of the meeting day, Mr Jiří Strýček, who extended the apology from 15:00 and between 14:30 and 17:00 Lukáš Bartoň. That's an apology. And we're going back to the first reading block. Before we start with the interrupted points from yesterday afternoon, there's a chance, under the Rules of Procedure Act, of proposing changes to the agenda. I'm asking if anyone is applying to change the draft agenda. It's not like that. So we're going to continue on the basis of the individual points that have been approved. The first point interrupted was point No. 11, but he was in the presence of the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán, whom I do not see here. So the condition is not met. So I'm going to put it at the end of the first reading block. The next item is
