ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u1	61. Government proposal by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give consent to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union (the House Press 97/ - first reading) I will therefore ask the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová to take her place at the rapporteur's table, ask for the readiness of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Martin Stropnickýý and ask that Mr Jan Kubík, who is rapporteur for first reading, take his place at the rapporteur's table. We interrupted this item at the seventh meeting on 21 March 2018 and adjourned before the draftsman's speech to the next meeting, which means that none of the ministers or the Minister or Minister Stropnický appeared. So we're starting all over again. The submitted proposal will first be presented by the Minister of Finance of the Czech Government Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Let me briefly state the Government's proposal for an approach to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union, also known as a fiscal pact or compact. The Government's proposal is submitted jointly by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. By order of 14 February 2018, the Government of Accession approved the number 109. The Treaty was signed by 25 EU Member States on 2 March 2012 and entered into force on 1 January 2013. It arose at the time of the eurozone's peak debt crisis. Its aim was therefore to strengthen financial markets' confidence in the correction of high government debt, thereby contributing to the stability of the finances of the government sector of the Member States. This stabilisation is to be ensured under the contract by the introduction of a balanced budget rule of the government sector and the introduction of a mechanism to remedy deviations from balanced management into the national legal systems contained in Titles III and IV of the Treaty. These rules apply only to euro area States and signatories to a non-euro area contract which voluntarily notify the intention to be bound by the provisions. The Contracting Parties are currently all EU Member States with the exception of the Czech Republic and Great Britain. The Treaty is primarily addressed to euro area countries. Its ratification does not affect our decision to join the euro area, and it does not further oblige us to do so. In December last year, the government decided not to set the date of entry into the euro area and the proposal for accession to this Treaty does not change anything. For a non-euro area State that signs and ratifys a contract, the contract shall apply only from its entry into the euro area country unless the Contracting Party concerned has notified the intention to be bound at an earlier moment by all or part of Titles III and IV of this Treaty. The Government of the Czech Republic decided to accede to the Treaty without making this announcement. The same procedure was chosen by Croatia, Hungary, Poland or Sweden. The Treaty will therefore have no direct or indirect effects on the State budget. At present, the Czech fiscal framework is in line with the provisions of the treaty. The main provisions of the Treaty are already contained in the Czech legal order, in particular the Act on the Rules of Budget Responsibility of 2017. The two co-chairmen of the proposal for a treaty shall treat it as an international treaty which does not confer powers under Article 10a of the Constitution and for which ratification the consent of a simple majority in both chambers of Parliament will suffice. While the Treaty is not yet part of the EU legal framework, it is nevertheless closely linked to it and uses the existing institutional structures of the EU. The relevant provisions of the Treaty range within the limits of the competences already delegated to the EU and complement them. The Treaty does not confer any new powers on the EU or any other international organisation or institution, but refers to the existing and functioning mechanisms of European law. This is therefore an international treaty of the so-called presidential category under Article 49 of the Constitution, with a simple majority in both chambers of Parliament sufficient to approve it. An assessment of whether there is a transfer of powers to an international organisation or institution and, therefore, whether the procedure laid down in Article 10a of the Constitution applies to the national approval of an international treaty cannot be done in general, but it is necessary to address the content of the individual provisions, which both co-premissors have done. The analysis of the content of each provision shows that there is no transfer of powers. Accession to the contract in my opinion is quite rightly one of the priority topics of the Czech Republic. In the past, disapproval of the Treaty has become a completely unnecessary expression of the Czech Republic's negative attitude towards the EU, especially in political terms. This is not in the Czech Republic's interest and I believe that most political representation is not. The accession to the Treaty will allow the Czech Republic, among other things, to participate in fully selected eurozone summits, at which otherwise, as the only EU country besides Great Britain, it would be missing or dependent on the goodwill of the President of the European Council, whether the Czech Republic will invite the eurozone summits as a mere observer. There is currently a debate on the reform of the euro area that needs to be actively involved, and it is the ratification of the treaty that will allow it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The proposal submitted will be presented by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Martin Stropnický. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I will be repeating myself in some of the things that have been said here, but I will allow myself to join perhaps a little extra. I would very much like to support the Czech Republic's approach to this contract for the foreign resort. Again, it must be said that we are currently the last EU Member State not yet party to it. So let's just remember how many times we've repeated similar situations, that all those states have kind of overlooked something, and we're the only ones who know who we've seen through all the sneakyness of the possible involvement in that contract and we're sufficiently cautious, unlike them. I don't think we're being cautious, but how many times we're being completely hesitant, and we're creating this mister no for nothing. And when we often talk about promoting national interests and the need to stand up, by saying no where it is not necessary, but at all, where it brings nothing, it doesn't, of course, weakening our position on any possible yes, or at some point in time, to meet us where we have some of our demands, which are really essential. By refusing anything, I mean nothing. And this is nothing more than here and often, I think, in the past, even before I had a parliamentary mandate, so I remember how there was a call for budgetary responsibility, especially from the true sphere of the political spectrum. And of course it was a legitimate and right call. And this is nothing else, this will allow us, in fact, to become completely free just part of this family of states, let's say, to have an opportunity, and this is very important, to attend some eurozone summits and not passively, but to have the opportunity, of course, to express our opinion, whether critical, constructive, whatever. So I think there's a substantial contribution to that. I will repeat what has been said here. It does not move us any closer as a republic to the introduction of the euro, it does not change anything, it will not be binding for us when the Czech Republic itself decides on the date of adoption of the euro at national level. So please, it's fairly crystalline clean. Those countries that have a permanent exception, such as Denmark, are part of it, which follows from what has already been said here. Of course, countries that have a timeless future in the euro, like Sweden, are also part of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u5	Thank you and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jan Kubík. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u6	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, almost everything here has been said by my previous speakers, so allow only a brief summary. The Stability Treaty is an international agreement responding to the debt of the Member States of the European Union before the financial crisis. Under this Treaty, states are to reduce their deficits and debt. It was signed already on 2 March 2012 by 25 Member States of the European Union, i.e. all members other than the Czech Republic and Great Britain. The Czech Republic should actively support eurozone reform, but this also needs to be done in its negotiations. The adoption of a fiscal pact is a condition for participation in eurozone summits, where further development of our most important export market will be discussed. At the same time, the Treaty is in line with the Government's programming statement, which states that the Czech Republic wants to be an active member of the European Union. The Government has currently decided not to accede to Titles III and IV of this Treaty. The Treaty is primarily addressed to euro area countries. For a non-euro area State that signs and ratifys the Treaty, the Treaty shall be binding only from the moment that it adopts the euro, unless, of course, it decides on its own terms for the earlier applicability of Titles III and IV of the Treaty or parts thereof. Title III Fiscal compact provides that the public budgets of the Contracting Parties are to be balanced or surplus. The structural deficit should not exceed 0,5 per cent of GDP. A deficit of up to 1% of GDP would only be allowed under debt below 60% of GDP and guaranteed sustainability of public finances. Title III also requires the Contracting Parties to introduce an automatic redress mechanism in the national budgetary procedure. It would be activated if states deviated from the structural deficit contract or from the path to its gradual achievement. Contracting Parties with a debt of more than 60 per cent of GDP are required to take measures to reduce it by 5 per cent of its excess over the 60% threshold per year. In Title IV Coordination of economic policies and convergence, the Parties undertake to work together to coordinate economic policy, which, through enhanced convergence and competitiveness, should promote the smooth functioning of economic and monetary union and economic growth. Accession to the Treaty shall have no direct or indirect impact on the State budget until such time as it complies with Article 14 (1) of the Treaty. 5 shall become its provisions applicable to the Czech Republic. The impact could then be considered as a possible reduction in the state sector deficit compared to the current situation. Theoretically, indirect costs in the form of sanctions by the EU Court of Justice are also at risk if the inclusion of a balanced budget rule is considered insufficient. The Treaty has already been discussed by the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and has agreed to access the Treaty by its resolution No. 581 of 27 August 2014. Accession to the Treaty is in accordance with the law of the Czech Republic and will not affect the obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union. It also complies with the generally accepted principles of international law and the obligations of the Czech Republic arising from other international treaties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u7	Thank you. The President of the Radim Fiala Club came forward with priority rights. I will just ask whether he wishes to speak before the debate is opened, or may I begin? Okay, in that case, I am opening up a general debate, and Mr Radim Fiala will be the first to speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u8	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear ministers, allow me to comment on the fiscal pact. The SPD movement is known to oppose the adoption of the euro in the current situation, in Europe's current economic situation, which is why I think it is also very important to say what we think about the fiscal pact comprehensively in the movement and how we will behave in the vote. One of the key agenda points of the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement is the pursuit of a balanced state budget and balanced management of the state. We programfully reject the country's indebted future, and we programfully refuse to live at the expense of future generations. We want to achieve a balanced budget by supporting small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, a high level of efficiency and economy in the state administration. However, the current economic policy of the European Union leads to the exact opposite. The economic paradise has multinational corporations in our country, the state apparatus is getting fat, and state bureaucracy is growing at crazy paces to manage constant regulations coming from Brussels and to administer inefficient subsidies to the economy. Brussels is actually introducing grant socialism here. As I said, we support a balanced state budget. Why, then, will we not vote in favour of the fiscal pact presented by Brusel? The fiscal pact calls for a balanced state budget, but it wants this for a very important and important thing - it wants to rid us of sovereignty over the state budget. He wants his total control. We do not need supervision and control of the European Union in order for the Czech Republic to manage well. It is also important to ask what the real purpose of adopting a fiscal pact is. Today it is clearly the first step in forcing the Czech Republic to adopt the euro. It is a salami method that is supposed to take slow steps to adopt the euro. And I can say that only a naive person would see that. By adopting the fiscal pact, we are doing this step. That is why we cannot vote for him in the SPD. The adoption of the euro will mean taking responsibility for the liabilities of all overdebted countries in the euro area, and the Czech Republic will lose one of the last signs of sovereignty. Both things are clearly connected. Fiscal pact equals the adoption of the euro. Even if it's not explicitly written in it. We do not vote on anything but the de facto loss of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic. If we want a balanced economy, let us make our own rules, such as the model of the Swiss constitution. If anyone wants to offer our citizens the euro instead of the Czech koruna, let us first approve the Constitutional Act on a general referendum and declare a national referendum on this issue. If anyone should decide on the adoption of the euro in this country, it should only be citizens in a national referendum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u9	Thank you. In the general debate, Mrs Nevludová will now speak, Mr Hrnčíř will be prepared. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Radim Fiala has already said this, so our SPD clearly considers the ratification of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union to be closer to adopting the common currency of the euro area. The treaty is not about tightening fiscal discipline at all, but about transferring control over the state budget from national governments to Brussels and to the most powerful countries in the European Union. This will restrict the freedom of states to create their own state budget and implement autonomous economic policy. We refuse to transfer our decision-making powers to a transnational level. We also believe that the government in demise should not make such basic decisions that will affect our country's fate on x years ahead. I will not quote here what the fiscal pact contains, but ratification is another part of an endless series called the salami method of taking away sovereignty from the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic is not a member of the so-called the euro area, so at the moment it has no obligation and no reason to implement this Treaty and demonstrate its obedience to Brussels. [[12.20 hours]] The SPD has long supported the budgetary responsibility of executives, including balanced public budget, but only within the legal order and Constitution of the Czech Republic. A balanced budget should be sought by every state and every government. What would the functionality of adopting a fiscal pact for our state mean? The adoption of the euro that we have committed to, further respect for the structural budget for a maximum deficit of 0,5 percent of GDP, so there would have to be major cuts. They would thus take on their promises of raising pensions, raising civil servants' salaries, social benefits, and apparently there would have to be an increase in taxes. The sanctions resulting from the infringement of the rules cannot be taken as a guarantee to ensure that we comply with our obligations of anchoring the rules of the Treaty into national legislation, preferably in the Constitution. According to the text of the Pact, it is intended to fulfil this obligation to enforce the European Court of Justice if the signatory State does not include it in national legislation in a sufficiently consistent form within one year of ratification of the Pact, amounting to 0,1 GDP. The government also bases its decision on the claim that accession to the fiscal pact has a significant benefit for the Czech Republic in the form of an immediate opportunity to participate in selected eurozone summits, but this claim is entirely marginal, because the text guarantees only limited participation of non-euro area members in selected topics, but it does not say who will determine and interpret the topics in advance. The European Union has changed completely since our accession. We have entered a Europe of sovereign cooperating states, today it is a cumbersome pier, standing on shaky feet, trying to centralize power and create vassal territories from individual Member States. A balanced or surplus budget game that the EU seems to require through fiscal compact is just another scam, where it is only a cynical tool to produce fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u11	Thank you. Mr Hrnčíř will also speak in the debate, Mr Skopeček will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the fiscal pact, officially the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in Economic and Monetary Union, is a document whose final form was published on 30 January 2012. The reason for this Treaty was the problems of the eurozone's indebted countries, as we all remember. Under this Treaty, the national budget of the participating countries must be balanced or in surplus, and this rule shall be incorporated into its national law by each Member State. In the event of infringement, automatic penalties shall be imposed on the Court of Justice of the European Union. Governments are also obliged to pre-negotiate their states' budgets with European institutions. The rules of the Treaty are binding only on euro area countries after ratification, and the other signatories will have to start following them after the introduction of the common currency. Our government in the demise of the Prime Minister says it rejects the euro, but by joining the fiscal pact, it will clearly bring the Czech Republic closer to adopting the common currency, and not that it will not. Moreover, the fiscal pact means handing over control of the national budget to Brussels bureaucrats. Such a decision will affect the country's fate decades in advance. I am not even talking about the obligations to take over the commitment of the so-called European stabilisation mechanism to send tens of billions of crowns as a guarantee for the liabilities of poorly managed euro area states. The pursuit of a balanced state budget should be a priority for each state, for each government. Where unfinished debt leads, we see Greece, Italy, Spain and other countries of the European Union. However, if the Czech Republic accedes to a fiscal pact, it will lose control of its state budget. This means that in the event of failure to comply with the conditions of the fiscal pact, our national budget would be created by the European Union institutions regardless of our current needs. Once again, the effort for a balanced budget is commendable, but we do not have to give up one of the fundamental attributes of the sovereign state. I fear that if the transfer of national powers to Brussels is progressing at this rate, this House's final heroic act will be the amendment to the Constitution, with the provision that the European Commission has a leading role in the state, and we can dissolve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u13	It is now Mr Skopeček's turn in the general debate, Mr Munzar will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, I am not kidding, it is indeed so, the government, although having no confidence, has decided to approve the fiscal pact and to complete the ratification, which has not been completed for the previous Sobotkův, nor under Nečasův' government, even though they had confidence. And our government without trust, which with confidence, virtually. she's not happy with the fact that she doesn't have confidence, she doesn't mind commenting on her promise to cut taxes, which means, for example, she's gonna cancel a super gross wage, which is, suddenly, an argument that the government has no trust and has to wait. At this point, when we have a fiscal pact and a government, even if it is ashamed to say so, or the movement is ashamed to say out loud that it is so eager to enter the euro area quickly, that distrust does not bother us to discuss this important international treaty. My previous speakers, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance, have been trying to give the impression that it is no big deal, that it is such a meaningless, casual document for the Czech Republic, which, like - we have already voted it out and it was off the table. But, of course, the truth is somewhere else entirely. The Minister mentioned, in particular, the emphasis of the fiscal pact on responsible management, but when you read the very name of the treaty, it is clear that it is not just about better management in the fiscal pact. The fiscal pact is called the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union. If it were only about stability and good governance, it would not be mentioned in the very name of the fiscal pact, the very name of the treaty, the coordination and governance of economic and monetary union. Since this is being discussed because it is in the very name, it is clear that the fiscal pact goes much further than the management is responsible. It seems a little smiling to me that Minister Schillerová emphasizes that it is good to apply for this, but we want to manage responsibly, and it is the same minister who manages economic growth and puts forward budgets at a time of economic growth with deficits. This year we have approved a deficit of CZK 50 billion, although our economy has been experiencing decent economic growth for quite a long time. At least we hear from the media that the Minister is going to propose and submit to the Government and then to the Chamber of Deputies the budget for next year again with a deficit of CZK 50 billion. So I ask myself why the Minister, why the YES movement, why the current government is so protective of budgetary responsibility, why it insists so dramatically that we accept the fiscal pact from which responsible management is to flow, and at home, at home, at home, they do not act like that at all. I would understand that when we have balanced budgets - and they could have been long-balanced for a long time - remember the television performance by Andrej Babiš many years ago, that we will quickly settle public finances and submit surplus or balanced budgets for approval, and instead, after a few years of decent economic growth, we are in a situation where swell government, when other officials are accepted, when the Financial Administration has nothing to do but blow off our smallest entrepreneurs for extra money, because this government has simply decided to redistribute more, more swelling up the state without investing. She's only sending it to traffic, and she's borrowing money for future generations. And in all this, in the reality that is happening in the state's economy, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State will actually come forward, that we must accept this document, because we all want to manage it responsibly. [[12.30 hours]] Yes, I want to manage it responsibly. I will support the Minister for any draft budget, which will mean fewer deficits, which will mean a balanced deficit, which will mean less taxes and less public expenditure. I'd be happy to support that. But please start with the homework, start at home, stop going to the regions and promise unfulfilled promises, as we have seen in the last few months. You better sit in your office and prepare a budget that corresponds to the economic situation, the economic cycle in the Czech Republic. And the only corresponding budget at this stage of the economic cycle is the balanced budget, not the deficit budget you want to bring us. I will return to the fact that fiscal is not all about good budgetary policy at all. The fiscal pact was, of course, at the time when the euro area was constructed and adopted, so it was, of course, a document that represents a very significant step in the political unification of the euro area. In European integration, in the history of the European integration process, any economic or political crisis is being used by the European political elite for even greater centralization, for even greater unification, for an even greater transfer of powers from national level to transnational level, to Brussels. And most importantly, as far as the fiscal pact is concerned, which, in addition to forcing irresponsible European countries to do better, means that any serious economic reforms, structural economic reforms that the signatories to the fiscal pact want to implement, must be approved and coordinated by Brusel. This means that the eurozone Member States, which must follow this pact, have simply lost a piece of their own sovereignty, in a rather significant area, in the area of budgetary and economic policy. Then let's stop denying it. Let's face it. Just the fiscal pact was a significant step in the process of political unification of the euro area, and that step meant a significant shift, a significant surrender to sovereignty in the area of economic and, in particular, budgetary policy. And if we want to keep it a secret, we're lying to ourselves. I think it must also be said that I have no idea why the government is rushing into the fiscal pact. Madam Secretary already said so. I'll remind you. At this stage, the eurozone is going through discussions on what it will continue to look like. Colleagues from the Committee on European Affairs will confirm to me that we were discussing a document that indicated how it would be, or what form the reform of the European Monetary Union could take, and that reform of the European Monetary Union, or those proposals bring about further, in my view, quite significant changes. There is talk not only of the joint finance minister, it was rather of European politicians such a decoy for individual media and politicians in the Member States to notice and not talk about anything else. But eurozone reform means what the fiscal pact also meant, i.e. further centralization, further unification of economic policies. Among other things, it is proposed that a European stabilisation mechanism be transformed, which now operates on the basis of intergovernmental decision-making, intergovernmental voting, to transform itself into a European Monetary Fund, which would be a pure-blooded European institution that would decide to save or provide financial assistance to individual countries without being forced without having to be sought by any political majority on the basis of international negotiations. I do not want to go into too much detail at all, but the content itself, or the criteria of the fiscal pact itself, are also problematic. The fiscal pact says that at the moment when the signatory who ratified this contractual text will not comply with a certain amount of structural deficit, it is threatened by the European Commission or by the European Commission. Even a court that can sue him for that, he's in danger of being fined. However, any economist dealing with the calculation of the structural balance will tell you that it is not a measurable variable in any way, such as the measurement of unemployment, gross domestic product or inflation, but that it is a calculation that it is a mathematical construct on which there is no consensus in economic science, virtually. there is no consensus on the different methods of calculating the structural deficit, respectively. there is no consensus on the best possible methods to separate the cyclical and structural sections of the deficit. So the fiscal pact is problematic even for this very expert reason. Secondly, it was touching that the Foreign Minister's speech was that we are the smartest, who do not want to join the smart majority in the EU, that we are the ones who can manage best, while they do not know and are stupid. Well, Minister, this is really the case. If you look where you want to get us, what countries you want to bring us closer to when it comes to economics, I would really be very careful and I would hesitate very much to add 34.6 percent of GDP to the Czech Republic, which is in debt, to those smart countries that were so responsible that they joined the fiscal pact years ago. But it's not working out, Minister. They were so clever and so responsible that they joined the fiscal pact, but if you look at Greece, but that's a pretty good example, it's 18.6 percent of GDP debt. If you look at Italy, which, by the way, is a much more serious problem, because although I am sorry for Greece, it is only a smaller economy that does not threaten stability, or threatens the eurozone project as a whole, but when you look at Italy and Italy these last days, I am not so calm anymore. Italy, which is also so responsible and so smart as to join the fiscal pact, manages government debt at 131.8 percent of GDP. The Czech Republic, which has a debt level of 34.6, so you argue that we should be responsible and join countries such as Italy, which has a debt of 131.8 percent of GDP, and the whole EU is deranged about what is going to happen to Italy, because if Italy gets into trouble and is destabilized, the whole euro area will undoubtedly be destabilized and, without a doubt, because of our trade and our ties to the eurozone, it will also affect us. But it's not just Italy. Let's look at Portugal. It is also an excellent and responsible state that has signed up to the fiscal pact, with a debt of 125,7 % of GDP. Spain 98.3. Those are the very smart, very responsible, very well-running states that, according to the Secretary of State, we are supposed to join to be equally responsible. No, I really don't want to join these countries. I want to manage it responsibly too. I want the debt of the Czech Republic to remain at around 34 percent, so that it is not at a level such as Greece, Italy, Portugal, Spain. And we will not ensure that we proceed to a fiscal pact that is equally non-binding to us until we adopt the euro. But if we can keep our debt at 34 percent, it has nothing to do with the fiscal pact. It has to do with our homework, our domestic fiscal policy, with what budgets will look like in the coming years, and, as I said before, in the economic cycle, and name me one single serious economist, the only serious economic school of thought that will tell you and which will recommend that you present deficit budgets in a time of decent economic growth. It is clear, therefore, that the fiscal pact, even though its creators had the ambition to become a kind of insurance policy and a kind of brake on what has been going on in the European Union and the euro area in terms of economics, did not work. It didn't work. Unfortunately, the euro area is not, as we economists say, an optimal monetary area. The euro area, respectively. A group of these heterogeneous countries decided to voluntarily give up their own currencies and use the euro, which, for a little bit of simplification, we can call it the German euro, that it is a German currency that can function on the conditions of German economies or German-like economies that can handle it, such as Nordic countries such as Austria, such as the Netherlands. But surely the German euro cannot work for the countries of the southern wing, which, and I do not criticize it, is their way of life, it is their way of functioning, which simply have an economy based on completely different parameters. [[12.40 hours]] If you also look at the postwar development of Europe and look at it for example. Germany and you compare it with post-war economic development, Italy's development, so you'll find that even though both countries have recorded relatively rapid economic growth and rapid wealth, Germany has approached it through a stable currency, despite stable economics that are embedded in their genes, and I prefer that the Czech Republic is closer to this model, namely Germany, and when you compare it with Italy, which, when it needed and was in economic recession or became less competitive, simply used its own currency, devalued it, thus increased its competitiveness and moved on. I'm not criticizing it, I'm not defending it, but it was just two different models of functioning economies in that post-war development. At the moment, or on the basis of a political decision, because the euro is a political project, it is not an economic project where only economic criteria should be decided, so it has never occurred, or was created in a much smaller group of countries like economies, but unfortunately the euro operates within countries that cannot function well together. For one euro, it means a means for stable inflation and good economic growth, which is Germany, and for another countries it is a straitjacket that imprisons it in economic stagnation. By the way, the euro has been considered as a prerequisite or a chance for stronger economic growth in European countries. If you look at, for example, the aforementioned Italy, the growth of Italy expressed by gross domestic product over the time that Italy has adopted the euro, the average growth for the entire period when Italy uses the euro is 0,05. This is the age-old de facto stagnation of the Italian economy. When we look at the last ten years of Italy, it is minus 0.5, the average growth, which is a terrible report for Italy and a de facto halting the development of this country, because of the euro, because of the German euro, which simply does not work for the southern wing. Greece, if it were able to accept its own currency after the outbreak of the acute economic and debt crisis, if it had a chance to exit the euro area, it would, of course, mean a huge devaluation of its own currency at the first moment, but it would mean that Greece would become more competitive in foreign markets and the correction, although it would certainly not be painless and would not be without problems, but it would certainly be faster than trying to deal with the problems in Greece in the straitjacket that Greece is binding and forcing it to go through stagnation instead of the currency devaluation, or rather a decline in real wages, and thus increase its productivity. So my question is why we are in such a hurry to have a fiscal pact that would help the euro area overcome the difficulties that would help the euro area to behave more economically, to get in shape of public budgets. If we compare this, the Czech Republic - debt of 34.6 percent of GDP, on the contrary Spain, Portugal, Greece over or very close to 100 percent of gross domestic product. The fact that Italy is in the euro area and has a fiscal salary received does not prevent its interest rates, at which it buys bonds and finances its huge debt, from skyrocketing in recent days. Today Italy buys ten-year bonds with an interest rate of 3%, three months ago it was 1.7 percent. Italy is thus dramatically increasing the cost of managing its public debt. Just so you know, Italy borrows ten times the value of Germany. If it seems normal to you that in the eurozone, which is to consolidate similar economies or which is to evolve similarly, if we have relatively significant economies, because Germany and Italy are one of the most important, Germany the most important, Italy one of the most important, if these countries are so different that one can borrow ten times cheaper than the other, it is a clear evidence that the eurozone is not an economically efficient and sustainable project and that it is held only by the political ambitions of the current European political elite. Italy's total debt, EUR 2.3 trillion, when we look at outstanding commitments de facto bankrupt, although this must not be officially said, Greece, because the debt write-off was nothing else, so we see what group of countries we are going to, and what group the Foreign Minister thinks the group is smarter, more responsible, and us for the fools, that we did not go to Greece, Italy, Portugal, to that Spain long ago. I would also like to deal with the reminder that we can't be the troublemakers who are always against it at any cost. I agree, I also feel that when we discuss, for example, the Committee on European Affairs, that there are a number of materials there, and my colleagues will confirm to me that it is really a huge number of things that Brusel and European institutions spew on us in legislation, so when we always look at it, now I look at the President of the Committee on European Affairs, when we choose the most pressing documents, so we choose a grain, a small percentage of the entire legislation that points at us, and we consider the rest to be unproblematic, as if we accept it, that we will translate it, that we will not cause any problems with it. So don't let anyone say that we're some kind of troublemakers who say no to everything. It is not true, come and see the Committee on European Affairs sometime. Look at this insane penzion of materials that the committee will de facto accept without any debate. We are really only dealing with the most serious ones, and we are rarely going to adopt some very hard or sharp position that we are subsequently sending to Brussels that we do not like the legislation. So we are no troublemakers, except for some exceptions, we accept and transpose European legislation on time, and we transcend it by an overwhelming majority. So this argument doesn't apply. Nor is it true that when someone is not a troublemaker, they negotiate more in the European Union. I remember the situation when the Treaty of Lisbon was adopted, we can all remember that. Let us remember the example of Poland, which was farthest with the Czech Republic in preventing the Treaty of Lisbon. Months before the Lisbon Treaty was finally ratified, Poland was the biggest criminal for others, for the European political elite. You have not read anything good about Polish politicians in the paper, and it was those troublemakers along with us who were able to defend themselves to a large extent in the Treaty of Lisbon, even negotiated an exemption from the Charter of Criminal Social Democracy, even though we negotiated it, then left it on ice and accepted it and rejected the request that President Klaus negotiated at the time. So then it was Poland, which was even more difficult to negotiate, so after the Treaty of Lisbon was adopted, and after six months, Poland was on the brink of all European media, that it was non-European, that it was a troublemaker, so what did the Polák do? The Polák were able to negotiate the post of President of the European Parliament for their policy. So the opposite is true. Not that troublemakers negotiate less, but vice versa. Those who always nod, those who can't stand their own opinion, those who may not be able to negotiate a compromise, that they approve something and get something for it, so they're embarrassing. We see this in the Czech Republic and in the post of Commissioner, when the portfolio acquired by the Czech Republic, and on that we can no doubt all agree, is not the most important one among the European Commission. So, on the contrary, the experience of our neighbours, Poland, commands us not to nod and disagree with everything Brusel wants, but to be very hard on the negotiations, and when we agree to something, we have some consideration for it. [[12.50 hours]] And I want to ask you something very seriously, because Prime Minister Babiš is not here, which I consider to be a huge problem, and I presume that I will propose to interrupt this point until the Prime Minister's presence, because if we are discussing such an important international treaty, which he has rejected on one of Andrej Eurosummits, I think he should explain to us what the agreement for, what the noding of the head on the eurosummit was for. Maybe the secretary will tell me he traded it for quotas that won't. If he really says that, if he says that the Czech Republic will have an exception from the migration quotas and we will sign up for this fiscal pact, then we can have a debate on whether that price is appropriate, if that is an adequate way of negotiating, if that was a good trade in quotes at that European level. But I do not understand that Andrej Babiš, who is otherwise in the Czech media and in the Chamber of Deputies, is very Eurosceptical, very dryachtical and says that he will not take anything from the European political elite and can promote his interests, but when he goes to Brussels, he will return with the fact that we will adopt a fiscal pact, even if it does not make any sense to us in the first stage as far as the economy is concerned, we are simply adding ourselves to the countries for which Eurofederalism is the dreamy base, and the fiscal pact, as I have already said, is an important step. So I ask the Minister, or anyone, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who, unfortunately, is no longer here, what the Czech Republic is in return for, that as one of the last countries, we will definitely add to the fiscal pact what we have gained at European level. [[finance]] If it is at least a partial price for the European Union not to apply Dublin IV to us, or a mechanism for redistributing asylum seekers, as considered in the European Union. Because if the Prime Minister just went to the eurosummit, he said no without anything, so I consider it a betrayal of Czech interests and we can never trust him again with the Eurorational or Eurosceptical language that he otherwise demonstrates in the Chamber of Deputies and in the media. After all, I see Mr Schwarzenberg, who spoke about it here in one of his last speeches, that politicians say something at home, and when they go to Brussels, they start saying something else. Seems exactly the same to me. Andrej Babiš here is very Eurosceptical, he scolds Brussels, tells how he can negotiate everything thanks to his language equipment, and suddenly he returns from the eurosummit, nods the fiscal pact and nothing for it. Well, I don't quite understand, Madam Secretary. So these are my questions. I hope you'll answer them. I hope you'll admit it's not just about budgetary management, but it's just another step towards centralization. And whether you like it or not, you must accept the fact that by this step, when you want to join the fiscal pact, you are telling the citizens of the Czech Republic that you want the euro in the Czech Republic. Because the fiscal pact, its rules, its regulations will apply when the Czech Republic enters the euro area. You guys are in a big hurry to make a fiscal pact. It can logically be deduced that you are in a terrible rush to the euro. And I really don't believe you when you say you don't, because I remember Andrej Babiš well at the beginning of his political career, when Greece was not a problem and President Zeman wanted to be and was a Euro-Federalist and wanted to quickly adopt the euro in the Czech Republic, because it was for him the step towards further Euro-Federalization, the European State, and the euro he supported, so Andrej Babiš after Miloš Zeman supported the euro, so Andrej Babiš was for the euro. Then a few polls came out. A few surveys have shown that almost 80 percent of people do not want the euro. Meanwhile, the economic crisis erupted and suddenly Miloš Zeman turned around, the euro no longer wants, virtually. he says that he does not want the euro until Greece is in it. And suddenly Andrej Babiš will change his mind, and he doesn't want the euro either. But it brings us a fiscal compact to the House after a while, which has a sense of the Czech Republic only when we are in the euro area. I really don't understand. It suggests that in the finals, you say that you do not wish to join the euro area is just your political position, virtually. not a political, but a marketing attitude that came out of your opinion poll, because voters wouldn't compliment you on it. But in the finals, you crave the euro terribly, so you're taking the steps that are necessary for it to be accepted. One of those steps is signing up for a fiscal pact. Then admit it. That's a legitimate political stance. Some representatives in this Chamber of Deputies want their own currency because they want their own monetary policy. Some politicians in this House want their own budgetary policy because they feel that this is their homework. You wish the opposite. You wish to transfer monetary policy to the European Central Bank. You wish to manage within the fiscal pact used by countries such as Italy, Greece with its debts. Well, say it out loud, then. Don't say you don't want to accept the euro and that the fiscal pact is just something that we shouldn't be behind the troublemakers. You can't be serious. It's a serious political treaty. It's a serious international treaty. It's both political and economic. Political in the sense that it was an important step towards political unification of the European continent in the euro area. Economical in the sense that it transfers other powers of euro area Member States to Brussels. So if you want to transfer the other powers of the Member States to Brussels, then admit it openly. Admit you want the euro, and don't make fools of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll just make sure. You've updated a procedural proposal that you haven't filed yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u16	Yes, I've announced a procedural proposal. With such a serious treaty that Prime Minister Andrej Babiš denied in Brussels, I feel that he should be present at the hearing, and at least he should tell us what he was saying when both Sobotkův and Nečasův' government were able to defend themselves from this fiscal pact. I think that with an international treaty of this magnitude, the Prime Minister should be here, explaining to us his business, which he probably did there, and then we can have some rational debate about it. I'm making a motion to interrupt until Prime Minister Babiš is present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u17	Okay. It is a procedural proposal which I will put to the vote immediately. I call on Members who are not present in the Chamber to appear. [[A large number of Members are coming into the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that a procedural proposal has been made to postpone the hearing, to suspend the discussion of this point and to postpone it until the Prime Minister is present. I think it's clear to everyone what we're going to vote on. There's an application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you. Please log in with your ID cards again. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of the proposal? Who's against it? Voting number 171, 94 Members signed in for 37, versus 18. The motion was not accepted. We will continue to discuss this point. It is Mr Schwarzenberg's turn to make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u18	Mr President, honourable Members, we have heard a blazing speech against the euro. It was mentioned that our Prime Minister also strongly rejected the adoption of the euro. Some may still remember that we have promised and signed a commitment to accept the euro. Obviously, we stick to the advice from dobrý Soldier Švejk in order to get into the European Union: "He should have sworn it to them and then fuck it!" But this faithlessness of Czech politicians will not help us in our reputation. I have the impression that among our politicians, who take care of the credibility of Czech politics, of the promises we have made, of the commitments we have signed, there are certainly some tragedies among them. But I cannot take any more seriously! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u19	Thank you. It's 12:59 p.m., we won't be able to make any more factual remarks or any more applications for the debate. I am therefore interrupting this point. Let me introduce you to the fact that at 14.30 p.m., the Chamber of Deputies will continue with oral interpelations to the Prime Minister. But since Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is excused, there are 13 interpellings on him, so please expect that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the interpelations on the members of the government will continue immediately thereafter. I therefore ask the Members, the Members, who have been drawn to count on it and are here on time. At this point, I am ending the morning meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-001-061.u20	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the adjourned negotiations. I checked you all out, please log in with your I.D. cards. Before it comes to the first interview, I will read the apologies received by the Prime Minister of the Chamber of Deputies. Between 14.30 and 18.00, Mr Kubík apologizes for his work, Mr Volný. He also apologizes for today's meeting from 14.30 for working reasons by Mr Skopeček, from 16.00 to 20.15 for working reasons by Mrs Dubovská (?). Then there is the apology of Mrs Monika Oborná, Mr Pavel Staněk between 14.30 and 19.00 and Mr Radek Koten, also by evening. And between 14.30 and 18.00, Mrs Dražilová and the last pardoned Mr Bělica between 13.00 and 14.30. Well, that's all excuses.
