ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u1	29. Government bill amending Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on Recording of Sales, as amended, and Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended / House print 205/ - First Reading We renegotiated this point on Wednesday, 19 September. The item was interrupted in the general debate. Madam Secretary has already taken her place at the rapporteur's table. The rapporteur for first reading is Mr Jan Volný. I will also ask him to take his place. I would remind you that the organisational committee was originally designated by the rapporteur, Mr Pavel Juříček, but on 14 September the House decided to change the rapporteur to Mr Jan Volný. I will ask you to remain calm in the hall and we will continue with the general debate. I ask, would the appellant or rapporteur possibly want to speak? Well, it doesn't look like it. So, for the general debate, Mr Munzar is now registered, whom I will ask and give him the floor. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] And I'm going to ask the club presidents and the secretary if they have anything to discuss, if I don't want to name my own - would it be possible to transfer the discussion to the lobby? Ambassador, please try.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u2	Okay. I'll try. Ladies and gentlemen -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u3	I'll cut you off. Once again, Mr President, is there any way to keep this discussion down? Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I have some notes here about the EET I want you to meet, although I'm aware I've already spoken to it twice. So I will not speak any longer than is strictly necessary, but the issue is really comprehensive, so I believe that you will pay due attention to me. Throwing businessmen in one bag. That's what I said last time. The permanent control that these entrepreneurs pay for themselves always reminds me of a historical story, and because I like history, I'm gonna tell it here and you're gonna get to know the analogy of this story right away. In 1208 a cathartic crusade was announced, if you want Albanian, in southern France. When the Crusaders conquered the city of Beziers, where 20,000 people lived, including the cathars, and the Catholics, the military commander of the papal legate asked: "Lord, how do we distinguish right - minded Christians from heretics? " And the papal legate of Amaury answered the legendary sentence: "Kill them all, bůh will take them." The analogy is clear. The previous and current government under the baton of the ANO movement has provoked a clear campaign against entrepreneurs, not looking either to the left or to the right. Entrepreneurs are throwing themselves into the same bag with the fact that they pay you decent taxes, and they can't be bothered. It's like a paraphrase for the Legate of Amaury. Keep an eye on everyone, the Financial Administration, and the EET will take over. That's why I introduced you to this historic story. The little ones are the hardest to resist regulation. Those who earn their own money and try to secure their families. They provide such essential services that we are all so happy to use. They contribute their taxes, social and health insurance to common money, employ many other people, not just themselves, and create values in our society, participate in the economic growth and development of the Czech Republic. Their daily efforts and activities are a fundamental prerequisite for our state's economic prosperity. By the way, they also pay for their taxes, including the Ministry of Finance, including the Financial Administration, which should be a service for citizens, not a labor. For this activity they are rewarded with a permanent distrust, which the Financial Administration, the Ministry of Finance, the Government, but also unfortunately some of the members of this House constantly feel. [[11.10 hours]] This mistrust is transferred to the system under the code name EET, where the entrepreneur ensures and pays for his own control for the state. I've already called this place a system where someone else will pay the cost of my return. Is this really running this state as a company? Someone else will pay the cost of my return? Let's try to answer that. Those little businessmen don't have a team of lawyers, accountants, advisors, etc. behind them so that they can somehow get to know the complexity of our laws and get to know each other the most optimal way. It's not a holding company that always finds its way if it wants to. What I blame for all these control reports, EET and many others is that the state has focused on the smallest and most vulnerable. I understand that this is the easiest way for the state, but at the same time for our economy and for the personal lives of these people the most painful way. Especially for Mr Bláha, through Mr President, I will repeat that I consider small and medium-sized enterprises to be an important and, in particular, irreplaceable part of our economy. The share of small and medium-sized enterprises in the total number of active business entities, as based on the latest report on small and medium-sized enterprises in 2016, was 99,8 %. The share of added value of SMEs in 2016 was 56,2 % and the share of employees of SMEs in the total number of employees of the business sector in the Czech Republic in 2016 was over 59 percent. These figures show that their activity is irreplaceable. And when it's not so good, when it's not that economic growth, we'll be happy for every person who can take care of himself, taking care of himself. By the way, we will also be happy for the reason that the governments and finance ministers for YES have so much to do with the operating expenses of the state that someone will have to pay for in the future. Perpetuum mobile, as presented to us in some interviews by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Minister Maláčová, the perpetuum mobile, the greater the operating costs of the state, the greater the salaries in the state administration, the greater its revenues, nowhere is it working, and nowhere will it work. All expenditures of the state will ultimately be paid by the middle class and by the 170 thousand tradesmen from the first and second waves and 300,000 other people in the third and fourth waves. And they're an integral part of the middle class. When I hear Mr. Janeček's chief of financial administration talking about businessmen, their controls, I always remember the very words of Papal Legate Arnold Amaury: Kill them all, bůh takes over. Under his direction, the abuse of the warranty, the insensitive approach of the state administration, supported by incredible calls from the newlyweds, began to prove to the state administration where their wedding guests were accommodated, who ate, what they drank, when she was abducted - perhaps - the bride, under the threat of a fine. It's a very sensitive wedding gift from the Financial Administration. It is just a demonstration of how the Financial Administration has started and how it acts in our state and in our business environment. We all know the story of a proud princess, a well-known scene where a coalman helps the dragon and lets him sleep over, and in the morning he asks, "What about you, coalman? Do you have taxes paid? I guess we all agree it wasn't a positive figure. And I believe that the main character of the Financial Administration is not to lead the Financial Administration to aggressive action to use its powers and actions under the code name Kombajn, in which it doesn't matter that it will destroy nine decent entrepreneurs, especially that it will destroy the one rude. The secretary here repeatedly said we should leave it up to her to clear up the Financial Administration. But I'm afraid you can't change a person. And if you don't take really strong steps that we don't see yet, including personnel, you're putting a signal inside the government, the Financial Administration, and the public that this behavior is okay, that's all right, and you don't want to side with it. And the EET is a symbol of this permanent mistrust. And that's what bothers me as much as possible about the whole thing. You pushed through the EET, so you artificially divided your rhetoric into entrepreneurs and employees, you sowed permanent distrust, which, believe it or not, bothers the honest, because it is undeserved. The company is simply splitting up, but it is very hard to connect, and we do not really, really see those steps to the merger. EET's not the only one. You have introduced further measures, control reports, a reduction in the limit for flat-rate spending, and thus, administratively, over time and financially, you have burdened these entrepreneurs. Bureaucracy is growing, and it bothers entrepreneurs, not only the existing ones, but it discourages young people from entering the business and de facto from being independent. You did not compensate for this increasing burden, you rejected our proposed option and handshake in the form of an increase in the limit for applying spending flat rates. The tax administration is one of the largest in Europe. According to a study by Price Waterhouse Coopers for the World Bank, the average entrepreneur spends 243 hours on this tax-related bureaucracy. In Croatia, which is actually a model, the EET was introduced according to its model, that is 206 hours, in Slovakia 192 hours, in Austria 131 hours, in the UK 110 hours etc. I've already said those numbers once at the point of spending flats. And the secretary here fixed me up with old data and we're better off. I'm just reminding you that I'm based on the Paying Taxes 2018 study. Anyone can make a mistake, but I'm not mad at the secretary for it. Mr. Volný here also corrected me last time for mixing the first and second waves and the third and fourth waves in numbers. I'm sorry it sounded like that. I meant that our company is included in the amount of numbers that are presented as hard data. A total of 18 billion for 2017, i.e. in the year of the first and second waves, according to the public statement of the Prime Minister of this country 10 billion, according to estimates repeatedly published by the Ministry of Finance, 4.7 billion and according to the SAO's opinion referring to the draft State Final Account for 2017 4.1 billion, which is 0.3 percent of the state budget. Not much. In the name of 0.3 percent of the budget, such bullying measures have been introduced, the control that entrepreneurs pay for themselves. However, the credibility of these figures is debatable according to the Supreme Audit Office itself. I again quote his position: The estimated effects of the measures introduced differed significantly in the various documents of the Ministry of Finance. The credibility of these data is questionable because different values are published in the materials for which the method of calculation is not explained and are not supported by an analysis of specific data. But you, head of the Prime Minister, present that as facts. You present it to the public as facts. And I'm going to ask the Secretary of State how the Ministry of Finance will know that the recorded revenue in the EET system has been withheld in the past, and so it is registered because the EET has been introduced. Or it is registered because he came to the entrepreneur a new customer or an existing customer bought more. It's more of a rhetorical question, I won't even ask the Minister for an answer. Of course, it can never be confirmed with 100% certainty, no one can ever know with 100% certainty. Therefore, the revenues achieved thanks to the EET will always remain with the question mark. And I really believe that larger sales are achieved thanks to economic growth, thanks to people's activity, because people make more money and also spend more money. Therefore, the impact on the state's income on the EET is overestimated and all figures relating to revenues are debatable. [[11.20 hours]] On the other hand, expenditures are quite well quantified. Yet, in the explanatory memorandum received from the Ministry of Finance, it is said that it is unrealistic that it can only be general conjecture, because the costs of every entrepreneur are different. So, on the one hand, the proceeds are presented to us as hard data, as hard facts, on the other hand, the costs cannot be exactly calculated. And I even agree with one clause on these costs. These costs are far better estimated than income. Yet government officials are presented as hard data. I've come to an estimate of the cost by buying numbers here last time. If each of these entrepreneurs had one device on average with a purchase, installation, software for CZK 20,000, that's for the first and second wave, for the 170 thousand new entrepreneurs who were included in the first and second wave, it's 3.4 billion just merchant numbers. The cost of internet connection is CZK 500 per month, that's 6,000 per year per year. That's another billion. A very conservative estimate of 4.4 billion to obtain those debatable 4.1 or 4.7 billion crowns. And for those 300,000 entrepreneurs who would now expect the third and fourth wave, we would have the same calculation, i.e. an average of CZK 20,000 to buy equipment, install it, software, it's another 6 billion. Lovely business, by the way, for those who sell these devices. Internet costs CZK 500 per month, 6,000 per year, that's 1.8 billion. I know you're gonna argue that they're just merchant numbers. But they are far more accurate than those revenues that are presented to the public as hard data and EET success. As regards the cost of the State, I have asked the Minister some specific questions. She referred me to study the website www.etrzby.cz. Nevertheless, I would ask her to answer specifically here, so that we may not have any further misunderstanding. So the questions are, I'm going to repeat them: how much were the real ones, not estimated, the costs of implementing the EET? How much was the current cost of its operation? How many civil servants not only had to be recruited because of the EET, but how many civil servants deal with the issue of EET at all? And what are their wage costs? What are the costs of their equipment, their offices, computer equipment, etc.? So are my questions about the special regime, the introduction of the paper EET, if you can call it paper EET, for the smallest. How much is expected to yield from this special scheme? And how much will be the cost for all those officials who will receive those receipts in boxes once a quarter of a year at the IRS, and the paper reports? And how much cargo will be on those officials who control these receipts, archive them, continue to manipulate them? Of course, I am heading towards the proportionality and effectiveness of the scheme. It's a burden on the smallest, not electronic, but paper bureaucracy. Wouldn't it be better and more effective for the little ones to completely cancel? At least for the little ones? To the benefits of the EET that the question mark hangs over. In fact, one return can be determined precisely and it is income for fines. The revenue for fines is the only 100% documented income and benefit of the EET for the state budget. The only one. Was it really worth it? According to the explanatory report, this income reached about CZK 78 million. From 1. 12. 2016 to 28. 5. 2018. By the way, you can see that we are being presented in the explanatory memorandum with alleged revenues for 2017, but with fines for a longer period. But back to the numbers. 78 million received by the State, the state budget, of the 7 677 fines granted, out of a total of 119 037 checks according to the explanatory memorandum. Average fine of CZK 7,000. It's such a tough explanatory note. However, the number of checks shows what kind of whip the Financial Administration put in the hands of businessmen. And the question is, did she approach him with a measure? I don't think so. I think that an aggressive approach in the use of its powers and instruments has also reflected in EET control. In other words, this only documented income from the EET is increased thanks to this aggressive and uncompromising approach. The information I'm getting from the field is awful. The auditors are lurking for every mistake of the entrepreneur's employee. Entrepreneurs often pay not for wanting to hide their sales, but for their employees' mistakes. It could be said that six seven percent of the checks from which the fine will arise reflect the alleged dishonesty of entrepreneurs. In fact, a number of these fines are awarded for employee errors, not for the deliberate dishonesty of entrepreneurs. I'm getting reports of over-hardness of controls, where the Financial Administration is giving fines even for banal offenses, even for the distractment of shopkeepers. I'm going to give you a couple of cases that are known to mediate, so you can get an idea of the process of checks. A media-known case, a case that took place in Holešov, Zlín Region. For the fact that the local newsroom did not issue a receipt and did not register the sales for buying a box of Tic Tacs in the amount of 15 crowns, the owner received a fine of 15 grand. This is 50 per cent more than the average fine for the Financial Administration. The owner appealed against the fine, asked for its cancellation or reduction, as it seemed disproportionate to him. According to him, the whole situation was created by the fact that the part-time worker clicked the wrong place on the small tablet in an attempt to print the receipt, shutting the whole application down, and she became confused in the stress. It was a 71-year-old lady. However, the financial authority assessed this explanation by adding no extenuating facts, plus an additional CZK 1000 fine to the costs of the proceedings. Next case. The owner of a small clothing and haberdashery store received a $3,000 fine at the end of last year due to a violation of the sales registration law. According to the clerks, the clerk registered the payment and issued the receipt only after they told her they were checking. The clerk says she had another purchase on the register, but the women were giving her money, so she took it from them and put it on the counter. When the previous customer paid, the inspectors reportedly immediately told her that she had broken the law. The sales girl then billed the sales and sent it to the system, but according to the controllers, it was a minute later than the payment. It was a purchase of zipper for 30 crowns. And so on. I could read a lot of cases like this here. It seems to you, colleagues and colleagues, all right? In what environment do we want entrepreneurs and businessmen to live, do business, work? Do we want them to live in a friendly environment or in an environment of fear and stress against an inadequate approach of the Financial Administration? In the name of the holy struggle to increase the revenue of the state budget and in the name of permanent preventive distrust of entrepreneurs. To avoid misunderstanding me, I consider most of the employees of the Financial Administration to be decent people who often try to help those entrepreneurs. However, many statements by the highest representatives of our country, the YES movement, the management of the Financial Administration and the pressure on the amount of revenue in the budget at all costs have loosened hands on those who have applied for crusaders in this holy war to return to the comparison at the beginning of my speech. [[11.30 hours]] In my opinion, the EET did not contribute to the cultivation of the business environment, it did not contribute to its settlement. It is mostly paid for by the small ones, especially the self-employed. And you want to expand this tool to another 300,000 entrepreneurs. But frankly, to what end? The craftsman who doesn't issue invoices today will hide his business behind the neighborly aid, EET won't be able to catch him. Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Ferjenčík both said so here through the President. The honest businessman who earns his own money will pay for it again. I received suggestions from the Association of Entrepreneurs and Traders of the Czech Republic, who gathered suggestions and expressions of particular entrepreneurs. I think they should be heard here to give you an idea of the views of simple entrepreneurs and their access to the EET. Example one and quote one: I don't have a physical problem with EET, I have a psychic problem with it when someone says I'm stealing, which I don't. We run the restaurant in our own direction for 18 years and the first thing I did when we started buying a restaurant program and doing everything on my computer. So for us, the EET didn't really mean a hit. The restaurant program could do it as part of the annual support. But in my opinion, the introduction of the EET was insensitive, because, for example, village pubs don't make money considering that they may have had to buy an internet connection for this, which is worth 600 crowns a month, they also have to sell two barrels of beer, 200 beers, and they have to invest in some technique etc., so maybe they have to sell 400 extra beers a month to cover the extra costs for 12 months, and they didn't earn an extra crown. We're in business to make a living and make a living, not to feed someone else. We're trying to sell more so that maybe we can get better or buy something, but not to pay someone else. Another example, motto: Five billion should be increasing the state budget this year thanks to EET. However, this information is misleading, in my view, as there has been a significant increase in the consumption of food and beverages in the reference period. Another statement from the entrepreneur: Fifty thousand to boot EET, new program, computer, two printers, once to EET and touch screen, approx. 600 CZK per month on discs, which of 99 percent ends in the basket, delays it and poisoned customers - here I dare say a few dots - a few hours including a monthly check of additional data. Another statement from the entrepreneur: None of us can doubt that there should be honesty in general, in everything. At the store, too. Many entrepreneurs are seen as cheaters because they didn't take everything to the last crown. Surely there are many dishonest people who steal from the state. And as it turns out, they don't usually have a business license and they do business black. Unfortunately, this costs us all so much that even EET won't solve it. Against this, the EET in places where I often move caused the pub to be closed and the shop in the village. I see among my clients how much time and money they had to spend on this system, which, from my point of view, is a minor violence in legal form. - That's the businessman's quote. - Survival is unfortunately the most common position of small business. So everything would be solved by the next step. After the introduction of honesty, let us now reduce significantly the contributions so that the entrepreneur does not pay nearly 80 percent of the state's profits. It is in the form of social and health insurance, especially taxes of all kinds from real estate, road, income, VAT, contributions for employees, thanks to the minimum wage and not to the support of short-time work. It is clear, however, that if the state continues to enforce non-economic laws for which thousands of officials have to hire to carry out the transaction, there will never be enough costs for software and administration. In conclusion, if we leave the EET, then it is not cosmetic, but it really needs to reduce the other contributions significantly so that honesty pays off and is not liquidated. So much for EET from individual entrepreneurs. When I sum it all up, there's a big question mark hanging over the efficiency and benefits of the system. It brings high costs on the part of entrepreneurs. The EET has made a clear contribution to the end of some businessmen's business, because it was the famous last straw. He led to an increase in services and goods. Is there really anyone here in this great House who thinks that the third and fourth waves will be different? What is the proper task of the House? Why are we even here? Is it really the most important task of the House to increase the revenue of the state budget at all costs? Or is it our job to create a friendly environment for personal activities and people's lives? I am clearly in favour of creating a favourable business environment for active value-creating people in order to show them that our country needs them and appreciates them. The EET clearly does not contribute to this. [[Mr. Bláha brings water to the counter.]] Thank you, my colleague, through Mr President. I'll take that as a challenge to continue. What is the purpose of this? All the billions you promised us, but what question mark is there? Because I've clearly explained here that there's a question mark hanging over the EET revenue. What are the billions for which kindergartens, highways, etc. should be built?? Four whole one billion. Only six billion will cost taxpayers a fare discount. So on the one hand, a great burden to get as much from entrepreneurs as possible and on the other hand, spending often impenetrable. As far as motorways are concerned, we can see what happened to EET money, alleged EET money for 2017. Have they been invested? Did the highways stop? As shown by the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office, the State Final Account for 2017 and the investments last year have been the lowest in the last 12 years. The lowest investment in the last 12 years. Instead of increasing investment at a time of economic growth, traffic grew. And by increasing, of course, the revenue of the state, not only because of EET measures, but mainly because of economic growth, it means in other words that this budget was championship in the increase in operating costs, even at the expense of investment. The negative ratio is constantly increasing, the bad ratio is increasing, the traffic ratio is increasing at the expense of investment in our state budget. I think you should pay more attention to at least the same carefulness that you are trying to obtain every crown in income from entrepreneurs, so with the same care you should also pay attention to the expenses of our state. Because when the economic recession comes, who's gonna pay for the increased operating expenses? Will the popular or populist measures such as the fare discount be abolished? Or is there another way to make another crown out of someone to pay for it? On the one hand, you are suffocating entrepreneurs with various measures to get as much income as possible, a debatable three tenths of a percent of the state budget, and, on the other hand, you are throwing them away with no definite efficiency. I'm afraid that's not a good attitude, because people realize it, they're starting to realize it. So let us change this together, as Mr Bláha likes to say, through Mr President, and let us no longer torment entrepreneurs with other bureaucracies, other measures and help them improve the business environment. And unfortunately, this proposal does not lead to that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u5	I thank you, and your performance has raised some factual points. First Mr. Bláha. Mr Hájek will then be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I won't keep you long, I'll just respond to the words of the previous speaker. I think you had to make a picture of the credibility of his words yourself, because everyone in our Republic has an overview of what's going on in the restaurant business, that most people work there black or partially black, and that has the greatest impact on our economy, because if we're just talking about tax collection, they're really small in these services sectors. The most we can get is the impact on social and health. Maybe if you were to figure out how much choice of social and health has increased, and not because of the economy, but because of the EET, you'd be amazed how much money has flowed into the state register. If we really want to help, then we should be dealing with what the businessman cares most, and that's - it's always been number one or number one - statistical reporting. They're outnumbered today by execution, insolvency, because they're the ones that are the ones that are most burdened by most of the companies these days. And the little ones, they don't even take people like that to work anymore because they don't know what to do with it. Finally, I would like to say what is most troubling, there are control issues, which means the same checks with the same documents are constantly repeated. If you are interested, I have prepared the whole set, called it SAP - it is six points that I want to help entrepreneurs reduce the administrative burden. As for matters of honesty or dishonesty - those who really record today and want to record honestly, they don't mind, no way, even directly helping them uncover dishonest employees. Last time I was here, I was talking about having ten establishments, and not to brag about how big I am or how small, but the fact that I'm going to be weighed down in a month with a maximum of two hours, those ten establishments, two hours a month, so when I'm alone, it doesn't burden me at all. We want to digitize in the future. And we want to digitize that on paper? If we want to digitize, we have to go this way, because this trip will help us to help even more entrepreneurs that they might not even have to do at the end of the tax and other reports. If we want to digitize, we have to go the way we connect with the businessman, connect all the things he's doing so we can do the taxes for him. Try to think about it, because most of those really honest people want it all to work, and they don't have a problem with EET. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u7	Thank you, too. Another factual point, Mr Hájek, then Mr Španěl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u8	Mr President, colleagues, I listened very carefully to Mr Munzar through Mr President, and again, you were juggling numbers. You said that 20,000 crowns is the average price or cost of setting up an EET. I'd like to show you a little educational insert here now. We discussed gardening or gardening business here last time, Ferjenčík Gardening, so let me give you an example: I am Ferjenčík in České Budějovice and as a smart, young, intelligent person I downloaded an application called EET plus, which is free of charge available on a smartphone. In the EET plus app, when you contact or contact the Ministry of Finance, with the database, a client comes along, for example. He wants to buy a kilo of grass seeds. I don't know, Mr. Ferjenčík, how much a kilo of weed, grass seeds, you would advise me, I don't know this issue very well, so I'll give you 1,000 crowns. In this application, which is free - Mr Munzar, look at me, you are not looking at me, you are not looking at me through the President. [[The President draws attention to the speaker]] I'll tap in the amount of CZK 1,000. There's the "Build a receipt" button, I press "Build a receipt," there's a choice I want VAT, in this case I have a test receipt, I get an eight-digit code. I'll either make a deal with the customer that I'll e-mail it to him, and in the e-mail after entering that eight-digit code, a receipt will appear to him, or I, as the gardener Ferjenčík, will connect the printer and print out this receipt for him. It's free, it's fast and if I sell ten times a day, it's really effective, free and fast. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u9	Thank you. Mr. Španěl will be next and Mr. Ferjenčík will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u10	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also closely watched Mr Munzar's performance, and since I have actually done business since 1991 as a small businessman, I have not had ten establishments, I consider ten establishments to be quite a good business and rather a larger businessman, so I am leaning towards it, and I think that even the SPD, that much easier than introducing electronic records of sales that really destroys the smallest ones and affects the smallest ones, would be to introduce a simple flat-rate one, that is also not a very good word, rather a contract tax, and really only for the smallest ones, so that small establishments in villages can operate without unnecessary bureaucratic burdens. I think that even with this simple procedure, the state budget would be just as full as the introduction of electronic sales records. The question is, what would he do with the whole bureaucratic apparatus that EET has to deal with and feed? I literally found myself in Mr. Munzar's words, and I consider EET really a fag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u11	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, President Stanjura will prepare all factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond through Mr President to Mr Bláh, because it seems to me that he has not noticed that the EET already applies to those restaurants. He tells us that restaurants work black or half black. I was looking at the data from the statistical office and it is true that there are about 20 percent of employees in the hospitality sector who take a salary very close to the minimum wage, so there is some kind of relevant argument that there is a high percentage of people there, so someone is paying them a hand salary, but therefore there has been two years of EET paying and nothing has happened. That's what needs to be realized. You're saying that you're dealing with a problem with the third and fourth waves, but the problem you're talking about, which was supposed to be solved by the first and second waves, hasn't been solved at all. EET has been valid for restaurants for two years, and according to Government Member Bláha, it is said that restaurants are still occupied in black. So either the measure doesn't work, and why we want to expand it, or it does, but it's not data, so it seems completely absurd to me to support EET, saying that it is necessary to deal with restaurant employment when apparently EET didn't contribute to the restaurant's social and health insurance. And the other thing. The income from social and health insurance and income tax, which we see as a much higher income of the state budget, is primarily due, of course, to minimal unemployment, and there is the difference, and wage growth, partly to minimum wage growth, but definitely not to EET.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u13	Your time. Thank you. Excellent. Mr Stanjura, Mr Kupka, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u14	Thank you for the floor. I must say that Mr Bláha and I agree that bureaucracy needs to be significantly reduced for those who are in business and not just for them. I'm sure we agree on that. But what bothers me and what I can't deal with when someone here from the House of Deputies has said, as Mr Bláha said - you all know it, in most restaurants they employ themselves black. I don't have that kind of insight. I don't think it's true. But let's assume it's true. What did the government of the YES movement do in five years to suppress the phenomenon? You haven't come from the opposition, you've been here for five years. What did you do for it? Or do we say once a year every year - the big problem is black employment? I agree that the problem is, I think there are other areas of the economy where the problem is bigger than in restaurants and hospitality, I will talk about it when I have my proper contribution to the grey economy and where there are the biggest problems, but this is how to say that in most restaurants... Then, in particular, government MPs come to me individually and whisper to me: well, I have a friend, I have five friends, I have seven friends, and they all do that. And then it's up to us to take some legal measures not to do that. In Opava, there is a central government body, and this is the General Labour Safety Inspectorate, which is among others. He's struggling with black employment. I recommend reading their annual reports, a personal debate with the people who run the office. They're serious, and they're doing something about it. But it's much more difficult to do this than to walk around and do fictitious purchases for 20 crowns and to fine those who allegedly didn't take one or two crowns to VAT.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u15	Thank you. Now, Mr Kupka with a point of fact, Mr Munzar will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u16	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond briefly to the sentence on how significant economic benefits the VAT collection has or has. e-booking of sales caused. Today, in the Journal Law, another number came out of the whole plejada, which has reached the public since the beginning of the launch of the EET. It's obvious juggling numbers because today we're after 10 billion. from the Prime Minister to 5.5 billion. from previous data of the Ministry of Finance they learned that the return from the introduction of the EET after clearing the economic growth of the Czech Republic and also the reduced rate for catering operations should be 4.7 billion. Crowns. So the distraction is actually twice the Prime Minister's estimate. What does that mean? When we call for a clear number on the table, precise calculations will be made before the Chamber of Deputies really decides on the next wave of EET. Not the exact sum of inaccurate numbers, but the clear methodology of how the Ministry came up with individual data, what it was based on, so that it was clear why we were taking the whole next step. By the way, if the yield is 4.7 billion. CZK, so this means that it succeeded in the entire package of money collected for VAT, i.e. 382 billion. CZK, to achieve improvement by only 1.2%. 1,2% is the extra revenue that the Ministry of Finance is talking about. So if we're going to have such a serious impact on the entire business sector because of 1.2%, we need to step on the brake immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u17	Thank you. Mr Munzar, then Mr Koten, then Mr Jelínek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond to Mr Hájek through you. Well, that's exactly how the explanatory note to the third and fourth wave is written, saying that it's general conjecture that it's unrealistic to quantify it. And I compared it here to the marketing events in the supermarkets last time - you can get a program from 5,000, you can get a cash register from 3,000. Well, if you come to the supermarket after that, you'll find that what you need is twice as expensive as the $3,000 device. You'll never buy a crown. I also said here that I'm coming out of one premiere in my merchant numbers, which are really just merchant numbers, that I'm counting 20 thousand, but I'm counting 20 thousand. one establishment for an entrepreneur. A lot of businessmen have a lot more than that. So in that estimate, they clearly compensate the few entrepreneurs, who just need to install it on their mobile phone. But all these things are just estimates. But far more accurate than an estimate of the benefits of EET, because indeed - and I can't ask the Minister to confirm 100% that the Ministry of Finance knows that the payment registered in EET came because an EET was introduced or because a new customer or an existing customer had spent more on it. He can't know that, yet the returns are presented to us and the public as hard data, but there's a question mark over them. The costs and numbers of buyers are much more accurate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u19	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Koten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u20	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. As has already been said here from the mouth of my previous speakers, we are still arguing here whether or not the EET did. I think if we look at the results, some plus about 4.7 billion, the increase in officials by about 6.5,000. with a cost of about 5 billion, so I still don't see the economic benefit for the Czech Republic, because if we select an extra 4.7 billion, 5 billion. We give EET officials, I don't count any operation of the system, IT services, etc., so here we get to the red numbers. And I would very much like to ask the Minister if she could respond in any way. And it almost feels like we're walking around with a 152 millimeter howitzer, which is quite a large weapon on the Tatra chassis, basically a mosquito. So I would very much like to know here what the economic benefits of the EET are, except for the increased bureaucracy that we all love to fight here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u21	Thank you. Another point in fact, Mr Jelínek, then Mr Bláha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, through Mr President, would like to make a comment on Mr Bláh's agreement with him that controls are very burdensome to small entrepreneurs, especially for example. control reports, which then cost the small businessman a thousand crowns a month for his accounts, because it is charged to him by his accounting office. Then through Mr President to colleague Hájek. Well, if it were that easy with the app, then maybe I wouldn't have a problem with it. It Gardening Ferjenčík needs to have a warehouse farm, it needs to receive to the warehouse, issue from the warehouse. And if there's one thing in his app, the other thing goes in his notebook, or I don't know, in the third millennium it's definitely on his computer, we're gonna make everything very difficult for him. And he's gonna have to buy new accounts now that he's connected to the EET, he's gonna need a credit card payment, not just cash, it's got to be connected to the EET again. It's not really that simple. And let's not talk about the changes that that small businessman has to make to get involved in that system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u23	Thank you. Mr Bláha, Mr Ferjenčík, then Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u24	Dear colleagues, my colleague, I promise not to be able to join the EET on this day. And I'm just gonna give you an opinion on the economy. Have you thought about it when the car manufacturer launches a new model of the car on the market, whether it's in the red numbers or in the plus ones? Well, of course in the red because the development of each new type costs incredible money. And they rely on the fact that if the model is successful, it's gradually worth producing the model. [[12.00 hours]] And so is the EET. If you did the car in half, that means you wouldn't even put on the seats and the roof, it wouldn't just work, it wouldn't be successful. So if we get the EET to the end, then believe that the success and the financial positive impact will come. It needs to be finished, it needs to be discussed, it needs to be introduced to all the files, and then it will work. And believe that together, we will come to know how to move it and control it where it needs to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u25	Thank you. Real remarks have been made again, so the Minister will wait with priority rights, he can still sit down. With priority rights, Mr Ferjenčík, then Mr Koten. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u26	Thank you for the floor. I hope that the debate will continue in the next days of negotiations, because it would be a great shame to lose Mr Bláha's insights. And then I just wanted to say to the microphone that I had nothing to do with Ferjenčík Gardening in České Budějovice, and I hope that because of me, there will be no control over them from the tax office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u27	Thank you. Have a nice noon. Another point of fact was made by Mr Radek Koten, and Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I have forgotten one aspect that unfortunately haunts me for quite a long time since the introduction of the EET. It is disturbing restaurants, because in Jihlava I used to go to the Workers' House, where there was a very good restaurant with a good kitchen, the same in Prosek, unfortunately these establishments are already closed. So here I see the positive contribution of the EET. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u29	Thank you. I will therefore now ask for Mr Vojtěch Munzar's speech on a factual basis. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to respond briefly to my colleague Bláha through you. Compare the EET to the car, it really gets rough and pulls behind the sewn. EETs do not buy entrepreneurs to serve them. They buy EETs because someone told them to. And he ordered them to ensure permanent, preventive online surveillance and control of what was going on at their premises. It's EET. So even the cost of the state's return was transferred to entrepreneurs. So comparing it to the car company isn't really a comparison that we can accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u31	Thank you. Now the chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura, Mr Jan Skopeček will be prepared. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u32	It is said that every comparison limps, but some are so unique that one can remember it. So small businessmen are carmakers, I'm sure I'll remember that, I haven't thought of that yet, that's really unique. And they still have the model in the red numbers. Well, there's a new model in red. That's what I'm saying. But I wanted to respond to another thing, as Mr. Bláha said, that we should do it. If it's all at once, the model's on the move, the money's on the move. Such a simple question for the Member through the Vice-President. Who introduced the EET gradually? Who invented four waves? Who put it through? Was it the opposition or the YES movement? Thank you for answering the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u33	Thank you. And now, Mr Jan Skopeček, with the facts. Mr Lubomír Španěl will be ready. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u34	Thank you very much. It's already been said here. I also wanted to ask Mr Bláha if he would happen to remember who EET was, and he compared it to the prototype of the car, and who introduced him here. It was the YES movement. And at the debate itself, we said that the project was wrong from the very beginning. We were very critical of the fact that it was after stages, that it was unprepared. Mr. Colleague, your terminology, you've prepared the wreckage, you've prepared the bastard you let on the roads. You knew that this son of a bitch was dangerous, that this son of a bitch wasn't gonna work, and that this son of a bitch was gonna be threatening road users, in this case an entrepreneur. So you let the wreck go on those roads. You were supposed to do it properly first, not any waves, but prepare the law well so that the Constitutional Court wouldn't shoot him down, and then he could drive on that road at least a little car that can be met and which we don't have to worry about on the road.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u35	Thank you. And so far, the final de facto. Member Lubomír Španěl. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that when a new system is in place, it takes a while to sit down. I understand that. But even before the introduction of the EET, I was terribly worried about how many exceptions would eventually have to be introduced, how we would keep changing these rules. And that is precisely what worries Czech entrepreneurs that something is constantly changing, that there are no permanent rules. And now you've noticed that since the EET was introduced, we haven't really talked about anything else. That's my point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u37	Thank you. We will therefore return to standard applications for the general debate. Mr. Ferjenčík, I'll ask him to speak. Mr. Dominik Feri will be ready. [[The rapporteur's note that the Minister of Finance is to speak.]] I was taking the wheel, I didn't see you now. I have here a comment by Minister Alena Schillerová PP, ah, priority right. [[Glee in the hall.]] Okay. I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll turn myself in. I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said here, because of course they didn't leave me calm. Especially the fact that an article in Law came out today. When one reads it whole, it is based on the figures provided by the Ministry of Finance in a completely correct manner, but there was a very incorrect headline and a torn out one sentence which, of course, caused what Mr Kupka said here. At this point, perhaps my reaction is already hanging on the News. On Monday, he'll go out on the Law and, of course, on the Ministry of Finance's website, who wants to read the whole thing, because I'm assuming the News won't print the whole thing. My reaction is that the Ministry of Finance estimates are being implemented. Since the beginning of the preparation of electronic sales log, the Ministry of Finance estimates the annual contribution - and you will find this in all of our resources on the site, I have repeated it x-times in the media - to collect value added tax and collect income tax completely consistently, at an amount of 18 billion. We always say that if four waves go, our conservative estimate, conservative means that it's realistic and that we're counting it's going to be higher, it's going to be 18 billion. That, I'll underline, if there's four waves going, there's two. We stress that this contribution represents an increase in collection after the start of all phases of electronic sales records. I will repeat to the start of the first phase that it occurred on 1 December 2016. The start of the second phase occurred on 1 March 2017. The third and fourth stages, as you well know, were to take place during this year, i.e. on 1 March and 1 June, but they were postponed by the Constitutional Court. It is therefore understandable that without the start of the remaining two phases, recovery cannot reach 18 billion. Now, please, more numbers. In 2017, VAT is the only VAT, because it did not go to another tax when the EET started to apply from 1 December 2016, so in 2017, it will only be reflected in VAT, because the income is one year late. We predicted 4.3 for 2017 and were selected thanks to EET 4.7, so our estimates are confirmed - 400 miles. There was an extra one. The original estimate, calculated for 2018, and there already accumulates income because tax returns are filed on 1 April, 1 July and, of course, legal persons having a marketing year, as well as in September, October, depends on how they are coming out of the marketing year and the estimates of the Ministry of Finance, which envisaged the start of the third and fourth stages, speaks, and this is again traceable, x-times I said, about the amount, I published a table after the last meeting of this Chamber of Deputies, 12.3 billion. And even though these phases could not be started this year - we all know why, I said it again, I will not repeat it - we will achieve a positive recovery at the end of 11.7 billion. Ever since the press conference that was mentioned here, she's been talking about 10 billion. [[12.10 hours]] Otherwise, I would like to say that we have a calculation methodology, we presented it some time ago at a press conference, the methodology is available, the way we calculate these impacts and we are cleaning it up, please, from the growth of the economy, I would like to stress that, we have sophisticatedly prepared them and we have explained them also to the SAO. I could quote the explanation right now. It's a cash base, acrual base, acrual methodology, cash methodology, the SAO basically managed to explain it. If you want, I can quote it here, or I will answer anyone in writing or as part of an interpellation to admit what has been said here, and we have been attacked for the SAO's position to simply explain it to you. So I can easily look at it now, but I'm telling you, it's a very technical debate that the technical teams of the Ministry of Finance have been involved in, and we explained that we just have to look at it, the cash base is in that year of the payments, the accrual methodology is based on the tax period, and these are completely different very technical ways of calculating it, and we have those, and when the SAO comes to us, we completely demonstrate in detail, of course, in cooperation with the Financial Administration, how we calculate it. I would also like to remind you that a relatively significant reduction in value added tax is also part of this law. Whatever criticism here is that we have three rates, it is simply not somewhat overlooked that we are doing a further reduction in value added tax on catering services, including evergreen brewed beer, minor repairs of shoes, leather products, textile products, clothing and bicycles, hairdressing and barbers' services, social services, but also aqueous and sewerage, let it not fit, which citizens will feel, because basically we will see to it that this reduced VAT is reflected in the consumer's final price. It is simply not possible, for example - I will use here a quote from Vice Prime Minister Brabec - in Israel, 50 crowns on average were paid for a cube and 80 crowns in the Czech Republic. So let's not forget that we have a pretty significant and significant reduction in value added tax here. And one more point like that. It says here: Entrepreneurs tell us - from the mouth of individual Members, I do not want to quote anybody here - entrepreneurs complain, he complains, he complains. I'm gonna say it again, I've already said it here, and I've said it on the budget committee, and I'm gonna do it again, because I'm allowed to say it here, the amendment was made in cooperation with the business unions and associations. They are the Association of Traditional Czech Trade, Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, Chamber of Commerce, Association of Industry and Transport, Association of Trade and Tourism, Association of Hotels and Restaurants of the Czech Republic, Confederation of Employers and Business Unions etc. I also have the number of members that are covering. A novel was created in cooperation with them. I invited them at the very beginning, I gave them three variants, and I chose the option that was the majority opinion. We were constantly communicating with them during the novel, not just the proper external commentary procedure, but also outside the external commentary procedure. And I called them just before the amendment went to the government, and before I was finally ready to send them into the legislative process. I have obtained their consent here to say that they will actively support me in all the committees of the Chamber of Deputies, that is, above all, the Guarantee Budget Committee, or other committees where the Chamber of Deputies will order this law, and will present concrete experience in the functioning of electronic sales records. The fact that they welcome her, why they support her, and why it would be the worst thing that could happen if the electronic record of half-way sales remained means only for first- and second-wave entrepreneurs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u39	That was Secretary Alena Schillerová. Now I'll read two apologies. Mr Rostislav Vyzula apologizes from 11.30 to the end of the day for family reasons and Minister Jan Hamáček apologises from 12 to 14 hours for working reasons. Now I have two factual points here. First, Mr Vojtěch Munzar and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u40	I would like to thank the Minister for her performance, however, in those numbers, in the calculation, the unknown change enters right at the beginning, the most important one that can be based on whether the payment is actually registered and came for EET, or it came because it is economic growth and that people spend more, they have more consumption, etc. That means we can count anything, but the unknown transformation at the beginning always leaves a question mark on the calculations and on the estimates and assumptions of how much EET brought. Here's the argument that some professional associations representing entrepreneurs, not all of them in the past advocated the introduction of the EET, so one day it's a good idea that business associations will come up with such a solution, and if we're here to put forward proposals for business unions to raise spending flats again, it's not appropriate. It's not a good time. It's not a good time. However, I am concerned that these views are subject to the opinions of larger businesses, including supermarkets, etc., because for them the alignment of the environment and the introduction of the EET means that the smaller ones are practically ending. And because it's over, the bigger ones are running out of competition. So, of course, they're on fire for it. That's perfectly understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u41	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u42	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond briefly to the Ministry of Finance's methodical approach. I'll take a closer look at the methodology, and I'm glad it's supposed to be public about how the Ministry of Finance reached the 4.7 billion. I wanted to point out what happened with the inspection report. Michal Škop, a data analyst, calculated according to the method used by the government to quantify - or did the following thing. He took the method by which the government respectively. The Ministry of Finance used the same method for 2013, 2014, 2010, 2011 when the control report did not exist, but at that time VAT rates did not change. And according to the same method, according to which the control report currently pays 10 billion. for a year, in 2014 it was 6 billion. and in 2011 3 billion. So much for the quality of the Ministry of Finance's work to assess the impact of his measures. I highly recommend this analysis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u43	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Ferjenčík, you are also the first to be entered into the general debate. You'll go straight to the general one, so you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u44	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to smash my performance, and in those factual remarks I was really merely acting specifically in response to the previous speakers. What we consider to be the fundamental problem of the government's proposal to the EET is that it combines two things that we do not think should be merged. He simultaneously very slightly, but at least slightly mitigates the impact of the EET on the smallest ones and simultaneously introduces the third and fourth wave. We absolutely do not agree with this procedure that at the same time the mitigation and at the same time the massive enlargement of the EET is being discussed. That is why we have submitted House Press number 222, which is on the agenda of this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and in this press we can discuss the mitigation of the impact of the EET on the smallest entrepreneurs. We're suggesting that the EET doesn't concern VAT payers, and we can certainly talk about other borders, but this one was the easiest thing to do administratively. Anyway, as part of the 222 press, we can talk about the impact of the EET on the smallest businessman. And we consider it a foul from the government that, at the same time as the debate on the mitigation, it introduces a third and fourth wave with which we fundamentally disagree. First of all, we disagree with her because we believe that she bullies the honest ones, places other responsibilities on them, and the dishonest ones simply ignore them. They just don't report the payments, they get it in cash, without a receipt, and the state doesn't raise any extra money. So that's what bothers us about the government's progress. Another thing that bothers us is that the government has introduced a number of relatively restrictive measures over the past few years to increase tax revenue. Perhaps now there is no point in discussing whether it has actually succeeded, but there are control reports, there is an EET, a whole series of measures that have brought new bureaucratic responsibilities to entrepreneurs. And that was actually the government's flagship in the past period. And what we regret is that there was absolutely no reflection that would say: O.K., now we have introduced a number of new obligations, we have tightened our supervision, the Financial Administration is going far more strictly on hedge orders today than it has done in the past, the amounts that are secured are much smaller, it simply affects much smaller entrepreneurs. Thus, the government has imposed these obligations in this way and there is no process that would lead in the opposite direction, in order to cancel unnecessary obligations to simplify something. It doesn't even take place that there's a portal through which entrepreneurs can report their EET sales, and it'll generate tax returns. I wish that the EET would be voluntary and that the system by the state would bring such added value to entrepreneurs that they would volunteer to it to facilitate bureaucracy. If this were to arise, a system where revenue can be reported, where expenditure can be reported, and which will automatically generate all those control reporting obligations, the type of tax return, so if the Ministry of Finance works on such a project, we will, of course, support it. But there's no such thing. Instead of volunteering to be useful, it's just a state freak. And the secretary here was talking about the problem when it's first and second and wave and it's not the third and fourth wave. I don't understand who has a problem with that. Anyone who wants to have a business across those fields can, of course, register voluntarily. So I don't understand why because someone who can register voluntarily doesn't register, we should expand it as an obligation to everyone. So I'd like to clarify this. I would probably conclude with a response to Mr Bláha, who spoke about how he has six measures here that need to be adopted, how to simplify business in the Czech Republic. And I really don't understand why we don't start with these six measures, why this House doesn't first deal with how to simplify life for entrepreneurs, how to reduce the barriers to the transition from garage traffic to real business. After all, one of the biggest problems of the Czech Republic in the field of business is that someone will start - the classic example is that someone makes jam, is very good at it, at world level, but the transition from the garage operation to commercial, let's say, is extremely demanding in the Czech Republic. There are standards that make life very difficult, extremely strict hygiene requirements, completely incomparable, for example, with Great Britain. And these are the things that we think the government should look at and that would lead to a much larger increase in tax revenues in the finals than the EET, which, in the context of the state budget, is essentially a symbolic amount. The fact that fare discounts compensate the entire EET, which will burden several hundred thousand people, is completely bizarre. That is why we completely disagree with the expansion of the EET when the government does nothing to compensate for the increased bureaucracy. The measure is ill-conceived, it will not work, and if we really want to reduce the burden on the smallest entrepreneurs, we just need to discuss within the House's 222 press, which we have tabled, this same meeting is on the agenda. So there's absolutely no reason to introduce a third and fourth wave if we're just trying to simplify someone's life. And one final point about that. The paper evidence is a typical bureaucratic approach of the Ministry, which absolutely cannot work. I can't imagine those IRS officials digging around in some boxes of receipts that get paid by businessmen who have a bad Internet connection, and they're gonna enforce some underpayments or impose some fines. It's completely head-to-head, the way it's designed. The amount of 200 000 cash payments per year is absolutely ridiculous. These aren't people who can make a living doing business, and it's just a very weak libation for defending the massive expansion of the EET by the third and fourth waves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u45	Well, thank you. I will now read three apologies before prepared with the priority right of Secretary Alena Schillerová. So Mr Richter apologises from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for health reasons, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček apologises from 12 o'clock to the end of the day and Mrs Monika Jarošová from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for work reasons. So, Madam Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I will respond quickly to Mr Ferjenčík. Am I saying the name right? So, in terms of reducing the administrative burden, we're working very hard on this, and you know it. I've said that a few times here, and I remind you. My absolutely pilot project is an online financial office. We've been working on it ever since I got into office. That means exactly what you're saying. The link, the use of registers, the huge amount of information that the Financial Administration has today, the interconnection of these registers, these records, and the acquisition of them into tax returns, so that in essence - my big model is the Estonian model, where it takes two minutes to fill out a tax return. And it's not just that we're talking about it. I have a project team, if you come to the Treasury Department, I'll show you, it works project-wise. Basically, we have analyzed the most appropriate option and are currently working on the preparation of an open selection procedure. It's not easy, and it's my priority, and I want it in the near future. I've factored out a target in two years, and I'm doing absolutely everything for it. And that is a noticeable reduction in the administrative burden. In addition, we have a mini project with the Czech Statistical Office. I'm going to present it in a very short time, once we've had these things analyzed, that we're just going to look for duplicates and different types of forms that over the years, and that's not in the last four years, that's just in x, in a number of years that have come out here, and we're going to do everything we can to minimize them in some way. And a little sip to the safety instructions. I know it's going on again, but the cases you're quoting here that are in the media, I'm not defending. I'm just doing my analysis, and I'm doing my homework, like I said several times. But I just want to remind you that there isn't one from lately. Everyone I've seen so far - and it's not that I'm saying it's okay. I'm just analyzing these things. But they're all from 2013, 2014. Following the publication of the methodology, which was issued in the middle of last year, there is not a single one, which is also confirmed by the tax administration section of the Chamber of Tax Advisors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u47	Thank you. And now your speech, Madam Secretary, has raised factual points. So first, Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Mr. Chairman of the ODS's ODS's ODS, Zdeněk Stanjura, will be prepared. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u48	Thank you for the floor. Just a very brief reaction. That's exactly what we consider a problem. You're saying we're working very hard on this, in two years' time, hopefully. In two years, you're promising to simplify it, while you're implementing the EET now, the third and fourth wave. That's a completely absurd approach. First there's gonna be simplification, then there's gonna be responsibilities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u49	Thank you and now the chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u50	Thank you for the floor. There's no reason not to trust the Minister that they've been working very hard on this for five years. For five years, the YES movement has been in the hands of the Ministry of Finance. Remember, now I don't know if it was 2016, then the Minister of Finance with a great pompa, a big press conference, at the end of the parliamentary term, in ribbons, I will hand over to my successor or my successor a completely new draft Income Tax Act, which will simplify tax returns in a very rapid way. It wasn't a press conference of the opposition, it wasn't a promise of the opposition. We can ask, one year after the election: What did you get in those bows, Madam Secretary? Either Andrej Babiš was right, and you've been holding it in a drawer for a year, that great idea in bows wrapped in plates, or Andrej Babiš overestimated his powers, and no such strong proposal for a change on income tax is ready. But I would like to appreciate the ingenuity, creativity and marketing of the YES movement in this area. Many of you, if you're filing your own tax returns like me and you're not in business, you'll find that you already have a choice. That either you have the wrong old misunderstood form, which has four sides, or after the intense work of the ANO movement, the Ministry of Finance received the form, which has only two sides. And how are they different? It is fundamentally different in the size of the font, fundamentally. It is fundamentally different in that there are, for example, deductible items not each on the row and sometimes there are two on the row. And then there's a bunch of useless ones that aren't really there, which almost nobody used. Do we have an analysis of the number of tax exemptions, how many uses? The analysis exists, and what did the Treasury do about it? Nothing at all. No surprises.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u51	With priority rights, Minister Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u52	Then I must respond, Prime Minister Stanjur. I wrote it down for myself in those pink bows. I didn't know I was writing this for myself, but I have it written. And it's my job. But, of course, the Income Tax Act and the exceptions are processed, everything is done. But we are now ahead of the fact that we need to find a political consensus, and at this point we are starting negotiations with a coalition partner. We haven't had it in so long, and we've been talking budget and a whole bunch of things. So there's definitely no delay. And we're actually going to be looking for whether we're even able to agree on those proposals, especially those exceptions. This is a political issue, it is not simply a subject of substance and expertise anymore, and I will therefore stand up to whether we are going into an amendment to the existing law - which, for example, the Chamber of Tax Advisors calls for, and I will also talk to them about it, because it is a professional chamber, it is a partner for me, a clear partner who brings me information from the other side again - or whether this law will go on. But a whole series of things that we promised, like accelerated depreciation, such as creating reserves for insurance companies and so on, the important things for entrepreneurs will just be there or elsewhere. So these things are ready. And the tax return, and you know it, I know you know it, the two-party tax return - you're testing me, if I'm listening to you, I'm listening very carefully - the two-party confession is for employees only. There's less than a million of them. And it's the only thing that the Financial Administration could actually simplify in the current complex legislation. So let's just get this straight. But I know you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u53	Thank you and two factual points again. President Stanjura and Mr Španěl will be prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u54	I don't just know, Madam Secretary, I said it's for those who don't do business. That's what I said, so it's okay. And imagine if we'd kept our word here. I'm not an employee, and I use it logically. I'm not an employee of the Chamber of Deputies, I'm not an employee, and I use it because I use deductible items, of course. And so on. But again, I remember the great pomp and the misleading claim of how you simplified it. The simplification isn't... and you really have... You could have left the form as it was. It would be much better if we didn't have those papers at all than that I have two types of form that differ by having some items next to each other. [[Nesroz.]] We can really agree on that. I think we both have the form before our eyes. I last filled it out at the end of March. When I asked where it was, in the drawer. [[Nesroz.]] I believe you. We will conduct political negotiations, we have a coalition partner for a while. Five years, since January 2014, you have been in a coalition with the Social Democrats. Five years! And look at their real power. Fifteen votes. With them, you will not enforce any change in the tax system. We are in favour of conducting political negotiations. We have a lot more votes than the Social Democrats do, so let's talk about it. It's not like you're gonna have another year. I am able to estimate - I apologise to President Chvojka - what the social democracy approach will be. Sector tax, raise rate, let's go, everyone else is against it. My recommendation is, don't waste your time with them. Of course you can. Deal with the opposition. After all, the new Income Tax Act should survive the term of office. This should be a joint effort, and we are prepared for such a debate. And we know how hard it is to eradicate one single exception and how it is very easy to approve a new exception in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. The political cost ratio is incomparable. Once introduced, it's almost impossible to cancel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u55	Thank you and now Mr Španěl. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry to keep you guys a little busy today, but it's kind of my theme that I've been on as a little businessman. We can take it as such a small question to the Minister. Let me put it this way. I started a business in the '90s, and basically as soon as I could, I volunteered to pay VAT. EET was introduced mainly because small businessmen called for a business environment to be aligned. I'll tell you that all this time I've been dealing with an unfair business and that I was the one who called to settle this business environment. As you well know, small businesses have written down whole families, thus avoiding VAT, employing themselves black because the unfair competition kept quite low margins in restaurants. Nevertheless, through Mr President, I would have such a question for the Minister. Have we really been so incompetent over the years that there was no other way to straighten this environment than by introducing an EET? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u57	Thank you. And now the standard order. I have no interest in a factual point here, so I therefore call on Mr Dominik Feri to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. My colleague Bláha always says one great sentence with love and understanding. He says - I'll tell you something, so we know what we're talking about here. And it's very nice to me, so let me tell you something here, so we know what we're talking about here. I'm going to introduce you here to the different positions of constitutional judges regarding the discovery that swept the third and fourth waves of EET. It'll be shorter. So first of all, a different opinion from Judge Milada Tomková on part of the statement I found the file mark Pl. ÚS 26/16 and its reasons. I'll take it, let's say, contextually, I'm fair on it. [[12.40 hours]] By reference number I. the finding was, inter alia, annulled § 37 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) in the words "until the end of the 15th calendar month following the date of entry into force of this law" and (c) of Act No. 112/2016 Sb., on the record of sales. In short, this prevented the gradual inclusion of some temporarily excluded sales among the so-called registered sales within the meaning of § 3 para. 2 of the Act on Recording of Sales. In the words of the finding, the start of the remaining stages of the EET was cancelled. Contrary to the Constitutional Court Act No. 182/1993 Coll., as the Constitutional Court has long and consistently interpreted, the majority of the plenary took the decision to abolish the cited provisions without appropriate support in the proposal of the group of Members under consideration. The procedure of the majority was thus outside the limits laid down by law - Art. Article 2 (1) (a) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 2 (2) of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, Art. Article 2 (1) (a) 2 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms - moreover, essentially without any explanation. Therefore, I do not agree with that part of operative part I and with the relevant justification for the finding and apply a different position to them. Article 2 (1) (a) Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Article 4 (1) (a) (a) entrusts the Constitutional Court with decisions on the abolition of laws if they are contrary to constitutional order. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 The Constitutional Court, acting on a proposal from entities actively legitimized under the Constitutional According to § 64 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of CRR The Senate or the plenary of the Constitutional Court may also make such a proposal, but only in connection with its own decision-making. The Constitutional Court decides on the basis of a proposal, two principles in the Constitutional Court's case law relate. Firstly, the Constitutional Court is bound by the petition in its decision-making. Secondly, the appellants are burdened with the claim, see also Section 34 para. 1 of the Constitutional Court Act. The fact that the Constitutional Court is bound by the petition is stressed in the Constitutional Court's case law from the very beginning, see, for example, the draft file mark by the Constitutional Court's plenary of 16/93 of 24. 5. 1994, and it is firmly confirmed in the latest decisions, for example, the file mark of the Constitutional Court of 5/16 of 11. 10. 2016 or order of the file mark by the plenary of the Constitutional Court of 25/16 of 14. 11. 2017. The ultra-petitum procedure is not resorted to by the Constitutional Court even in cases where the abolition of the contested provisions distorts the system of law or the link of the repealed provisions to the provisions not contested by the proposal, see the finding of the file mark by the Constitutional Court 3/02 of the 13th Chamber of the Constitutional Court. 8. 2002. The only established exception is the situation where, as a result of the abolition of a certain legal provision by a derogation found by the Constitutional Court, the provision of another, in substance from the previous dependent, loses reasonable sense, it is losing the validity of its normative existence. I refer to the finding of the file mark by the plenary of the Constitutional Court 15/01 of 31. 10. 2001. However, this exception was clearly not the case at present, and it will therefore continue to be a party. The binding nature of petit is often stated in contrast to the fact that the Constitutional Court, on the contrary, is not bound by the reasoning of the proposal. However, this does not change the fact that the appellants are burdening the claim. Therefore, if the appellant opposes the content of the non-compliance with the constitutional order, for the purposes of constitutional review it is not sufficient only to abolish the proposed law, or rather. its individual provisions, but it is also necessary to state on its part the reason for the objection of non-constitution, the finding of the file mark by the Constitutional Court of 7/03 of 18. 8. 2004. If the appellant does not bear this burden, such a proposal cannot be regarded as contradictory to the provisions of Paragraph 34 (1) of the EC Treaty. 1 of the Act on the Constitutional Court, and therefore incompetent meritorních hearing, found the file mark of the Board of the Constitutional Court 2/08 of 23. 4. 2008. The Constitutional Court can therefore examine only those provisions on which explicit claims and arguments of the appellant are made, in the rest the proposal must be rejected as manifestly unfounded, the finding of the file mark of the Constitutional Court 58/05 of 8. 6. 2010. This principle was then transferred by the Constitutional Court into the decision on the compliance of international treaties with constitutional order, the finding of the file mark of the Board of the Constitutional Court 19/08 of 26. 11. 2008. The Constitutional Court referred here to a conclusion based on an analogy of its constant caselaw in the field of law review, which focuses only on the proposal of the qualifiedly contested and justified provisions of the international treaty in question. It follows from the above that, although the Constitutional Court is not bound by the reasoning of the proposal, its procedure cannot be an act of favour. Therefore, any further own review must have a substance-related effect on these reasons. On the contrary, this possibility cannot serve to make use of a particular proposal by the Constitutional Court and, without any reference to the argument made in abstract terms, to prioritize its own line of reasoning on the basis of which it would examine and, where appropriate, repeal the contested legislation or part of it. This is particularly true in cases where a legislation is challenged only for the way it is adopted, nor would it be contested at the same time by its substantive non-compliance, and where a finding as to whether it has been adopted in a manner established by the Constitutional Order is not capable of establishing an obstacle to a case decided against any subsequent review of the contested provisions, the finding of the file mark of the court of the Constitutional Court of 1/12 of 27. 11. 2012. The comparison of the argument put forward in paragraph 113 and subsequently the finding with the proposal of a group of Members, including a number of amendments thereto, does not allow for any conclusion other than that which the majority of the Member States have made in short and well. Draft of the Group of Members for the opening of proceedings of 1 January 2005 6. 2016 is conceived fairly unambiguously. The applicant sought the annulment of the entire Act on Recording of Sales due to hardened defects in the legislative process and, alternatively, in the event that the Constitutional Court did not find these defects relevant, proposed the repeal of Section 3, Section 4, Section 6, Section 10 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 of the Act on Recording of Sales. The alternative petit was argued, in a simple way, by imposing undue burdens on small taxpayers, distorting the right to privacy or, where appropriate, contrary to the law. The appellant added her proposal three times, and in the first supplement she proposed to cancel also § 5 letter. (b) and Section 18, para. 2 of the Act, with regard to toughened problems in the case of cash-free payments, by supplementing No. 2 remained petit unchanged by supplementing No. 3 extended the potential petite to the cancellation of § 20 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) - the presentation of the tax identification number on the receipt - and to propose another potential petit in the form of a broad statement by which the Act on the registration of sales would be abolished as regards the taxpayers of the income tax of natural persons who have less decisive income than CZK 1,800,000 per year. Article 37 (1) (a) (ii) of the CRR. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) and (c) the appellant shall not, in either of these four submissions or in its replies, refer to the parties' observations. Even with the best of will, it cannot be concluded that it would like to abolish these provisions at all with regard to their content, and not only with regard to the small taxpayers, let alone making relevant arguments in this regard, so as to bear the burden of argument. koneckonců all, in view of the complainant's procedural activity and the ongoing addition of the proposal, it is clear that she was well aware of her responsibilities as the appellant, and if she had not proposed certain provisions of the Act for annulment on account of their content, she did so on purpose. Application for annulment of § 37 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) in the words "until the end of the 15th calendar month after the date of entry into force of this law" and in letters. (c) In fact, the bill on the record of sales was only made by the appellant in the context of the proposal to abolish the entire law because of the alleged defects in the legislative process, the proposed broad statement was narrower, only the small payers were affected. However, this obligation to bear the burden of the claim in terms of compliance with constitutional order - in the event that the Constitutional Court does not find grounds for repealing the law in the legislative process - does not, of course, relieve it, see, for example, the finding of the file mark of the Board of the Constitutional Court of 21/14 of 30. 6. In addition, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Assaulting the procedure for the adoption or extradition of the law cannot, for any reason, constitute a bianco check for the Constitutional Court to review the entire law. After all, the Act on the Constitutional Court in § 68 para. 2 distinguishes two stages of the review of standards: 1) whether their content is consistent with constitutional order and 2) whether they have been adopted and issued within the limits of the Constitutional Authority and in a constitutionally prescribed manner, and the caselaw of the Constitutional Court consistently differentiates between the two stages in the sense that, while the review of the adoption and issue of the standard is based on the proposal and its arguments, the review of the content of the standard is based on the application and its arguments. However, despite the clearly defined range of questions to be addressed by the finding, the majority of the plenary took the initiative and resorted to an astonishing degree of judicial activism, where, despite the arguments of the appellant aimed solely at the shortcomings of the legislative process, to the protection of small taxpayers, to the right to privacy, to the excess of the record of cash-free payments and to the reservation of the law, although at least a hint of the link attempted, see below, it took up the issue of the gradual inclusion of certain sales among the registered sales, which the legislature discussed in the final, so-called. common provisions of the law. [[12.50 hours]] Compliance with the conditions under which the Constitutional Court approaches the review of laws and other standards is not an overstretched formalism. On the contrary, it is an expression of the fundamental principles of the rule of law, namely the binding nature of the state, virtually. public authorities by law - Article 2 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union Article 3 (3) of the Constitution and Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall apply. 2 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Neither is the Constitutional Court exempt from this obligation. On the contrary, given its position and the absence of a watchdog, since the acts of the Constitutional Court are usually final and unreviewable, the Constitutional Court should pay double attention to compliance with these principles, which, moreover, has long argued that it is doing through the principle of self-limitation. All the more astonishing is the lax approach of the majority of the plenary to respect the limits of its competence, especially when it is bound by only one law besides the Constitution - see Article 88 (2) of the Treaty. 2 The Constitution, which, moreover, interprets itself. Antonin Scalia, in a different opinion on the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States of America in the Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania versus Casey, noted that every public authority is tempted to eliminate the brakes of its own power. In that case, the majority of the court allegedly succumbed to this temptation. Here we offer the same conclusion. It would be at least expected that if most of the diaper had already decided to defy its own more than 20 years of case law to loosen the terms of the review of laws, virtually. their individual provisions, will support this judicature diversion of detailed and convincing argument. However, paragraphs 113 et seq., which address the question of the inclusion of temporarily excluded sales among sales registered, are, to put it mildly, embarrassed. The majority of the plenary notes in paragraph 113 that it had to consider the effects of abolishing the Government's authorisation to provide exemptions from compulsory registration on the related provisions of the Act. This simple statement seems to be the only settlement of the majority with the question of the scope of the review of the Sales Recording Act. An explanation of why Section 37 (1) (b) is related to the above. (b) and (c) the law, and not other provisions, cannot be found in the decision. After all, even if this explanation were here, the reasons for examining the provisions in question would not have been given without further consideration. A possible support for such a procedure could perhaps be found in the already cited finding a file mark by the Constitutional Court of 1/12, where the Constitutional Court has, exceptionally, taken a review of a provision which has not been proposed for annulment in terms of its content, even as the entire law has now been proposed for annulment. However, at that time the Constitutional Court took into account the fact that, although the provision was not expressly contested separately, the arguments of the appellant applied to the provisions of the adjoining - the burden of the claim was therefore fulfilled - which led the Constitutional Court to conclude in detail that it is possible to proceed to the repeal of the provision in question in a situation where, without such annulment, there would be no rescinding of the anti-constitutional effects of the contested regulation. Here, however, the situation is different. The majority did not agree to a partial annulment of § 37 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) and (c) the Law, on the basis that the appellant's arguments would also affect those provisions, and certainly not that the constitutional deficits of other provisions would not be healed without the repeal of the provisions cited. Most did not justify their conclusion by protecting small taxpayers, protecting privacy or perhaps subject to the law. The reason for the cancellation under point 116 is that - I quote: "The selected solution for the third and fourth phase of the introduction of the new registration was accepted without a comprehensive consideration of all possible impacts on the remaining part of the entities'. Although the appellant also mentioned the shortcomings in the law adopted in the light of future impacts, this is again only in connection with the argument on the protection of small taxpayers, see para. 1 supplementing proposal No 2 of 17. 2. This was followed by the addition of No. 3 with a broad statement to abolish the law in relation to small-scale taxpayers. The majority of the diaper did not testify to this argument, see paragraph 80. If this lack of reasoning is really to justify the abolition of the parts of the law in question, the question is why other provisions have not been reviewed and repealed for the same reasons and, on the contrary, it was stated that all the consequences cannot be anticipated - paragraph 122. It can be added that the justification for this part of the finding is striking for other reasons as well. Point 118 gives rise to the concern of the majority in order not to impose an obligation which could subsequently be abolished, in a situation where in two places, these are paragraphs 114 and 119, and the majority also notes that the solutions presented are not necessarily constitutionally inadmissible. Moreover, if the majority of the legislator is accusing him of not taking into account all the possible effects of the law, then it essentially asks the legislator to do the impossible, which is to some extent what it admits in paragraph 116. After all, the Constitutional Court usually adds in the proceedings on abstract control of standards that it is not possible to estimate in advance all the impacts of the standard under review, so it keeps the door open for a possible future review of specific situations. Paradoxically so most of the diaper does even now at point 112, as has already been said. [[in the basement, point 122 is replaced by the following:]] We're almost at the end of the first separate boat. I do not claim that the provisions of § 37 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) in the words "until the end of the 15th calendar month after the date of entry into force of this law" and in letters. (c) the Act on Recording of Sales Unconstitutional or Non-Constitutional. Unfortunately, this is not clearly said even by the majority who are still repealing these provisions. The point is that the Constitutional Court should not have dealt with these provisions in terms of their content at all. If the majority decided to do so, it should have dealt with the existing case law in such a way as to make such a practice impossible. Finally, if she could deal with it, there would be a far more precise and understandable explanation of the reasons for which the provisions in question are unconstitutional. This is the case according to § 70 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. All that's missing from the discovery. Instead, the majority of the legislature's plenary points out that when adopting regulatory measures in the rule of law when felling forests, they should not fly splinters - paragraph 116. I add that the same maximum should be applied in the exercise of the power of the constitutional protection authority, otherwise the splinter threatens to get stuck in its own eye. So that's how different Judge Milada Tomková's position is. It was a little more critical of the finding itself. And now let me introduce you to the different position of Judge Ludvík David on the same Constitutional Court finding: I would point out in advance that I agree with the finding. Therefore, my dissenting note concerns only the justification for the finding, namely the part below. The text of the finding is part VII. In other essential points, I respect the full justification of the finding. It was not possible enough for me not to dissent against the methodology used in the finding if I had voted in the past, or was even a judge rapporteur in matters which were, in any case, comparable to the issue of electronic sales records - in short, EET, and also Act No. 112/2016 Sb. as a law on EET - and at the same time used the standard, test, quite different intensity to assess the constitutionality of the law or the specific situation. While in the finding the file mark to the plenary of the Constitutional Court 44/13 bail to fuel distributors and in the finding the file mark the second Senate of the Constitutional Court 443/16, entry into the list of legal associates, applied the Constitutional Court, in relation to the right to free choice of profession - Article 26 (2) of the Law. 1 A stricter proportionality test is used in the current plenary finding, although less demanding for other social rights as usual, a rationality test - paragraph 71 et seq. It is precisely the application of a rationality test, which respects the legislation still reasonable, that has now made it impossible to take account of the internal differentiation of different groups of taxpayers. It also directly follows from the provisions of Section 37 of the Act on Electronic Recording of Sales. An important definition of the essential content of the affected fundamental law has become to assess the issue of the Plenary finding. Such a right is - according to paragraph 72 of the finding - the right to a free choice of profession, and the right to enter into business is also affected, and secondarily the right to the protection of property. The essential content of the right to freedom of choice of profession is determined by the finding of the file mark by the Constitutional Court on 24/99. This finding concludes that the State is required to maintain the meaning and substance of the fundamental right under Article 26 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4 The Charter must not allow a certain area of business to be prevented, must not create a state monopoly and must maintain profit-making possibilities, all taking into account the important factors of a particular social area. [[13.00 hours]] These attributes of the nature of the right to a free choice of profession and, in fact, the right to conduct the current plenary finding have been described in a consistent manner. One of them, however, does not seem to count very much on preventing a certain area of entrepreneurial activity. An important factor in business activities is in our context the social status of the taxpayer - along with its needs, surroundings, real possibilities - included in the third and fourth stages of EET in 2018. In conclusion, paragraph 113 of the Plenary finding states that the government was to protect taxpayers from possible hardness according to the explanatory memorandum. Let me clarify: it should protect them from at least the difficult and often controversial impact of certain provisions of the law. I am referring to, for example, doctors including veterinary, small village vendors, smaller food producers, lawyers-individuals, and among all especially people of retirement age who still enjoy their profession, earn money, and many other people are in the immediate place of dependents. However much lawmakers or executive village culture may not like it, and the Internet Revolution 4.0 is not the place for these people, yet this heretical grey infrastructure exists here and we should not give it up faster than it is necessary. Perhaps the lead of social relations has its own development. Back to the methodology of constitutional review, however. The right to free choice of business and the right to do business have a strong value charge, belongs to classic liberal freedoms - an element of choice. Connectivity with freedom of man is particularly close to fundamental human rights by choosing a free profession. Indisputably, the value of human dignity is present here. Where the State places disproportionate legal obstacles in the pursuit of the profession it has chosen or has pursued for years, it also interferes with its right to respect for private life within the meaning of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. All the more so it was desirable now to test the legal regulation of EET, respectively. its remaining, potentially emerging parts, by measuring the public interest on the one hand, and the rights and freedoms of the individual on the other, namely by testing proportionality. In such a test, EET legislation could certainly be found to pursue a legitimate objective and generally appropriate. It is, however, a question of whether it would go through a step in its necessity - the more moderate means of communicating the sales of records can certainly be discussed - and whether it would succeed even in the most demanding step in measuring in the narrowest sense. It would be premature to continue to conclude. In the meantime, let each one assess the situation for himself. However, if a pilot test of proportionality has not been carried out, this may not have immediately harmed the findings in the text of the finding and, in particular, in its statements of conclusions. However, there was still a chance to tell the legislators even closer, executively, how, or better said, to proceed with further regulatory steps that will inevitably follow sooner or later. If this is not the case, there is no choice but to await further submissions which will eventually arrive at the Constitutional Court. So much different opinion of Judge Ludvík David on the decision of the Constitutional Court in question. And now let me also remove a part of the different position of judges Vojtěch Šimíček, Jaromír Jirsa, Tomáš Lichovník, Kateřina Šimáčková and David Uhlíř against statement IV. the finding of the file mark by the plenary of the Constitutional Court 26/16. We apply a different opinion to IV, rejecting the application in the remainder and the corresponding part of the reasoning of the decision by the Constitutional Court of 26/16 in accordance with the provisions of Section 14 of the Act. on the Constitutional Court, since we consider that the proposal was to be granted, and Act No. 112/2016 Sb., on the record of sales, was to be cancelled as a non-constitutional. In particular, the following facts lead us to this view. It's not easy being a businessman. It takes a bit of personal courage and a lot of patience, because business-related duties are huge quantities across the entire legal order. In the area of occupational safety, social security, personalistics, hygiene and, of course, taxes. The State, which, according to the case law of the Constitutional Court, is the result of a social contract, should therefore always weigh well in the introduction of any new obligation which makes it difficult for entrepreneurs to carry out their activities. In this introduction, the legislator should very carefully assess whether this additional obligation is indeed necessary and whether it is not unduly aggravating the business environment. These measures should not be considered in isolation, but in the context of restrictions on existing ones. Lapidally speaking, the state should ask itself whether it is not the proverbial last drop, after which the imaginary cup overflows. The Constitutional Court's task in the subsequent review is to consider whether it is appropriate to press the button already. We believe that tax discipline is not always the greatest value, i.e. a legitimate target. At times, the interest in it should give way somewhat to maintaining a strong layer of active, creative, self-confident and courageous people who risk their existence in the business rather than being employed, and these people, especially the smaller ones among them, i.e. people with turnover, which is not the same as profit, e.g. in units of millions of crowns per year, the state should make the administration associated with business as much as possible easier, even at the cost of a smaller tax return, which is marginal here anyway. The economy will be robust and will survive hard times better just if there is sufficient diversity and self-sufficient, to help from the common independent business layer will remain in the outskirts - pubs and other establishments in small municipalities, small and self-employed entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, students, etc. For many of these people, however, EET is the proverbial last drop that drives them out of business or drives them into a grey economy, which will pave the way for their big competitors towards a corporate, large-scale and subsidising state. This creates a small hyperrich elite and then only worse or better paid employees. We can thus come into conflict with the material nature of democracy. It is possible only in a society made up of a substantial layer of really free, independent people. The right to enter into business as laid down in Article 26 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be exercised in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 26 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 The Charter means the right to a free choice of everyone to provide their means of life, the right to decide whether a person will depend on someone, dependent activity, employment, or take care of himself, with all the risks involved, i.e. business. The right to conduct business is derived from the right to own and dispose of property freely. However, it also has to do with the ban on forced labour. Experience from the previous totalitarian regime testifies to this. The Communist regime not only allowed business but punished them directly. The combination of acts of speculation, illicit enterprise and abstinence forced everyone to be employed. She forced him to depend on almost one employer, namely the state. Let us mention a very small group of private farmers and a slightly larger group of cooperative workers. A society in which the vast majority of citizens depend on one or several employers for their livelihood is not a free society. Therefore, the right to engage in one of the fundamental rights creating conditions for a society of free citizens. Respect for freedom of any kind, not just business, must always come first. However, the declared goal of the EET does not correspond to that respect. The first purpose of work and business is the creation of material values and the provision of services to other members of society. The fact that work and business can be taxed is secondary to the successful functioning of the company. While a functioning company can be imagined funding its needs from taxing other facts, such as immovable property, natural wealth, deposits in accounts, bank transactions or general consumption, cannot exist without work and business. Therefore, prior to the introduction of the EET, the state should have honestly and thoroughly examined whether all the less invasive and harassing options available to it to control the correct and fair collection of taxes had been exhausted. However, none of this has in any way happened, although the introduction of the EET is undoubtedly another administrative and financial burden on entrepreneurs. Sticking to the mere fact that the introduction of the EET is very likely to lead to an increase in tax collection, it is a measure that will stand up to the test of reasonableness, and therefore it will also stand up from a constitutionally legal point of view, because it is very dangerous and exploitable. The introduction of the EET under a publicly presented, albeit empirically unsubstantiated political impression that no one pays taxes and therefore it is appropriate to tighten their selection, namely, we consider it equally unreasonable and unfair in our consequences as leaving the whole class after school just because a single pupil disturbed a lot. Unfortunately, this entry is a fundamental philosophy of the contested law and it is not solvable by eliminating only a few of its most vicious interventions in privacy and freedom of business. [[13.10 hours]] Therefore, when assessing the constitutionality of the EET system, the Constitutional Court should not be satisfied with a rationality test, but should have subjected it to a far more stringent proportionality test. However, in general, the laws which affect economic, social and cultural rights referred to in Article 2 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union apply. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 1 The Charter, when examining a possible conflict with constitutional order, is measured only by a milder test of rationality, does not always apply this rule. In particular, the following three cases: (a) In the course of the rationality test, we conclude at the second step that legal regulation negates the core of constitutionally guaranteed economic law, denies its very existence, substance or purpose. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 4 The Charter, so that constitutional guarantees of economic rights cannot be entirely negated by law, because otherwise their constitutional regulation would lack any practical meaning. Similarly, the Constitutional Court already stated in the finding the file mark to the plenary of the Constitutional Court 54/10, Karenční čas II, on social rights. (b) The line between fundamental human rights and economic and social rights is unscathed, so sometimes interference with economic law also means interference with fundamental human rights, which is logically and functionally linked to it. For example. the right to engage in and engage in other economic activities, Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Decision Imanent part of ownership is the right to possess, dispose of, buy, sell, rent or otherwise burden with own property, i.e. to manage it. Therefore, legal interference with the right to conduct a business may also be a significant intervention in the right of ownership. For example, a negative expression of such intervention can be a negative expression. setting the maximum prices for which an entrepreneur may sell his goods or regulating the rent that the lessor may require from the tenants. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 2 The Charter is also merely another expression of the fundamental right to do all that is not prohibited by law. (c) The apparent legal regulation of economic law hides interference with fundamental human law, which is clearly unrelated to the economic law in question. Examined legal regulation, which is associated with economic law, respectively. social or cultural, interferes - for example, beyond gratitude - with one of the fundamental rights that we can identify as genuine fundamental rights - the right of ownership, information self-determination, equality on occasion. We believe that the EET case under consideration met at least the first and third for the above reasons why it should have been subjected to a proportionality test. First, the contested legislation, in the case of small businessmen, affects the very nature of the right to engage in business and to provide resources for their living needs in their work. The boundary between the right to enter into business and the right to work is not quite clear, since the business of an independent businessman or a member of a free profession is often just another way of implementing his right to work. The EET for small businessmen thus directly affects the core of their right to acquire resources for their living needs by working, since its administrative complexity and the technical difficulty of a separate business for many less exposed individuals is essentially excluded. Secondly, the introduction of the EET is implied by interference with the right to protection against unauthorised interference in private life and unauthorised collection of human data. IV. We therefore believe that the State has implemented the EET without having made an honest use of all the options and instruments it already had. Just by example: If 400 new officials have to be adopted in connection with the introduction of the EET, see the explanatory memorandum to the law, House press 513, available on the website of the Chamber of Deputies, was it not far more appropriate to devote this human potential to greater intensity of the current tax controls? All the more so, the existing technical possibilities enabled the Financial Administration to identify and target suspicious tax entities without the EET in subsequent checks. Although we do not deny that the introduction of an EET can indeed result in a higher tax return than the previous situation, this cannot be expected to occur to a greater extent in relation to the total tax revenue of the State. Indeed, none of this results from the official observations of the Ministry of Finance, and the increase in tax collection is rather marginal compared to total tax revenues. We consider this to be very important in the use of the constitutional test of rationality, respectively. proportionality in assessing interventions in constitutionally guaranteed fundamental rights. In line with the position of the appellants, we consider that the introduction of electronic sales records constitutes a very significant intervention in the rights of the entities concerned. As mentioned above, this is primarily about ownership, the right to freely engage in business, equality and intervention in information self-determination. The introduction of the EET represents a new financial cost for each entrepreneur. These costs are not one-off, as they might appear at first sight. It is not only about the acquisition of the relevant equipment, but also about monthly payments for the software used and other difficult to calculate costs, accounting, training of employees, receipt paper, etc. It is clear that much more these costs affect small-scale entrepreneurs who achieve a small turnover and, in many cases, have such costs that income tax does not apply at all, but for example. They employ employees and pay other taxes, so they are definitely not stowaways of our tax or social system. An example of this is the market where cheap products are sold, but for each of them a separate receipt must be issued. We also remind you that often one entrepreneur is not enough with one technical device, but must have more such equipment if he is doing, for example. in several small stores at the same time. In other words, this is a typical example of a fundamentally different intervention in the legal status of different entities in the absence of a measure. We even argue that the introduction of electronic sales records logically affects mainly the smallest traders, because they are mainly paid in cash.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u59	Mr. Ambassador, I have a feeling we've got a lot of noise in the room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u60	I feel the same way, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u61	I'd like to ask for peace. Please pay attention to the speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Where was I... And now I see it. Lapidally speaking, a taxpayer providing goods or services to a large number of clients, but only in small value, will logically be in a significantly more disadvantageous position than a taxpayer who will only have a few of those clients. Not to mention that electronic sales records are not at all related to cash-free payments, which are always required by law when the amounts are higher than EUR 10,000 - see cust. No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and the financing of terrorism. Thus, more significant payments are excluded from the EET scheme and, on the contrary, all payments remain in this system, which are often completely marginal. Paradoxically, the electronic record of sales from the nature of the case is focused mainly on smaller taxpayers and more significantly affects those of them who have less or even no profit. For small entrepreneurs, this is not only about immediate financial costs, but also about the burden on the entrepreneur of other worries, which he already has over his head. Nor can it be overlooked that older, smaller entrepreneurs without computer knowledge and online connection are destroyed by law as a class. The majority opinion that they should accept that they are victims of the fourth industrial revolution, as mentioned in paragraph 79 of the finding, then sounds quite insensitive in this context. For the reasons set out above, we also strongly disagree with the argument in paragraph 67, the reasoning of the finding that the Act on Recording of Sales does not entail any tax or other obligation which directly and purposefully affects the property sphere of those to whom the registration obligation affects. This claim is not true. After all, the legislator himself stated in Law No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, a one-off tax discount of CZK 5 000, as he was aware of the financial burden for entrepreneurs. [[13.20 hours]] However, we note that this discount does not address anything significant - it is small, does not concern everyone and is only one-time and input, while keeping electronic records is a permanent measure and the costs of its operation are ongoing. The state thus transfers its obligations to entrepreneurs, which it has in tax collection, without reasonable compensation. Another situation would be, for example, if the State had reduced the costs of operating the EET each year, but in the form of a genuine tax discount and not just a deductible load. The important social dimension of entrepreneurship, in particular services, small shops or rural pubs, which, honestly and rightly grasped, not only benefits entrepreneurs, but also enables their citizens to meet, lead social life and improve the quality of their lives in smaller municipalities. Another deficit of established electronic sales record consists of intervention in information self-determination. We refer here accordingly to the conclusions of the Federal Constitutional Court in the Rasterfahndung case, with which the reference found by the Constitutional Court also works the file mark by the Constitutional Court plenary 24/10 and in which the right to information self-determination is defined as the right of everyone to protection against unlimited acquisition, storage, use and transmission of individualised data. It is even stated explicitly that preventive police investigation is also compatible with the right to information self-determination only if a specific threat is given to significant legal values such as the security of the state or the threat to the life or freedom of an individual, and this risk cannot be regarded as a foreign policy international situation that occurred after 11 September 2001. Although it is true that the record of sales does not really significantly expand the scope of the data provided, it cannot be overlooked at the same time that a fundamental change occurred at the rate of provision, availability and centralisation of this information. This leads to a stronger intervention in the right to information self-determination, thereby increasing the potential risk of abuse. It is clear from the nature of the matter that information has a different price in time, so it is indeed a fundamental difference between the fact that entrepreneurs are obliged to provide information about their activities only once a year when submitting income tax returns or online. In this context, there is neither the importance nor the aspect of mandatory confidentiality associated with the performance of certain activities and professions, typically doctors, lawyers or tax advisors. The introduction of an electronic record of sales involves a flat-rate intervention in this obligation, as the Financial Administration will have on-line information about the payments made to clients of these specific professions. It is precisely the fact that it is information on-line, in some cases it can lead to the identification of clients and specific services provided. The additional risk of the electronic record-keeping system lies in its exploitability. Through this system, there is a concentration of sensitive business information in one place. Although it cannot be based on the a prior premise of the dishonesty of the state administration, at the same time, it cannot be assumed that concentrated data on tax payers will never be abused in any way. V. And I note that V is the last part of that dissent. In conclusion, for all the above reasons, we consider the contested law to be unconstitutional and therefore the proposed proposal should be fully granted. If the Constitutional Court intends to tolerate, with reference to a rationality test, even so strong and undiferenced interventions in the business environment and in the fundamental rights of tax entities, the question is what role it intends to continue to play in the constitutional system. The optimism of its review should be the opposite: not to insist that further regulation and restrictions will still stand, because, after all, it may bring more money on the taxes collected, but whether it is really necessary. In other words, it is not only the right to freely engage in the matter, but also the fundamental rights - the right of ownership or protection of privacy - that the Constitutional Court should have consistently applied the proportionality test instead of the test of reasonableness. And then press the button, even against the first two stages of electronic sales log implementation. Vojtěch Šimíček, Jaromír Jirsa, Tomáš Lichovník, Kateřina Šimáčková and David Uhlíř signed in Brno on 12 December 2017. If you have listened to at least part of this separate vote of several constitutional judges, I think it is quite obvious that they have given our opinion why electronic record of sales is a faggot, and especially in relation to small entrepreneurs. For this reason, of the ones described here, it is de facto a criticism of the entire law and, in a way, it is also a reflection of de lege ferenda, so for this reason we join the motion to reject this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u63	Thank you, too. Before I invite another speaker, I have a note. Between 13:00 and 14:00, Mr Válek apologizes to us for working reasons. I would now give the floor to Minister Schillerová, who is registered with priority rights. Mr Ferjenčík will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I won't talk long. I would like to thank Mr Ferim for reading the dissenting opinions that basically support the EET, so thank you very much. He read the dissenting position of Mrs. Constitutional Judge Tomková, who basically stood up for the creators of the EET in this opinion, because she said that, in the event of the postponement of the third and fourth waves, the Constitutional Court did not, in substance, respect the scope of the proposal in its final opinion, i.e., went above this proposal. The dissenting position of the Constitutional Judge David, read by Mr Feri, is also not critical of the EET. He only regrets that he had not been subjected to the Constitutional Court's failure to submit to a greater proportionality test instead of a more general test, which means that it was essentially a lot of minority positions, but rather supportive of the EET. The one he read, the opposing and dissenting one, de facto, Mr Munzar has already read to us here. It's just a little bit on the edge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u65	Thank you, too. I now beg Mr Ferjenčík, who is the last to be entered into the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u66	Thank you for the floor. I used the space provided by Dominik Feri to learn the methodology for calculating the impact of the introduction of electronic sales records from the Ministry of Finance website. I admit that I'm quite shocked at the way the claim that it's worth 4.7 billion is made. and promises it 18 billion items etc. The whole structure is based on the fact that, allegedly, after the introduction of sales records in Croatia, there has been an increase in retail sales by 14 % and in catering services by 40 %, and this results from the contribution of EET in the Czech Republic, with a factor of two thirds of the Croatian level being determined on the basis of an expert estimate. So here it says "in Croatia it brought this, in the Czech Republic it brings two thirds of Croatia" and if by chance there is an increase in sales in those segments by a given amount, then the Ministry of Finance automatically assumes that this is the credit of EET. That's completely absurd. I was expecting you to do some qualitative analysis. [[The secretary objects off the mic.]] I'll ask the D.O.D. for a new analysis. [[13.30 hours]] The second thing that fascinates me is the assumption of phase three and phase four. Here's the assumption from the Ministry that we can capture 75 percent of unconfessed sales according to the statistical office. That's the number again set by the expert estimate. There is no methodology at all to justify the number of 75 percent. It seems completely absurd to me if we have 100 billion according to the statistical office. Unconfessed sales, that by introducing an EET for the 3rd and 4th wave, it suddenly becomes a waving of a magic wand of 25 billion. It seems completely bizarre to me, and this level of quality of the evidence to justify the introduction of an EET for another 300,000 entrepreneurs, I find it completely unacceptable and utterly trivial. I'm pretty disappointed about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u67	Thank you. Before I invite another speaker, some of the note cards arrived again. Mr Jaroslav Holík apologizes to us from 13.30 for working reasons and we are apologized by President Jan Bartošek from 13 a.m. to the end of the day. Now please, with the factual remark of Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u68	Thank you for the floor. I feel sorry for Mr Ferjenčík for being so frankly indignant. After all, everyone who knows a little bit about this, we know that from the moment the Ministry of Finance decided to propagandise the numbers that are based on some measures for better active VAT collection, we know how this comes about. The Minister will agree with Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Prchal on how much it should be, and if they agree on the number, they'll come up with a methodology to make it work. That's how it's done, Congressman!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u69	Thank you for keeping time. This has exhausted both factual remarks and debate, but Mr Stanjura is reporting from the post, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u70	Mr Vice-President, we certainly do not have to finish the debate. I did not want to take advantage of the priority right, so I was patient and I waited until there was a vacancy in the general debate on this bill. I would like to divide my performance into several parts. In the first part, I would like to debate the figures and the interpretation of the figures and the alleged benefits of the EET to the state budget. In the second part, I would like to mention the two laws that we are discussing at the same time, and that is this point and the following point. So it's just a little bit of my part that I'm gonna talk about. We have a tax package and VAT change we do not have in the tax package, but in the EET. And then I want to ask about the specific tax changes that are in the EET, to be exact, so I'm going to talk to that point. At the third point in my speech, I would like to focus on comparing the facts with what I have learned with this manual. [[He's pointing.]] I'll do the PR to the Prime Minister - Rumors and Facts. After two years, we have some facts, and we can compare it to reality. Then I would focus on a very important area, which was also mentioned by Mr Bláha, and that is the area of the shadow economy, because that is the problem, on which we agree, but the instrument that was chosen first was chosen in our opinion very poorly and the fundamental problem of the shadow economy is not addressed. Then I'll get to the bill as a whole. I would make this article today, and I'm promoting both the Journal of Law and the North News.cz , skipped the headline, missed the comments and evaluations made by a particular journalist, a specific journalist, and I would focus on the figures published by the Ministry of Finance and not by the opposition or by journalists or economic experts. Of course, we're only able to compare numbers for 2017, because we're in the middle of an economic year, so we'll have the numbers for 2018 at our disposal, the basic ones, sometimes in early January, when statistics come out every month, which says how they...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u71	Madam, gentlemen, once again the noise in the hall is increasing. I would like to ask you to either take your seats in the benches or move your meetings into the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u72	I say, every month, at least we who care, on the first working day of the Ministry of Finance have published the results of the state budget. We have the numbers there, and then maybe we'll argue about interpretation. I don't know if Winston Churchill actually said that winged statement, to whom the phrase "I trust only the statistics that I have forged" is attributed, I really don't know, but it's very much used in political debates. And I have to say, the Treasury is following this and trusting their statistics. That's all I'm adding. I want to draw your attention to the basic figures in terms of VAT collection, and I will show that it sometimes interprets absolute and sometimes relative tax increases. I understand, I understand the reasons, because when I make, we talked about cars today, when the car manufacturer made a million cars last year, and this year a million hundred thousand, so we either say she made 10 percent more cars, or a hundred thousand. And if a start-up carmaker made one car last year and two this year, the other one has a hundred percent increase, and the first one only has a ten. So which is the more progressive business? One is growing by one hundred percent a year and the other by ten percent. It's the magic of statistics. With the numbers. The Ministry of Finance, and we have it in the final account, so it's a verified number, says last year it was able to collect exactly 381.7 billion for VAT. I mean, it's a national return, it's not a state budget income if you guys want to correct me, that's less in the state budget, which according to the Ministry of Finance figures is 32 billion. more than in 2016, which is relatively 9 percent more. There's no reason not to trust these numbers and not take them as a basis. Then the Ministry of Finance itself published figures regarding the fields that were already burdened by EET. And so far, I'm just gonna quote the numbers, so I'm not gonna question the numbers. He says: 128.9 billion has been selected. in these fields - you can see that this is a minority of the total selection - and one year earlier it was 118.2 billion in the same fields. and it follows, and now it's an impressive number, the increase was 10.7 billion, and so far I don't want to argue about what the factors of the increase were. But what is missing here is a relative increase in tax collection. I took a calculator on a smartphone to see that I can also control a smartphone like some other Members who demonstrated it to us today, and I counted it. So, in a simple way, tax collection in fields that are burdened with EET has increased by 9 percent last year. Tax collection of VAT in sectors not subject to VAT also increased by 9 percent according to the Ministry of Finance. Where do we influence EET's tax collection in those fields that EET had and didn't have? It's pretty loud in here, so I'll do it again...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u73	I'll ask again for peace in the hall. The negotiations take place in alleys and everywhere. I'd like to ask that we stay calm for about 20 minutes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u74	I would like to repeat, and these are the figures of the Ministry of Finance, in the fields that were burdened by EET, i.e. in the first and second waves, VAT increased by 9 percent, in the fields that did not have EET, VAT also increased by 9 percent. That's pretty simple math. The two groups are no different, so it is very difficult and difficult to crediblely say that EET contributed to something. Only assuming that the economy grew less in those fields that are burdened with EETs than in the other fields. On this assumption, if a relatively equally high tax increase was achieved - VAT and there would be some benefit to EET, then the economic performance in these fields would have to be lower than in the others. Let's work on this hypothesis. [[13.40 hours]] At the same time, EET advocates say that the main objective is to increase sales, thus increasing economic performance in monitored sectors. Did the EET increase sales in the fields where the EET was introduced? If so, there is no argument that there is any benefit from the EET at all. Mathematically, from the numbers provided by the Treasury. There will be an argument that the second wave was only since March and that January, February is not there. Yes, that's the relevant argument. But we would have to have numbers from the Ministry of Finance, how much VAT has increased in the fields burdened by EET in the first wave, in the second wave. And in the other, theoretically, we could increase it by one-sixth so that we could have the time factor perfectly fine. Unfortunately, I do not have this information available, so I cannot work with it and I only work with the numbers. So I showed these numbers that they don't differ in fields with EET and without EET in terms of VAT collection. That's so weird. Let's look at how the very 10 billion per year, which were collected on VAT in EET-loaded sectors, divided by the Ministry of Finance and which factors said that they were involved in this increase. I don't know how, but those out of 10.7 billion like this, 4.7 billion, brought EET. [[points to fingers]] So the increase in VAT collection, if we take it again, is a true hypothesis, in the fields burdened by EET was lower than the increase in VAT collection in those other fields. That means it's not working. The result would have to be the opposite if what the zealous EET supporters claim was true. If you remember the debate about the numbers, there's still the benefit of the inspection report. Here, when we have 10.7 billion a year, we say 4.7 billion - not we say, says the Ministry of Finance: 4.7 billion a year EET, how much benefit is thanks to the inspection report? I'll hear different numbers, it's not mentioned again in the analysis. Well, probably a zero or maybe a minus. After all, the fields thrive, which are integrated into the EET. I've established order, they're all paying taxes, they're growing sales, they're just not growing taxes. That's weird. That's weird. Remember our debate about whether non-payers have VAT or not to submit EETs. These figures clearly show that we are right. It's logical. If someone has a sale, there is no VAT payer, so an increase in sales, like from 500,000 to 800,000, which is 60 per cent per year, 300,000 in the absolute number, will not be reflected in the VAT collection, because it is still VAT non-payment unless it has voluntarily become a payer under the strict supervision of the state and the financial office. In order to have a serious debate about the benefits of the EET, really seriously and simply not throwing out the numbers as we can, we would still have to have in those fields that we have on the first and second waves, split the VAT collection and divide the economy's performance into payers and non-VAT payers. Unfortunately, we don't have the numbers, so I might as well fabulate and tell you how much the insubordinates are gonna make of the performance. I really don't know. The only person able to find out is the Ministry of Finance, Financial Administration in cooperation with the Czech Statistical Office. There's no point in us adding more numbers to the public debate and fighting with the government who's right. In other words, if we don't have a good analysis of the impact of the EET, I admit that it may prove that we were slightly wrong when we said it would be one big zero. But we can't even make our claims because an army of civil servants isn't behind us, we don't have data, we don't have aggregated data, we can't enter those tasks, we can't seriously assess it. But I don't think she's capable of seriously judging the Ministry of Finance from the analysis anyway. When I follow up my fellow Member Ferjenčík from the budget committee, who quoted from the methodology that is published, I hope that I will not break any diplomatic customs, he actually said: experience from Croatia has taken place and we have multiplied it by two thirds. That's the number we used to call the Bulgarian constant when we were in school benches. You make that up and multiply it and you get the result. So we take the Croatian results, multiply it by the Bulgarian constant and get the benefit of EET to the Czech public budgets. I think we can agree that this is not the happiest methodology. Well, I don't think that's the happiest methodology. So the first specific question I have for the secretary. When we compare the years 2017, says that in the fields where EET is, VAT has increased by 10.7 billion, I will not dispute the number, and says that 4.7 billion is over EET, how much is positive in this segment of the economy in 2017, the introduction of control reports both in those fields where EET is and where it is not. Because I'm afraid when we debate the audit report, I'll hear again: 10 billion a year, 15 billion a year, 18 billion a year, 14 billion a year, 13 billion a year; choose from this rather wide offer. And if I wanted to stay with the geography, then the Croatian numbers multiplied by the Bulgarian constant and then the Swedish table offer. Everyone takes a number that fits his political argument. The government, despite not being a good analysis of the impact of the first and second waves, comes up with an idea, a proposal repeated for the introduction of the third and fourth waves. Me and the secretary get so high sometimes, we fix, so I'm gonna repeat what Marek Benda said again. The Constitutional Court has not postponed the effectiveness of the third and fourth waves. He didn't. He canceled the third and fourth wave. The Constitutional Court has no competence to postpone the effectiveness of part or whole of the law. So just so we don't have the notion that something's been postponed. And although the analysis is not, the Ministry of Finance and Government as a whole, and in this case, although I do not know now whether the first government of Andrej Babiš made it, or the second, the Social Democrats stand in line with the ANO movement. They don't have an analysis, but they encourage us not to criticize just one government party and be fair in that criticism. My second specific question is the number of entrepreneurs involved in the first and second waves and estimates for the third and fourth waves. I have at my disposal, then classified, then published specification of the project electronic record of sales from February 2015, where, as the ministerial officials, the Minister of Finance and the Government as a whole said, the government of Bohuslav Sobotka, to remind, very skilled and very well processed estimates, the number of entrepreneurs involved in the individual waves of electronic record of sales. And when we evaluate the estimates and the reality, we have to admit that in the first wave, the estimates were relatively accurate, and the difference between the estimated number of business entities and the actual number of business entities involved in the first wave was small. But if you look at the estimate of how many business entities are involved in the second EET wave, and then you figure out how much is really involved, you'll find a dramatic difference, a dramatically lower number. And then these constant estimates are based on how many entrepreneurs log in, how many of them supposedly held back sales, how much taxes they raise. [[unintelligible]] So the second specific question to the Minister: What happened that much less business entities were involved in the second wave than the Ministry of Finance and the government assumed Bohuslav Sobotka? I'm just gonna repeat the first question to the Minister in brief. When you mentioned - I was looking for the numbers from today's Law, I passed the title, I passed the comments, and I was only based on the numbers provided by one of your coworkers. There you said that VAT collection increased by 10.7 billion in 2017 in the fields where EET is, from which you derived, we said to each other how, geographically, 4.7 billion. And the first question is: how many of the 10.7 billion caused the introduction of a control report in a positive direction? [[13.50 hours]] Because, in principle, we agree that there are four factors that might have affected this, and let's think about how much this affected economic growth, household consumption, above all, can, but may not copy the level of economic growth, and then those measures that the government introduces, for example, tax reductions, the introduction of control reports, the introduction of an EET. And if we want to assess the choice of a specific tax, such as value added tax in a particular segment or economy as a whole, then we should try to do as detailed an analysis as possible. But to divide and find in those fields the amount of demand, the amount of household consumption, the amount of impact, the estimated amount of EET impacts and the estimated amount of impact of the control report, so such an analysis should be a matter of course before the next EET waves start. And then, of course, we can argue over the interpretation of the numbers. And we don't have the numbers, so even I really can't really argue about the interpretation. As far as I can tell, I am missing data to lead the debate, for example, on the Committee on Budgets, that may not be at all in plenary, in more detail. So much for the first part of my performance on today's article in one unnamed diary and one unnamed server. I only commented on the figures submitted by the Financial Administration. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] Then I would like to draw your attention not only to this press, but also to the press that follows. We call him the tax package, item number 30, on the board lights up the tax area. You'd expect taxes to change in the tax package. And there's an open VAT law, not that it doesn't. But apparently as a support argument for the introduction of a third and fourth wave is to propose a reduction in rates for some items under the EET Act. In this part of the speech, I will stick only to this tax part, which is mentioned in this bill. I will begin by reminding the former Minister of Finance, today's Prime Minister, who repeatedly says and looks so sad -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u75	I would like to ask the Members on my left, I am unable to identify this precisely, but it goes from that side to reduce the level of noise. Thank you... It hasn't happened yet, so I'm gonna ask part of the hall on my left again if they can end the negotiations or keep them down or move them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u76	I will recall the repeated statements made by the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister today, who says with that sad expression: I am not happy that we have three VAT rates, I would like two VAT rates. This position is also held by the Minister. I've heard it in this parliamentary term here from this place say: I'm not happy that we have three VAT rates, I'd rather be for two VAT rates. I agree with that view. Unlike Madam Secretary - or Madam Secretary - it was not a vote, but the Prime Minister was here. We're unhappy about it, too, but we voted against it. That is the difference between those who are unhappy but who voted in favour of the third rate. But even then, we pointed out that when we introduced a second reduced VAT rate, logically, unsurprisingly, ideas would arise from the government, the opposition, the profession, the other profession, why they could not also apply a second reduced VAT rate. Who you are - the directive is also there, but the directive does not tell us to have two reduced VAT rates, Madam Secretary. We can have one. It's a wasted chance. Neither at point 29 nor at point 30 is the proposal to return to two VAT rates and to have only one reduced VAT rate. Who remembers the debate when it was going on, at that time there were only three items at that reduced rate of 10 percent, and sometimes we heard from the ministers that it wouldn't spread. Unfortunately, this commendable intention did not last for the government and we gradually added more and more items. At this point, if I count well - one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven other items are proposed to the second reduced rate with the argument: We reduce taxes. What do you have against it as a right hand? I'd be happy to answer that. It's not enough. It's not bad, it's not bad. If this were the opposition's proposal, I am sure that I will read the Government's position with a negative statement that this is a random, non-systemic solution that does not address the issue of VAT as a whole. But I can assure you, honourable Members, that the government has already begun intensive work to bring its own, better, more comprehensive and more systemic VAT change. Okay. I'll look away from being unsystemic, random. It's not completely random. Where Andrej Babiš came in the campaign, he promised lower VAT. He was in a hairdresser's shop, hairdresser's service, bought a flower, cut flowers. I understand. I am trying to find logic in this, and I have another specific question for the Minister about the proposed changes in the VAT rate reduction from 15 to 10 per cent. Five percent VAT reduction. We agree that this will not lead to price cuts, but it can help those entrepreneurs to make more profit, to increase their employees' salaries, or to pay higher income tax, whether natural or legal persons. We are in favour of tax reductions, in order to make it perfectly clear that it is not argued that the right is rejecting tax reductions. Rolled, in parentheses keg beer served as catering service. I understand that. What about a curled keg beer not served as food service? How many controllers, control purchases, and how many officials will we need, and how much will the poor drink to determine whether the barrel beer was served as a food service or not served as a food service? I think we remember the bad example that long ago fell out of the tax system that, for example, when you bought a dessert with you or ate it, there were various VAT rates. These are exactly things that can't be checked out in real life. And what if the guy who bought it finally changed his mind and unwrapped the package and ate it on the coffee table outside the plant? Who violated the VAT Act? I don't think it's anyone. But there's two rates and there's no way to check it. And it is up to you for a particular controller and for a particular Financial Administration official whether he considers it or not to be a violation of the law. In this case, in my opinion, Madam Secretary, there is something similar and I would like to know the methodology for distinguishing beer made. Another point where taxes are reduced - and I say I support it: home cleaning services. If I get my facade cleaned, Madam Secretary, will there be any other VAT? Internal cleaning services carried out in households. I've got a house, I've got a family house, I'm gonna invite some company that knows how to do it, and I'm gonna say, "I've got a dusty facade here, the house is close to communication, see how it's dusty." So he'll issue me an invoice with two different VAT rates. [[14.00 hours]] Then there is an interesting problem with the entrance door. I'm showing these absurdities on naschvál. Home spaces. If anyone would like to strictly follow, as I would say in the Chewkish way, the VAT Act, so if the door to the house washes from the outside, there will be VAT of 15 percent and they have to distinguish it, like 18 minutes, or I don't know, I don't have the complete experience of how long it takes, and if they wash the other half of it from the inside, there will be VAT of 10 percent. I understand if he writes cleaning services there. I could understand that, but like this? [[Prime Minister, it's 2:00.]] Next time, that's okay. I'm just getting started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-003-029.u77	The appointment was until 2:00 p.m., so I would interrupt the meeting in accordance with the terms of the agreement, and we will meet on Tuesday 2. 10. 2018 when the 19th meeting will continue. There are seven fixed points. Thank you and have a pleasant trip to your regions.
