ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u1	29. Members of Martin Kolovratník, Dan Ťok, Patrik Nacher, Milan Feranc, Klára Dostálová, Roman Onderka, Jaroslav Foldyna, Květa Matušovská, Leo Luzar, Zdeněk Ondráček, Radim Fiala, Helena Langšádlová, Ondřej Polanský, Věra Kovářová, Lukáš Černohorský, Zbyněk Stanjura and Jiří Mihola on the issue of Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on Acceleration of the Construction of Transport, Water and Energy Infrastructure and Electronic Communications Infrastructure, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 76/ - First reading I would remind you that this proposal was dealt with on Friday, 2 March of this year. The item was interrupted in the general debate. I remind you that the Government's position has been delivered as House press 76/1. At the rapporteur's table, Mr Martin Kolovratník and Mr Ivan Adamec have already taken their seats for first reading. We will continue the general debate, which, as I have already said, has been interrupted. Mr Polanský is enrolled in the general debate, and Mr Luzar is also enrolled. Mr Polanský has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u2	Mr President, dear government, Members, thank you for the floor. [[Members don't pay much attention.]] My aim is to present the opinion of the Pirates on the proposed amendment to Act 416. As pirát, we were invited to discuss this amendment on 12 December last year, when the first meeting took place over this law. At this meeting, we were assured that this was a sort of actual correction, a correction of some of the current problem that exists in the construction of transport infrastructure, and that is exactly how we stood up to it as a club. Unfortunately, lately, the Ministry has been hearing information that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u3	Ambassador, I'm sorry to interrupt you for a moment, because I'm getting signals from Members that, given the noise in the room, they can't hear well and can't follow what you're saying. So, please, all Members of Parliament, to calm down, to keep our voice down, and we can focus on discussing the House press 76. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u4	Thank you, I'll make it short. From the point of view of the pirát, we treat this law as a correction of one particular aspect of the construction of transport infrastructure. And that's exactly how we take it. It means that we do not support any further grafting of other ideas, respectively. other instruments to this law, whether it be energy infrastructure and others. Yet, the pirát do not see the 416 as a system and quality solution to the problem. The only real honest solution is the pressure to adopt the real Linen Construction Act. A law that would create a kind of unified procedural platform for the authorisation of selected line transport structures. A law that would present, virtually. its motto should be one procedure, one administrative decision subject to one judicial review. Thank you, that'll be all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u5	Yes. Another enrollment is Mr Luzar. In the meantime, Mr... A point of fact is still in order, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Adamec, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u6	Thank you. Mr President, the honourable remnants of the government, my colleagues, I would respond to my colleague Polanský. Of course, that's what I'd imagine. But if we want to deal with something in a reasonable time frame, there is no other alternative at the moment. What you said, that's at least a year and a half work, maybe even longer. And definitely - of course, and I'm not counting the construction law I was talking about last time. So please accept this as a partial amendment to speed up the final part of the preparation, just the last part so that we can speed up the construction of line construction. At the same time, while I'm at the counter, let me say one thing. When you tend to add more buildings to that attachment, remember that the buildings that are listed there run in normal mode all the time, it doesn't stop. And if we want to break through in the Constitutional Court, please let's keep it simple. I know we all have a problem in the region, but let's try to rise above it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u7	Thank you. I note that Mr Stanjura, President of the ODS, apologizes until the end of the day for working reasons for our negotiations. We are now returning to the duly signed up for the general debate. Mr Luzar is next, followed by Mr Mihola. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what I would like to highlight has already been said here. It's an attempt to find consensus across the political spectrum. It is a law that restricts citizens in their property rights. It restricts them to the benefit of the majority. The reason is obvious, because we have been struggling with braking the construction of line construction for many years. We all know that from our regions, and I could repeat those sadties ten times here, individual buildings. And I could remember history. [[18.40 hours]] Perhaps the first such case was the boundaries and purchases that prevented investment construction. This is what we feel as a problem, and we consider that what set itself as a barrier to private property protection, soil protection, has come across the constraints of the state's ability to develop buildings. It's a compromise. That is why there is much talk here in the debate about the Constitutional Court, which will have to resolve the compromise. If the interest of the state is on line constructions - they emphasize the word of line constructions - prevailing over the interest of private ownership of the property, or bear the construction if I am specific, because it is not only about ownership, it is about purchases, forbearment of the building, material burdens and other elements related to the construction. We've become hostages to a law that prevents private property. Those who demand construction have found that often reasonable action, reasonable subjects that are being heard are not perceived from the other side, and rather those laws that are valid today come across an effort to artificially hinder those buildings. I don't want to be specific, but we know from our own practice the constant disputes with those who may even deliberately purchase land to become participants and to hinder construction. This is a certain legacy of the 1990s, when we made it possible, in good faith I assume that ownership is above the interests of the majority and that majority is to retreat and seek ways to that minority. We went so far as to raise the value of the purchases, to allow the property to be really taken into account and to say well. Yet, we are constantly encountering that brake. This is one plane that the consensus of political parties is heading towards a solution. This solution is offered in this law. It is not comprehensive, I recommend to everyone to read it, but I recommend that you devote yourself to the attachment. As has already been said here, the consensus is that there will only be roads, or specifically motorways listed, D1 to D35, or even D50, now I don't know how many of these motorways in different sections we have built up, possibly. which are planned, and there are high-speed, in high-speed rail quotes. And then there were the tracks. Those lines will still be for discussion, I would say, because their scope also seems beyond what we talked about at the meeting that prepared this attachment. Here I will be happy when the promoters of this proposal clarify individual railway nodes and individual constructions. Because, in my opinion, the problem with the law is not the Constitutional Court. Here the experience from Europe is and I believe that the Constitutional Court is also inclined to apply European law and European practice and will not get out of this legal framework that exists in Europe. But the problem, in my opinion, is a certain abuse. And now, in quotes, I'd like the big word abuse on the part of the state, the easier way to deal with these matters. Because if you're watching the building process, I think the biggest brake on construction is our mandatory 30-60-90, just the time to process and the wheel that's running around the applications. Here we are referring to the inability to coordinate the state. That is why the proposal also includes the creation of a special office, an office in quotation marks, or the identification of who should carry out this permit or who should implement it. It's not a particular village that has the construction office anymore, but it's meant to be. The problem appears to be serious, and already during the discussion of the previous parliamentary term, we warned the KSČM ministry, whether it be the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Transport, which was in the hands of one political movement, to find coordination among themselves, to try to find ways of cooperation between those ministries and to find ways out. I fear that the screams - immediately a new construction law, start working on it etc. - are problematic because the building bill is hugely large. And opening it now because of this problem is probably not obvious. But I believe the work on his refinement is. In my opinion, removing line construction from the construction law as a special construction is also a little bit of a problem, because it makes the work easier again where I think it should not be facilitated, in other words, the coordination of the state. This is where I want to point out that this must happen, because otherwise we are not able to move these buildings through this law alone. It has already been said that this is only a small section of the construction process, which is insurmountable, the construction stands because we are unable to redeem everything, and she should continue, even if the purchase has not yet been realized. This is the purpose of the law that the construction will continue, will not be stopped, preserved, will not increase the cost of the state, will not damage conservation, will continue, but will be in parallel to the proceedings with the owner of the land, which for some reason prevents it. So I'm turning to you with the appeal. And, of course, I am also visited by various interest groups that are interested in other line constructions, whether they are datamakers, whether they are networkers, whether they are others, water structures and others that we can remember and which meet the character of line constructions, and they ask that we include them in that law so that they can also speed up their construction. But I'm appealing here to try to make this realization on those highways. But I've logged the subway request, I've logged the trailer communication, I've recorded the traffic nodes that TEN-T networks apply to, and it's possible. But I would really, really be very careful and go to speed up the highway construction first so we can finish the highway network. And after the experience, as was said during the preparatory procedure, when they discussed with the Minister that they also went through the gradual method in Slovakia, in other words they also passed the law to the limited extent applicable to the concrete constructions, and only then, when they found that it was viable, it found support and it is also constitutionally conformal, they agreed to the law more extensive, which included the constructions as general in the principle of the possibility of realization. So I'm coming back to you with a request that we really abandon regional interests this time in favour of speeding up those basic buildings for this republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u9	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Polanský will now speak. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u10	Thank you. I merely made a brief remark to Mr Adamec's speech. It will certainly take more than 1.5 years, it will definitely take more than 5 years. However, I am very happy for what fell from the mouth of the Minister of Regional Development on Friday, and that the recodification of building law has already begun. Thank you for that. My deep desire now is for the Ministry of Transport to add to this, so that you work together, preferably the same team of people, even on the Line Construction Act. I think that would probably be the best thing we could do right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u11	Mr Mihola is enrolled in the general debate, followed by Mr Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u12	Thank you. Good evening, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues. Transport infrastructure is certainly one of the most important and most pressing problems in many regions. The main theme is also in South Moravia, where I live and where I come from. The so-called priorities are increasing, however, their implementation is slow. In the case of some topics such as: Brno-Vienna motorway connection or at least a satisfactory state of D1 or redesigning the road of death R43 to D43, can almost bet on how many times those priority topics will be without moving things forward. [[18.50 hours]] KDU-ČSL wants to support a proposal that will significantly accelerate the implementation of transport infrastructure, but also has great interest in ensuring that it is a quality law, which we will not have to amend immediately and which will not disturb fundamental human rights. Just as every club is represented in the Transport Sub-Committee, so I took up this task because I am a representative of the KDU-ČSL in this subcommittee. I'm not here to talk about the bill you have at your disposal about his bowels. We know that the central point presented by the amendment is the new institute called. preliminary possession, when under certain legal conditions an investor can start construction on land which is the object of expropriation, and this is probably the apple of contention or the neuralgic place. The legitimate concern and excitement raises the question of whether the adoption of a bill will not undermine the constitutional right to personal ownership of some individuals who do not want to sell their land. We live in a legal state and citizens' property rights must not be violated otherwise than in the public interest under clearly defined conditions and to the least possible extent. This amendment enters property rights to a certain extent, without a doubt, and in the legislative process, especially in the Chamber of Deputies, it will be necessary to find the right and balanced position. I myself presume, following consultations that I have already had with transport experts, also with our senators, that I will propose, in this respect, by means of amendments and again with the support of our experts, certain adjustments that will mitigate or resolve satisfactorily the interference with property rights. As I mentioned, I consulted some of our senators on the proposal, and I have about ten quite serious comments. I will not read them all here or discuss them in detail, because time is coming to the end of today's negotiations, just very briefly I will tap some of them. Among the main objections I have here, for example. Unwarranted creation of a new group of special construction offices for listed concrete buildings, which makes it more difficult for the owner, citizen, person to access information and authorities. There is also a new obligation on the owner to allow research work and measurement and the right of entry and entry into real estate by an investor, which is not conditional on any legal basis on any legitimateness of the construction. Furthermore, the legal certainty of the owner is zero against the unknown and wide term of the survey work. There is no legal relationship with Section 14 of Act No. 62/1988 Coll., which is the obligation of a contract with the owner or a decision of the Region for reconnaissance geological work. Directly contrary to the principles of the administration's performance, it is completely unprecedented to exclude the possibility of expressing the owner of the property on the grounds of the provisional decision. Paragraph 4a (b) No. 3 it is. Finally - I am just saying, I am not reading all the fundamental remarks, there are over ten - here I want to stress that the proposal for an amendment in such a crucial decision to restrict ownership, which is a fundamental constitutional right, has not been passed by the Government's Legislative Council. In the course of the legislative process, the law will certainly make certain changes during the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, and if it can find a form that will satisfactorily resolve the conflict between the interest in speeding up the construction of transport infrastructure and the intervention into property rights, I believe that the law will find sufficient support across the club members so that we can finally monitor the increase in the pace of construction of transport structures in our country. In this context, however, I must conclude that there is a great deal of damage and indeed a wasted chance that the necessary changes could not be enforced during the last parliamentary term, when the key departments of the ministries of transport and local development responsible for the construction law had the same side, namely the ANO movement, and even in their provisions they had the opposite views. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have been informed of the agreement of all Members' Club Chairs on voting on the extension of this paragraph after 19.00. I am merely saying that I cannot propose this because, according to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure, we need either one fifth of the Members or a proposal from two members of Parliament to do so. Then I ask one of the presidents of the MPs to make such a proposal. Mr. Chairman of the Faltýnek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u14	Thank you. I would therefore make this proposal in the spirit, as Vice-President Fiala said, so that today we can continue to discuss this point after 19 o'clock, and we can take a substantive and territorial vote. Martin Kolovratník actually ransacked all his colleagues and it was a match. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u15	Okay, thank you. This proposal has been made; we can vote on this proposal. I'm still summoning colleagues from the lobby. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 58. Registered 161 Members, for 118, against 1. The proposal has been adopted, so we will finish the discussion of the item even after 19 o'clock. We are continuing the general debate. Mr Jurečka is enrolled in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u16	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, good evening. I will try to be brief because many of my comments here before me mentioned a colleague named Jiří Mihola. I think we all agree that we need to speed up the transport infrastructure in the Czech Republic and its construction, but I would also like to look again and pay attention to whether the key is also in something else, and these are the deadlines of the individual authorities that express themselves within the framework of the construction procedure. Because when we start adding up these deadlines, we find that this is often a much bigger problem than the comments made by some NGOs. However, directly to the proposal that is here, I will allow myself above the list of what has been mentioned here and what I think should be corrected in the second reading, because it is a big and significant intervention in private ownership, and if we put ourselves in the role of those to whom it will then concern, let us try to put ourselves into it, for example. not to be clearly informed that there will be a survey on the land that I own, not having the opportunity to comment on such a project of construction and exploration, these are serious problems that would really have serious problems for citizens, and we would also be dealing with these problems, I think, also in the Constitutional Court. This would be good during the second reading then, within the framework of the amendments, to make amends. But here I will mention, beyond what has been said, one important thing that concerns the practice that is and concerns farmers in the Czech Republic. Since the 1990s, it has often been introduced that the land is so called. alternative use that farmers exchange land between themselves under the agreement and enjoy it in a completely different part of the register. Then there are so-called. users who, in the context of the common agricultural policy, have e.g. even five-year commitments that if they fail to comply, they are in danger of being sanctioned. That is why it is very important that not only the land owner, but also the user gets information in advance that the land will be carried out, or on the land he uses, there will be a survey or a construction start, because these people, these entities may subsequently get into the problem of being sanctioned by other authorities, in this case, which I mention the Ministry of Agriculture, for not fulfilling their obligations, but they will cower their shoulders and say: we did not know it, no one gave us the information. [[19.00 hours]] So that's also one of the comments I'm making here. And I say again, if we fail to deal with the comments that my colleague Jiří Mihola mentioned, plus what I'm making here, I'm going to have a big problem with this law in third reading, even if we need it and understand it, I'm going to have a problem supporting it, because we would be overstepping the rights of owners and users of these land. But I believe we can find a match on that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u17	Thank you. No one else is entered in the general debate, nor do I see anyone reporting from the place, so I am ending the general debate. I note that from 19 o'clock to the end of the negotiations, Mrs Levová is sorry for health reasons. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. Yes. prosit, Mr Kolovratník as a representative of the plaintiffs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u18	As a representative, I must and I want to respond. Colleagues, thank you so much for the debate, for the comments. Please send them to me as soon as possible. Reaction very brief. Member Luzar. Thank you, and I'll call it a day. There he used a beautiful sentence: let us abandon the regional interests and concentrate on the most necessary strategic constructions of the state. I announce, and I already said it last week on Friday, that I will also be conservative and moderate in access to the width of buildings at this time, so that we have a chance to test the effectiveness and functionality of these provisions. So that in quotes, we don't overreact to the constitutionality. Excuse the wording here. I've already asked, and I'll remind you again, the biggest investors, ŘSD and SŽDC, to give us by Thursday, when we will have our first session, or another session of our working group, to send us clear arguments as to why the proposal, as it is laid down at the moment, gave us those and those which constructions. Why there are highways, why there are e.g. conventional railroads that are already finished and have a lead and do not interfere with new land. So, for you colleagues, I'll have it ready for Thursday. As for the property rights, as the KDU-ČSL colleagues spoke, Jiří Mihola and Marian Jurečka. I also completely agree with you, and I feel very strongly about this with my colleagues. I myself live near the future construction of those sections of D35, and if from mayors, e.g. The mayor of the time village, I hear and see photographs of archaeologists driving around the village today, and no one's even talking to the village, they're just driving around in the field, and some debate about putting it into its original state is almost hypothetical, so I think there are things where we need to clearly define how the information will be given to the owner in advance. And also how exactly and until it looks like putting it into its original state, for example, in those reconnaissance work. And one more comment on Mr Mihol, the Legislative Council of the Government. I have now checked with Mr. Vice Prime Minister Richard Brabec, we have sent the proposal to the government in the standard way, and I suppose, at least unofficially or informally, the information has been confirmed to me that my colleagues from the LRV, albeit in some shortened regime, have gone over the proposal and studied it. So thank you for the debate. Perhaps the last sentence to this so called. the timetable. I remind you, our working group of petitioners outside of the standard committee will meet the day after tomorrow, Thursday at 17 o'clock, after the inauguration. And please, all of you who have amendments, comments, send them to me, and I will start working with them on Thursday so that we can have it discussed and discussed with the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u19	Thank you. The rapporteur, Mr Adamec, is also interested in the final word. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u20	Thank you. Mr President, dear two members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I would perhaps sum up the debate. I think the comments were beneficial. It is true that the preparation group worked, but I understand that in these negotiations, it was not possible to just accept all the ideas that would be there at first. However, I have one thing to say. This bill was already prepared at the Department of Transport five years ago. That's what needs to be said here. And that's when it was there for the former minister, and then it didn't get here. I would rather not talk about the Constitutional Act, because it was obvious that the cooperation was somewhere else, because the Department of Transport here, through the MPs, was making an amendment that I think would send the whole matter to somewhere we don't want to go. It's impossible to put all TEN-T networks in there. Because it really was that view of the Government's Legislative Council. And in my opinion, what we have here today is a remnant of these opinions that these activities should be as many as possible or should not be listed at all. On the contrary, I think it should be the other way around. Finally, I said here that all these buildings will continue to run in mode and that only the listed ones will be set for this new mode. And otherwise, I wouldn't have anticipated anything from the Constitutional Court's point of view. Nor is there any practice in the surrounding countries because the Constitutional Court decides in the College. And I really don't want to tell you how this is all gonna turn out. I know when the Slovák did it, how they knocked, how the Constitutional Court would compare it. And it wasn't easy at all. And I have to say, we're really behind. When the two kilometers of D11 opened last year for great fame, only half of the route, there was a Polish transport minister, and I can tell you that I was ashamed. He said something in his mind, like if we can't do it, so let's come to Poland and advise him to give us some advice. So let's believe that we're finally going to make it into some kind of voteable form. I don't think we can compare the '90s to this time. I can't. Because after your experience before 1989, when you told someone you'd own something for him, they looked at you like you were a murderer. I've already said it on TV, in a duel. It was just a different time. And we have gradually come to the fact that the public interest should outweigh at least a little of the interests of particular owners, especially in the field of line construction. So, please, let's put this on the committee, and let's try to put it in a form that will be voted out here in plenary, and let's try to push it, because I think it's the first piece that will help speed up the construction of line construction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-06-ps2017-007-05-002-029.u21	Thank you. Since there has not been a motion for a return or rejection in the debate, we will now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The organisational proposal proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. So we will now proceed to the vote. Initiating vote. Anyone who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee, press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting number 59, 162 Members registered, for 139, against none. I note that the proposal submitted has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. However, in the general debate on 2 March, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík proposed the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a committee to the next. We must also deal with this proposal by voting. However, I ask if anyone else has a motion on the commandment of the next committee for discussion. It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the next committee to deal with the proposal as a constitutionally-legal committee. Initiating vote, who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 60, 162 Members registered, for 90, against 25. The motion was accepted. I note that another committee dealing with this proposal is therefore a constitutionally legal committee. I conclude the first reading of this item and I note that the Chamber of Deputies will continue its negotiations tomorrow, Wednesday 7. 3rd at 9 o'clock, the CNB's inflation report. I'm done with today's meeting and I wish you a good evening.
