ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u1	1. Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 /German press 287/ - first reading Let me just point out and remind you that the item was interrupted today at 12.45 because of the election. The general debate in which we are therefore at this point has been interrupted. So let's see who we have here. I will ask Mr Jan Zahradník to speak and prepare to speak with Mrs Kateřina Valachová. And I, ladies and gentlemen, will ask you to remain calm so that the Member can speak. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u2	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, as is my custom, to comment at first reading on Chapter 315 of the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019, a chapter relating to the Ministry of Environment. The chapter is not very extensive in the financial volume entrusted to it. There are about 15 billion crowns, which is actually one hundredth, one percent compared to the 1.5 trillion budget. However, when we remember what topics are being held in our media, what topics are being held in debates among citizens, these are actually environmental issues. It is a climate change as a kind of fatal global effect that, according to some opinions, affects our country. It's a drought that troubles our farmers, our foresters, who are actually bothering all of us. And it's also a question of bark, which was very much alive. We even gave it a separate meeting of our House. The subject is a bit quiet with the arrival of autumn, but it will definitely be alive again with the arrival of spring and summer, when there will be other bark gradations. So let me talk about this little chapter here anyway. So, in particular, I would start with the revenue from our chapter's budget. These are, as I have already said, roughly CZK 15 billion, half of which are European Union funds and other funds, and about the second, about the same size, is made up of revenue from the sale of allowances, i.e. the so-called emission allowances. There is an increase in the revenue amount of CZK 1.4 billion. We could be glad, the Ministry of the Environment is certainly glad that it has more money to distribute. This phenomenon, this increase, is due to an increase in the price on the market of auctioned emission allowances, which was around EUR 8 per head at the beginning of this year and is now almost EUR 20 per allowance. This is certainly good money for our budget, but we must also be aware that this increase in the price of allowances has a significant impact, for example, on our heating industry, which is already very difficult to deal with. Of course, it increases his costs, and it is a matter that we will have to deal with here in the House sooner or later. So it's income. I would no longer comment on other revenue items in detail, I would look at expenditures that are therefore budgeted at about the same amount. And here I'd like to focus on some of the selected spending blocks, specifically the expense block for conservation of nature and landscape. There's an increase of CZK 250 million around here. The expenses circuits, some kind of sub-chapter of improving the state of nature and landscape plus 200 million. But the landscape care programme, which aims to improve the landscape, whether it be management measures, grazing, planting, there is an increase of only CZK 5 million. There's 150 million, but the increase is 5 million. When we compare the height of the grant with 2017, there is even a recordable drop of CZK 10 million. So one of those measures here-- water retention in the landscape. So whoever from the ministry is talking about the need for water retention in the countryside, let them realize that they are giving relatively little money for it. In any case, therefore, the amounts are not adequate to the emphasis placed on these measures. [[14.40 hours]] Support for the restoration of natural landscape functions from 2019 to 2028. It's the same here as it was in 2018. So once again, there's not an increase that we would expect to see when we realize how serious the drought, the crust, the climate change. Here I have to quote again: "The programme is set up to fulfil the obligations arising from national and European legislation, international contractual obligations and procedures and the strategy of the Ministry of the Environment." Well, for God's sakes, why isn't it a program set up to restore the natural functions of the landscape? Why do we always have to appeal here to some European international contractual obligations, European legislation, and I don't know what all this is? We're still getting dictated by Europe. Then we have a subroutine of protection and care for nature and landscape. Here's an increase of 150 million. [[Okay,]] There's a significant lack of details. There is a significant lack of more detailed divorcing of this huge amount. She is after the increase of CZK 406 million. These are the European Union funds that will be redistributed here, but there is no specific detail. Especially the detail that would respond to what I mentioned - drought, bark, climate change. There will be plans, more stacks of papers. There's no bark, there's no drought. I think that's a serious mistake in this subroutine. Another expenditure block is technical protection of the environment. That's kind of on its own. There are 3.6 billion crowns. That doesn't change, it's not added there. The improvement in waste management is again at the same level as it was last year. But beware - waste, material flows and environmental burdens and risks, which is a specific sub-programme, already has a deficit of CZK 20 million. I guess environmental burdens aren't such a big deal. While we who live around them, whether it be southern Bohemia, northern Moravia, so well know that environmental burdens are a big problem. I don't know why he's here minus 20 million. Otherwise, the text here is a text copied from the budget 2018, the same words, the same letters, the same lines, everything. There is no indication of how much funding there will be for each sub-measure. The expenditure heading for improving water infrastructure and reducing risks and flooding is also subsidized compared to last year with CZK 90 million, but there is still a deficit of CZK 1 billion compared to 2017. We still have that deficit. Surface water monitoring. That's where it goes for some reason for ten to two million crowns. Again, it is not clear what the reason is. Improving water quality and reducing risks and flooding. There is an increase, but once again the individual measures are still the same, copied from the previous budget. I could ask you how much is planned here to muddy the ponds. We're talking about increasing the retention capacity of the landscape, we want to increase the retention capacity of the water tanks, and there's nothing dedicated here. The Minister might say: it is all in the chapter of agriculture. There's about 600 million crowns. The beneficiaries of this subsidy must contribute 55 percent from their pockets according to my information. There is only 45% subsidy. That's very little, and I think we need to do something about it. Moreover, our legislation, which we have approved here, unfortunately does not contribute to the muddying of ponds, because we have made sludge from ponds waste, which prevents what many of us think is a matter of course, and that is that the extracted mud from ponds is exported to a field where it could serve as fertilizer. It's not possible. It becomes waste, and it needs to be treated as waste. So we're, I'm talking about the environmental department right now, we're still defending it. Climate and air protection. Another theme that moves the world. Total plus 1.2 billion, but still minus 800 compared to 2017. Once again, there is a kind of hidden deficit. I might have moved on to the sustainable use of energy sources here, which is part of this spending block. Sub-programme for Energy Savings. There is a billion and a half, and it is mostly to reduce the energy performance of large public buildings and increase the use of renewable energy sources. Another objective is to achieve a high energy standard for new public buildings. So this concerns public buildings, buildings that will be in public administration. I'm sure he'll get to the privates. That's what the budget's thinking. I'm aware of that. But I just want to say - what renewable resources do we want to use? How do we support them? More solar power, more subsidies or wind power plants? Or do we want to support biomass? That's not here either. It says here what it's for - condensing gas boilers, combined electricity production... But these aren't all the renewables that I have in mind that have been mentioned here. And I even think the President himself spoke about this in his speech on renewables and the dangers of their massive support. The citizens here are thinking about our budget. The New Green Savings programme, which is subsidized by 2.7 billion crowns, is also thinking of them. I have been blaming this for the long term that this programme has ceased to support the renewal of coal boilers, it supports combined boilers, higher quality boilers, it supports heat pumps, which are, however, very expensive. The cost of their acquisition is up to 150,000 crowns. Although with subsidies, the customer must make a great deal of money. And those people who drown in the boiler with the low-quality mix and burn the different sludges and plastics, and I don't know what else they can do, they just can't do it. We have to give them a chance to get a subsidy so they can get a cheaper boiler for the available fuel, which is coal. And today the coal boilers are very clean and their emission characteristics may be comparable to the wood boilers. This is where I blame this chapter. But here again - and I must remind you, I almost forgot about that. From this New Green Savings program, 30% of resources are still planned for public buildings, public sector buildings. So to those, I don't know what was here, to that 1.5 billion, there's another 30 percent of these pot subsidies. [[14.50 hours]] Other environmental activities are another expenditure block. Here, I'm always interested in saying it with a solid, correct language, environmental protection. I'm gonna go over the first few items here, but I'm just gonna stop at the first one. Nature and Landscape Conservation Agency 400 miles. CZK, there is an increase of 75 employees. That's not enough. I'm sure it would be worth asking the Minister why we're going to pay for this increase in staff here. And right away, I'm getting to the next item in this spending circuit, and that's non-investment subsidies to non-profit organizations. He's here now, I think the ministry has somehow calmed down, and after the previous years of the past, when he linearly increased these subsidies, at least here in this item is still just the 20 million, which they had last year, the previous year they tried 30, eventually managed somehow to settle. But there's a programme planned to support individual projects that the nonprofits will give. He calculates with a minimum amount of support of CZK 30,000, a maximum of CZK 200,000, each nonprofit can give a maximum of three projects, and if we calculate that it is some average amount of support and CZK 100,000, the non-profit will reach, say, two, when it is so responsible people that it reaches two projects, and those nonprofits active can be around 50, I've always calculated, so it's 10 million. Crowns. What's the 10 miles for? another, I don't know, and I'll also suggest moving 10 miles in second reading. for another, more useful spending circuit in our budget. There is talk of compensation for the losses of municipalities in the territory of the national park. There's a deficit of CZK 400,000. I always ask how much money Kašperské Hory, a town in Šumava, has a large property in the national park, which is municipal property and which cannot be used because of zonation and inaccessibility. If the compensation of CZK 95 per hectare really equals his loss. I must not forget transfers to international organisations. Every time, for about the fourth time, here I am speaking on this subject and I ask the Minister always, I ask the Ministry to do some analysis of how advantageous these contracts are for us, which of them are still alive or which are already meaningless, so that we really do this high amount, which here is 250 miles. The crowns, somehow they could have reduced it, we could have reduced it and spent the money on, for example, keeping the water in the landscape, which I think is undervalued there. No one's ever done an analysis like this to me before. Some are written here - such as the Montreal Protocol Multilateral Fund, the International Commission for the Protection of the Elbe, the Convention on Cooperation for the Protection and Maintenance of the Danube, EUMETSAT etc. I don't see anywhere there the Paris Agreement that you've ratified here in the last parliamentary term, which obliges our country to carry out certain financial transactions, but yet our budget, at least I didn't find anywhere there that the Paris Agreement has any budget item. For the record, according to her, she has to put together 100 billion each year. dollars to support measures to protect the increase of global warming for developing countries. So I don't think the Paris Agreement is mentioned here. I'm coming to a conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. Payrolls and employees. There is a planned increase in our chapter 234 employees. That's a lot. It weighs 185 miles. koruna budget. And there's an increase in wages, which I'm sure you're satisfied with. People who work honestly in this poorly subsidised resort deserve a raise in salaries. It's about CZK 2,000 on average there, which I think is correct and I'm not questioning it in any way. And these are salaries, I had to mention that, Minister, because it seems to me that there is too much, so much increase. And my last comment concerns the Ministry's contribution organisations. Hydrometeorological Institute, CENIA etc. But now there are parks. KRNAP, National Park Šumava, Podyjí and Czech Switzerland. Here are the global subsidies they receive, they're orders, 156 miles. CZK gets KRNAP, Šumava gets 169 million, Podyjí gets 29 and Czech Switzerland 67, rounded to millions. That's nice, but we have different parks. Those parks are different, whether in terms of size or nature, which is there, its protection and its management. So it's worth counting what the grant per hectare of territory is, and that's something else. Krkonoše National Park 4 325 CZK per hectare. Good. Šumava National Park, however, CZK 2,453 per hectare. Podyjí 4 638 CZK per hectare and Czech Switzerland 8 547 CZK. Why does Sumava have so little? Has the interference-freeness been so advanced that it only deals with national park administration, records, paperwork, supervision, the suffering of visitors, where they must not go, and no longer cares about specific management, planting, or mining, and other things that I think should be done in Sumava? Why is the subsidy so low per hectare? I promised it was over, last one. Yes, it is. I'm done talking, then. I will speak again at second reading and try to put forward proposals that, in my opinion, would at least improve the budget in some way, i.e. reduce where money is thrown out through a window, various nonprofits or international agreements, and put it on a specific landscape renewal and building tanks, muddying ponds and these things. At second reading, I will once again apply for the floor and submit my proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u3	That was Mr. Zahradník. And now I would like to ask Mrs Kateřina Valachová to speak and Mr Martin Kupka will be prepared. You have the floor, madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u4	Mr President, thank you for the small wait. honourable Members, honourable Members, honourable Government, I would like to comment on the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. First of all, I would like to thank the current Minister of Finance for the structure of the School Budget for 2019. Unlike her predecessor, she did not allow any of the parts she no doubt needs to be unfunded to be filled entirely. That's the first thing. I am glad that in this way the Ministry of Finance has shown that it sees education as a strategic raw material, a raw material of the Republic, that education has the same impact and level for our country as the military and that we all wish that the world that is changing and we must ensure that children, our children, are prepared for it through the education system. [[15.00 hours]] I also appreciate that, for the second time in a row, the salaries of teachers and teachers as well as the wages of non-teaching workers are growing in the budget at the same time. This is very important, because, until the budget is approached in this way, school directors and school directors were forced to provide the best possible salaries and salaries for teachers and non-teachers within one school - because the school is not just a house, it is a mechanism and an organism that must function as a whole - so they had to reach into the pockets of those or those. And it is very important that we ensure, as Members, that wages and salaries increase, so that both teachers and non-teachers grow, allowing school directors and school directors to make healthy funding and financing planning not just for one year, but for years to come. As far as so-called joint education is concerned, I would of course like to comment on the four billion, as mentioned here. I would like to stress that the situation in our schools since 2005 was such that children with specific educational needs, and it does not matter whether they were in mainstream or special schools, did not have their needs financed in schools as they should. In short, their needs have not been financed systematically and have not been financed at all in a number of cases. This has, of course, led to the fact that these investments, perhaps someone will say costs, were partly financed from teacher's pockets and partly financed from parents' pockets, in a situation where we have free, free education in the Czech Republic. So thank you for this amount, which is no longer stolen from teachers' pockets or from parents' pockets and is financed fairly to schools and school heads. I note that school directors appreciate this and are happy to have this honestly covered. They're complaining, I'm gonna put it bluntly, on paper and bureaucracy, that's the thing we need to do. But none of the school heads think it's right and it's not fair to give this money to schools. Another challenge that remains unfulfilled, but it is not delayed, from the last House resolution, which was spoken repeatedly by you here, Mr President, by Lukáš Bartoň, is that the House has given the government the task of uniting the financing of investment in school infrastructure. This is very important in the future for maintaining a network of schools, kindergartens, primary schools, secondary vocational schools, grammar schools. And it is important simply because we know that especially the primary school, if it is in the village, is the heart of the village, and we need to ensure this network as dense as possible for the future. As I was informed, by your means, the Minister of Finance informed the subcommittee on regional education in June this year just in the ongoing implementation of this resolution that the merger of these investment programmes, which are different at the moment, is being prepared. The House resolution set a deadline for 2020. It is therefore a matter of the next budget. Another thing I would like to mention, which I would not like the House to forget, is the fact that only the second year in a row, and once again the Minister of Finance has ensured full funding for this legitimate requirement towards municipalities and cities, there has been an extraordinary increase in the contribution to the pupil. And indeed to the extraordinary, order of thousands of crowns. In 2018, therefore, our municipalities did not have to complain for the first time that they did not have sufficient money to ensure the operation of schools, and many of them significantly improved even in case of investment. Once again, in 2019 the Ministry of Finance secured this money, and I believe that it is a large amount that we should not forget in the overall funding of the education system that it exists. It is certainly important to say, honestly, that we, as MEPs and, of course, the government, have a great task to do, and that is to ensure new funding for regional education. You know there's been an annual delay. And I am really in favour of this reform of regional education funding being prepared as best as possible, and I am 100% convinced that it is absolutely necessary to change the funding of our schools in order to ensure a network of schools for the future and an education system for the future. I am pleased that the reform of school funding is fully, fully covered in terms of the budget. For the last time, I would probably mention what I still don't think is perfect - but perfection cannot be achieved in one, two or three years, perfection needs to be sought every year, and no government should take vacations, and I dare say that some governments have taken vacations - and that is the financing of teaching faculties and the financing of higher education at all. We certainly have a great challenge not only to ensure systemic funding of teaching faculties and not to rely on a specially functioning grant for the third year in the direction of teaching faculties, but we also have a challenge on how to proceed to the future funding of higher education. I dare say that this funding should change and that it should be enshrined by law. Likewise, it is quite clear that the investments we need in education and education of our children compared to the other countries that we need are huge and we will not only be able to make good on the state budget in the future. I believe that, especially for vocational education, vocational education, secondary vocational education, it would be appropriate to ensure the creation of an employer's fund in the Slovak Republic, which, in terms of their priorities for the areas and sectors of the economy they provide, would finance vocational education from their employer's sources. As I mentioned, this is how it is in Slovakia, and I think we should also go this way. In the same way, I think that education should get its investment back, and it should be financed backwards from scientific money, not only through employers, but also, of course, through outputs from scientific projects and benefits that science undoubtedly brings. We would also like to handle a difficult issue in the coming years, and I really believe that the Czech education system very often replaces some of the issues relating to the Ministry of Labour, here I come across mainly social work or social services, or the Ministry of Health, here I come across health services. Of course, it is good if children get money more easily and from one place. On the other hand, it is necessary for the Ministry of Education to be financed in this way and the Ministry of Finance to monitor fair funding from the point of view of the budget of the chapters of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health. In short, what the Ministry of Education takes over and it's good for children, because it needs to be easier, it's easier for schools, so that this is also funded by the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Labour. For the last time, I would like to mention something that is very discussed. I assume we're going to be talking about this in the budget, and that's the amount of class fees. I don't consider the amount of class fees fair, of course. But it's also fair to say that some amendment to the Labour Code isn't gonna help us out. The fundamental problem is in the budget. And while the Finance Minister has prepared a record budget, plus a structurally well-built budget, and I thank her again, it is clear that if we all want to raise the class fees together, then we need a budget cover. That's just the way it is. Finally, I call on my fellow Members in the Chamber of Deputies to discuss possible resources on this page, of course, and to look for a solution in the committees, together with the Minister of Finance, to find these funds best for 2019. Thank you for your attention, fellow Members and colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u5	Well, thank you, that was Mrs Valachová. I will now ask Mr Martin Kupka to speak and Mr Leo Luzar will prepare himself. Well, I got a point in fact here, but only after I called on Mr. Kupka, so I'll give you... No, if you want to get out, or put some space on the actual... [[Member Kupka outside the microphone prefers a factual remark.]] You want to be able to... Then I shall ask for a speech, a factual remark, Mr Martin Baxa. So please, you've given each other party space, that's good. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u6	Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President, I signed up a little later. I have two things to say. The first concerns my previous performance. Since I then conducted a non-microphone dialogue with Minister Schillerová here, I would like to say publicly that I really acknowledge that there has been a significant increase in the Ministry of Culture's budget in the parts relating to the contribution organisations of the Ministry of Culture. This is really a big increase. But that does not diminish my criticism towards the Minister for the subsidies that are directed towards external entities. [[15.10 hours]] And another thing I wanted to say about the speech by my colleague Valachová through Mr President. Madame, these words are very nice to hear, and it is really obvious that some of the priorities in this budget have already been taken into account. But I again consider it my duty to stress that, in my opinion and our opinion, there is no clear future refinancing of regional education. I am really convinced that this project is very risky, that the fact that the Ministry of Education and the Government have embarked on it is, in a way, a gamble with the funding of education, that the new system is not ready for launch and that without some deeper reform of education as a whole, it really poses a great risk. Another topic is the increase in the salaries of teachers, on which we can clearly agree, but here I see a problem that can catch up with us over the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u7	Well, thank you. And now she will respond with the factual remark of Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u8	I thank Martin Bax for his point of view, through Mr President. In plenary, I would like to point out that the Pilsen Region was truly consistent in this regard. However, he was in the minority in the criticism of the reform of regional education funding. Just briefly. The reform of regional education funding is a theme for all of us. Or I wish it was a theme for all of us. I am prepared for a very detailed work in subcommittees, in committees, the Ministry of Finance will, without a doubt, be in favour of this too. And I agree with Martin Baxa that we must have a clear idea of the network of kindergarten, primary and secondary schools if we want to say fair and squarely how the reform of funding should work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u9	Well, thank you. We will therefore continue with the general debate, so Mr Martin Kupka will prepare Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u10	Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to the Prime Minister's words when he presented the budget and mentioned, among other things, that there would be enough money to remember. It even sounded often in government travels around the regions of the Czech Republic, it is also regularly tilted by the President of the Czech Republic whenever he goes somewhere, as one of the major debts the Czech Republic has against his historical heritage. And it's one of the things I agree with Mr. President. So I looked into the budget to see what was going on with those words. And unfortunately, it turns out that it's probably just going to stay with words again, because where the money goes on to restore landmarks outside the state, there's a significant reduction in the funds. While in 2017, the amount resulting from the repair of the monuments exceeded significantly CZK 1 billion, in the case of the next year's budget, the amount will be almost 40 percent lower and will be around CZK 750 million somewhere. I am talking about the means to serve precisely to restore monuments that are not owned by the state, but belong either to municipalities, regions, or to private owners. It is clear from the list that this is a significant volume of historical heritage, a significant volume of buildings from small sacral buildings to major city locks, etc., fortresses and churches, and all of this, according to the government's proposal, should have more support, however, the budget envisages the exact opposite. So I would like to address a call to the government to try to live up to its words. We will also try, in the amendments, to correct this fundamental discrepancy between words and actions and to contribute to restoring monuments, repairing monuments, and those not declared cultural monuments, there was more means of finding more cultural heritage that was repaired when traveling the Czech Republic. Of course, all economists agree, and all responsible politicians, that the deficit budget is a serious mistake at a time of economic growth. Rather, one would expect, perhaps on the other hand, to be able to repay at least some of the historical debts and take advantage of the opportunity to do so. But when you look at exactly what it means to help restore historical monuments, it doesn't happen again. So I would like to ask both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Culture, the Minister of Regional Development and the Minister of Agriculture, where all such support for the restoration of monuments was to return to the budget and try to do something about this chapter, with this particular help. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u11	Thank you, too. I would therefore now ask for Mr Leo Luzar's speech and Mr Jan Skopeček will be prepared. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Ministers, Madam Secretary, allow me to contribute to the current debate on the state budget. I'll be short, I won't try to overwhelm you with information, because of course it's the first reading of this most important law of the year. And surely, as we are here, we will all enjoy discussions within the committees, which will deal very closely with this. Therefore, allow me only briefly to stop at the issue that concerns and will be discussed in the Committee on Petitions. The Committee on Petitions is in charge of the area, inter alia, of non-state non-profit organisations linked to the state budget and state grant policy. I would like to say, in advance, that I am a hard opponent of mitigating the importance of State aid to non-state non-profit organisations. These organisations are very important for the proper functioning of society. No to the State, I want to say to society, because society is not able to secure all the diverse tasks that lie ahead of this society's citizens being able to live happily and well, and, of course, the Ministry and the Ministry and the government are not able to secure all the nuances of the needs of this sector. I am talking about physical education and sport, for example, when it is one of the major chapters of the state's grant policy, without which the organisation and sports activities of our citizens from top sports, but to the amateur sport would not be possible at all. I'm sure all of us here can call it a success in the functioning of social services. Social services based on the non-profit sector, when it complements, and in my opinion very successfully complements, the space that arises in the care of the state of its citizens and the things that the state is not able to properly and in time to secure, and these non-profit organisations are therefore very important in my opinion. Another area in which this non-profit sector is very important, and unfortunately in this area it is quite attacked by the flatulence that tens of billions go into the non-profit sector, the cry "we have to save, we have to take the money" I think the child is being poured out with a bathtub. For example, the area of culture is very closely linked to the non-profit sector, because everyone imagines only the basic...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u13	Then I will ask you to remain calm in the hall, especially in the left, so that the Member can comment. Well, thank you. And, Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u14	Thank you. It is clear to me that not everyone is interested in the areas of culture in the budget, but I want to point out here that they are not only state cultural institutions, but there are also a large number of art choirs that work on a non-profit principle or are subsidized within the state in order to preserve the diversity of the culture of the Czech Republic, and now I am talking not only about the noble large culture, with quotes, but also about popular culture, traditions and other matters. Here I also have to acknowledge from the point of view of the budget, if you look at the figures and assumptions, because it is mostly a grant system, or it is only considered here in the figures of the projected maximum expenditure that will be drawn and in comparison with 2019, which is forward-looking, so it turns out that the government also assumes mostly either a maintenance or a slight increase in these subsidies. In other words, in the non-profit sector, in the things I consider to be very important for the development of society, there will be some valorisation and an increase. [[15.20 hours]] An integral part of this budget relating to these organisations and is also a drug policy. Here, I'm a little sorry that the drug policy is branched out among several ministries that have their own programs. The Ministry of Health is involved here, of course, as the main guarantor, but there is also the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and other ministries that deal with the drug problem in their own degree, which belongs to the fact that some organizations that suffer from or care for this problem fall under them. Nevertheless, I would like to recommend here that the government, perhaps the Office of the Government, under which it should logically aim and fall, should start to consider some kind of unification or concentration here of these grant titles according to certain fields, so that, consequently, the control of the spending of these funds is clearly directed and clearly identified and can take place. The biggest problem with the material that I am talking about, or from which I draw it, is that the individual projects are simply deployed after the ministries and the follow-up control is quite problematic. Of course, there are a lot of emotions - this has been said many times even in today's day, I will allow myself to use the expression that has been said here, even though it is not my favorite - inadaptable and spending on the functioning and activities of organizations that ensure the functioning of this group of people, which we generally call unadaptable. I would be very careful here in this flat-rate criticism of this phenomenon, because, of course, the state has to bear in mind the fact that it has to support projects that will help these people who today need to be unadaptable in this category, but still have a chance to get out of this category, have a chance to live in a normal society and get involved in productive life, which is why the money we are giving in this area is not completely wasted. And I would be very careful about the proposals that will be made on this budget, so that we cross out the whole chapter on a flat-rate basis just because they have a title in their title, for example integration, inadaptable, support, benefits and other matters. I'd warn very, very much about it here. With this, of course, I would like to point out that not everything that is proposed here is designed effectively and correctly in my opinion. I wouldn't be flattering the guys who set it up again. And for example, projects of equal opportunities for men and women can often make a big smile when you read into those projects that are their goal and how they achieve, so I dare say that sometimes it would be worth looking at in more detail. [[Noise in the hall from left and right.]] One of the big items or items that appear and which, on the contrary, I call it, is an item dealing with the fight against corruption. Fighting corruption, especially in that sphere...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u15	I would ask the Chamber of Deputies for some peace. Let us actually make a statement to the Member. All right, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u16	... in this area of corruption is to be carried out to prevent corruption from becoming a matter of course in society. Unfortunately, we often encounter this, and I consider it to be a very big mischief talking about the fact that corruption is actually something normal, and only when it crosses some limit, or if it is associated with other negative speeches, perhaps even in the criminal field, characteristically in the criminal field, not only related to corruption, so then citizens say, "Beware, there is something wrong here." I think that these are also projects that the government should support and take into account. However, what follows from this material and what I will also focus on in the petition committee, and I am already saying this in advance and pointing out, is the medialised promise made by the Minister of Finance about these very funds and the large money spent on these activities of non-governmental non-profit organisations with the maximum savings declared, I stress the word maximum, because the term was probably taken out of context and then it was corrected that it was up to the maximum level of three billion. I want to focus on this and see if some savings have really been made, because I am looking at the planned expenditures of 2018 and 2019 from the current budget distribution and the tables by the various ministries that I now have in front of me, almost all of the data is increasing, so I will be curious if I compare it to 2015, 2016, 2017 and then 2018 which we are currently dealing with, and 2019, what will be the increases and where will be the declared savings. When I also pointed out in previous speeches that mainly the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has quite a large amount of resources, which I consider to be debatable and problematic, which goes abroad, not only through humanitarian aid, but through so-called transformational, transformational cooperation, where under this beautiful noble name are hidden projects, which many states that are not inclined to us call ingersence in the internal affairs of the state and so on. Anyway, I will be interested in how the evaluation of these projects works and how it works with the fact that these activities are 70 and 80 million crowns in the budget in the next year, although they are not large amounts, but if you look at the overall budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or the programmes devoted financially to programmes for these purposes, this is quite a large amount. And the evaluation, in my opinion, is quite a big problem. When I was trying to track down the individual tables and numbers, I came across a certain barrier that it was spread through the ministry. And I'll repeat myself again. If, in the future and in the preparation of the next budget, the distribution of these funds through various ministries should be preserved again, while also having the control spread over more ministries, without taking into account the overall impacts and total amounts that are coming from the state and from the state budget for these purposes, I would very much hate to see, and I firmly believe that we will be able, at least in those non-governmental, non-governmental non-profit organisations for next year, to put in place some direction of evaluation, some conclusive evaluation of the success of individual projects and, if necessary, to communicate between the various ministries in order to really centralise these funds and not to be branched out like this among the various authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u17	That was Mr Leo Luzar. I will now ask for Mr Jan Skopeček's speech and Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u18	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. I will try not to be long, but rather to document on the basis of some numbers, to illustrate what is probably expected of me, namely that I cannot agree with this draft state budget. Of course, the sentence repeated many times is that the deficit in the tens of billions of crowns at the time of several years of economic growth and very low unemployment is simply unacceptable and has no support or economic theory. Even if we had a government full of Keynesians, it is true that even Keynesians, at a time of economic growth, of course, respected the fact that it was to be prepared for some worse period, and they were saving and not preparing deficit budgets. However, before I get to the numbers alone, I think it's worth pointing out one thing. We're seriously talking about the state budget here today, but the state budget hasn't really been submitted to us. I called him flaky at the press conference this morning. Because, if you remember, yesterday when the tax package was discussed, the secretary said that both this year's and the next one would turn out evenly. And I really think that we have never seen a situation in history where the Minister says the budget is going to be balanced the day before the state budget is discussed, and the next day he brings it to the Chamber of Deputies in plenary and presents it as deficit. I think if he's serious about the balanced budget, he should still be ready. Otherwise, it is confirmed that the YES movement takes the budget as another marketing tool for its policy, and only wants it to be better at the end of the year than a plan that it already knows at the beginning that it is not realistic. [[15.30 hours]] The deficit itself. Some would think that the 40 billion is not enough, but it needs to be realised that the state budget revenues are rising by CZK 151 billion year on year, so the government, even though it gets an extra 151 billion year on year, managed to save tens of billion crowns from it. One ten billion crowns. This is very little at a time of economic growth and low unemployment. The rest of the 151 billion. Spend it. This is, of course, because the government focused not on the expenditure side of the budget, but on revenue, which is also seen in the growth of the compound tax quota, which is expected to rise to 35,7 % in 2019. Let me just remind you that in 2015 it was 32,6 percent. This figure shows how the State places the tax burden on taxpayers or how much the State places the tax burden on taxpayers. And here we see that even if the economy is going well, even though unemployment is low and one would say that there is a lower need for transfers to the population, so the government is increasing the continuous tax burden. Unfortunately, the government has focused only on the income side, it wants to reach even more into taxpayers' pockets. And for 2019, this is true because the tax quota, the tax burden on people, is growing. So all the rumors about how the YES movement reduces taxes do not apply. All you have to do is look at the folded tax quota. The tax quota is growing, the ANO movement is pulling more money out of taxpayers' pockets. On the contrary, I do not see any ambition on the side of expenditure and, in particular, in the type of expenditure that we call mandatory, which the government has to pay by law, no matter what happens to the economy. For 2019 they are planned in the amount of 828 billion. CZK, which will amount to 55 percent of the total expenditure. That share, it needs to be mentioned, to be fair, the share of mandatorial expenses should fall slightly compared to last year. However, 55 percent of the budget, more than half of the budget is predetermined, and the government cannot do anything about it, even if anything happens to the economy. And that's just the mandatorial expenses. If we add quasi-mandatory spending to that, we're getting to two thirds of the state budget spending. And the government simply cannot deal with these expenses in any way, it cannot do an active fiscal policy, even though the economy would perhaps be in a declining phase and the government would need to support the economy, so the fiscal space is decreasing every year, or it is very small because the 55 percent is a really dangerous number. Moreover, the small decline compared to last year is not because the government is doing some structural reforms and reducing the amount of mandatorial spending because it is still growing. The share only fell because gross domestic product grew faster than the absolute amount of the mandatorial expenditure. In contrast to the plan or the approved budget of 2018, these mandatorial expenditures increase by 46 billion. CZK, since 2014, we have even increased 83 billion. koruna, so it is a really time bomb that will narrow the government's space every year for any active fiscal policy. If I were to stop at capital spending, I don't think there's any point in commenting, because the government is bragging about how it increases budget funds for national subsidies, but I think that would really be a waste of time, because when we look at the previous years, we find that the government has rarely managed to invest what it planned at the beginning of the year. So even if these capital expenditures look better than they have in recent years, I estimate that it will turn out to be the same as in previous years, i.e. that the really drawn investment, the really invested funds will be much lower. Which, among other things, is one of the few chapters in which the government can actually "save" for the deficit not to be 40 billion, but to be somewhere zero. But it won't be thanks to the savings of operating, ordinary, mandarin, social expenses, but it will only be because the government won't be able to invest what it planned. On the contrary, current spending, in my opinion, makes sense to comment. Current expenditure is expected to increase by 108,8 billion. CZK compared to 2018, which is an increase of 8.5 %. When we realize that the Czech economy is about 3% growth next year, which is also the number on which the government is building the budget, and I agree with it, it is not a figure that is somehow bloated, I think it is the Ministry's responsible approach that, on the basis of roughly 3% growth, it constructs this budget. And if we compare GDP growth to 3% and current spending growth to 8.5, we will find out how the current government approaches public finances, how economically responsible it is. Because it would be normal for current expenditure to grow either equally or less than gross domestic product, so that the structure of the budget improves. No, even though we have, as I repeat, a decent economic growth for several years, although we have low unemployment, the government has been able to spend 8.5% more on current spending, although the economy is growing only 3 percent more. I see the same problem in social expenses. These are planned in the amount of 693 billion. koruna, which is almost 44.7 billion. CZK more than in 2018. There's a seven percent growth. Let us compare the growth of gross domestic product of 3% again and the growth of social expenditure by 7 percent. Again, to be fair, it must be said that a large part of the dominant part of the increase in social expenditure is a pension of 37.6%, on which there was agreement across the political spectrum. But we simply have to admit that such a situation without any reform of social expenditure, without pension reform, is simply unsustainable. It is not possible to increase social expenditure every year more than gross domestic product is growing. And here, the growth is more than double. As I say, the economy is likely to grow by 3%, the state will spend almost 7 percent more on social spending next year. The situation is completely unsustainable and threatening the next generation. The government will no doubt ask where the opposition would like to save. I guarantee you for the ODS club that we will undoubtedly come up with proposals to reduce the deficit to zero at second reading. We'll show that you can find 40 billion on the expense side. CZK and have the budget balanced from the very beginning. If I wanted to tell the government where to take it, just look at, for example, how under the existing and previous governments, where the YES movement had a dominant position, the number of civil servants developed. The number of civil servants in 2019 is calculated at 469 thousand. places. If we compare it to 2015, which isn't that long a timeline, it's an increase of more than 45 thousand. People. At a time when the labour market is exhausted and when the private sector has no place to take people, the state is making it even worse for the private sector by sucking the workforce out of the market and making entrepreneurs more competitive. Based on these clear simple numbers, I wanted to show that the government has presented us with a food budget. The government has presented us with a budget that is not adequate for the economic cycle we are experiencing. And what I blame most is that we do not see any conceptual structural changes on the table that would suggest that we will not have to approve similar deficit budgets in the future. There is no sign of pension reform on the table, and we can see that the main problem of public finances will be in an unsustainable pension system. The problem is becoming increasingly expensive in health care. Again, we have no indication of reform of health funding. All of this will put us in ever greater trouble in the coming years, and any government will have very little room to use the budget and fiscal policy for some really active sensible policy. That's what I blame the government for. It manages good economic weather and it is a foul and kick into future generations, which, thanks to this government, which is unable to take bolder steps, will lose. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u19	That was Mr. Jan Skopeček. Now, with Mr Jan Hrnčíř's factual remark, and subsequently in the general debate, unless another factual one comes forward, Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be prepared. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond briefly to the previous speakers on the state budget. As we know, the total expenditure of the State budget for 2019 is proposed by the Ministry of Finance for 1,505 billion. CZK and revenue at 1 465 billion. Crowns. With a $40 billion deficit. The Office shall also calculate CZK in the following years 2020 and 2021. At present, we are experiencing unprecedented economic growth, and thus a high tax collection, so we should pay back national debt. But in 2017, state debt increased, this time by more than 11 billion. CZK 1,625 billion. The budget deficit of the state budget of 50 billion is then budgeted for 2018. Crowns. Under the current circumstances, such action goes against any economic logic. By contrast, only 48% of the final budget of capital expenditure, i.e. investments, was exhausted in 2017. Come in. Proposals to increase the benefits of material emergency, i.e. living and existential minima, are further continuation of a completely poor social policy of the state, as it is given not only to the needy but also to people who are working hard. This is very demoralizing and it deepens social problems. More than 150 billion are spent each year on these unaddressed social benefits. CZK from the state budget. Basically, almost everyone who asks for it gets this dose. Moreover, the Czech Republic is gradually becoming one of Europe's most expensive countries for its inhabitants. With Czech salaries, we buy much less things than people in the surrounding states to the west of us. We have much more expensive apartments, electricity, water or food. Moreover, the situation is expected to deteriorate further. [[Attention on time.]] Unfortunately, the draft state budget does not respond to any of these problems, which is why we cannot support it. [[additional time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u21	Now, therefore, for the general debate, Mr Vojtěch Munzar and Mr Jiří Kohoutek will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, too, to make a few comments here rather from a global point of view on the draft state budget, as well as an explanation of why I cannot agree with this proposal. It has been mentioned here many times that the total volume of the state budget is constantly increasing and, at the same time, the management of state finances has been steadily deteriorating over the last few years. Despite economic growth, the future is eating through deficit budgets, little investment is being made, and in particular our state's operating expenditure is growing. In the long run, this creates a structural problem because operating expenditure of the State is growing much faster than capital expenditure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u23	I would ask you to remain calm in the hall, especially in the left section again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u24	It is not only the amount of operating expenditure that grows, but also their ratio to investment. This is the opposite trend than a healthy state budget should have at a time of economic growth. In 2014, the share of operating expenditure in the total expenditure of the State budget was 90.1 %. In 2017, 93,6 % already. Let's see what happens in 2018. For 2019, this ratio is, to be fair, 92 percent so far. On paper, a slight reduction, but we will see how the budget is actually drawn up and, in particular, the actual drawing of investment, and I will come back to that. But it is not only about maintaining the ratios between operating and capital spending, it is also about the fact that the money that the state has been collecting lately is not being used effectively, but for the enormous increase in operating expenditure. These expenditures are not one-off, but will be repeated in future years. The economy is already showing a slow slowdown in economic growth. There will certainly be stagnation or recession in the future, sooner or later, that is the logic of economic cycles, and after this government and after these budgets that this government is presenting to us, it will remain an expensive and chubby state. It is only during the recession that the structural problem of budgets will manifest itself in full nudity, but it will be too late. Instead of using economic growth today for so much needed investment and as an opportunity, for example, to reduce taxes, to make the necessary reforms, to stabilise our economy and our state finances, instead, spending and increasing pressure on the income side and on taxpayers. At a time when, because of economic growth, it would be possible to leave more money in people's purses and allow them to make more decisions about the money they earn, there is a growing tax quota at such a time, i.e. the tax burden on our residents and businesses. That's why it's another year of lost opportunities. Anyway, operating expenses are rising, just like a swell state apparatus. At a time of record low unemployment, when there is a shortage of workers on the labour market, the state de facto cannibalize the private sector, which also feeds it, with two steps. Firstly, the increase in the number of civil servants and, secondly, the increase in salaries in the public sector, and thus unnatural competition for the private sector. And who's gonna pay for that? Only the taxpayer to whom the state vacuums the workforce as a luxury. In the future, the state is creating this structural problem with all its unfortunate effects on our economy. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] Couple of numbers. Since 2014, the increase in the number of state employees has been worth 45 431 people. This is the size of, for example, the statutory town of Mladá Boleslav, for your idea. They've grown so much. Expenditure on salaries has increased by more than 77 billion since 2014. - 58 percent. Do you, colleagues, feel that the services of the state have improved and improved by more than half over the last five years? Does the taxpayer feel that way? There has been a lot of talk about investment here. There is a difference between what is always presented to us in the draft state budget at the beginning of the year, or at the end of the year, and actual expenditure for next year. Let's look at 2017. On paper investment over 100 billion, actually pumped 33.6 billion. The least real investment in the last 12 years. Year 2018. On paper less than 100 billion, by the end of August, less than half of it is exhausted, but it may be possible to make it. In 2010, the real investments were 133 billion, in 2012 113 billion, at much smaller total volumes of the state budget. Now there are 122 billion planned. Let's see what's real. I'll take the liberty of summing it up with one such analogy. The state under the rule of YES, CSSD and with the support of communists behaves like an irresponsible bohemian. In a time of well-being, he spends his money on opulent parties, champagne flows through the flow, invites everyone to parties, and he's still in debt for the parties, throws a tip around. The roof begins to flow through this polish into his house. When the time of prosperity is over, the life of such a bohemian will soon be over. He's gonna live on canned food, and in an old hubertus, he's gonna hide from drops dripping off a broken roof. He'll be swearing that he'd rather not invest in his house than in parties. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. These are the reasons why I will not support the budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u25	That was Mr Munzar. Now, before I give the floor to Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, I will read two apologies. The Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch apologizes today at 18:00. Mr Jan Birke apologizes further from 3:30 p.m. and tomorrow for the whole day. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. I have agreed with my colleague Munzar on a number of points, especially with the emphasis on investment. However, a comment on salaries in the state sphere. I think it is necessary for the Czech economy to hopefully try to catch up with the Western European economy and wage growth is one of the ways to catch up with those economies. This will also boost internal consumption, household consumption in our country. In my opinion, especially in those low-income civil service professions, it is quite appropriate to raise those salaries and push the private sphere to add 300 billion. profits that leave the Czech Republic abroad may fall if wages rise with us, so that the return of the Czech economy is closer to Poland, for example, which simply goes far less on dividends and other ways of draining capital. So here, on the contrary, I have to stand up for the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u27	Well, thank you. I therefore call on Mr Jiří Kohoutek to prepare Mr Roman Onderka. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is probably pointless to repeat the fundamental reservations about the budget that makes debt without actually having to. No economist would have put him like that. He wouldn't have been built by any rustic-thinking person. And I'm sure all the opposition parties will agree on that. Believe that, for a thousand percent, our reservations would be repeated by the Prime Minister if he were in opposition and the budget was drawn up by Mr Kalousek or Mr Sobotka. What, then, is the magic of debt that draws politicians to spend other people's money? Despite the economy, despite logic, despite common sense? Unfortunately, it's politics. I believe, even without miracles, that the real deficit will be lower, because the budget is slightly bloated. Why? Because headlines in the paper that the government has saved x billion and reduced the deficit are likely to pay off for verbal criticism in the House, according to the piarists, advisors. According to marketing surveys, it pays to turn businessmen into thieves, at the expense of those who employ themselves, it pays to employ thousands of officials. It is easier for politicians to cut the pen by increasing the budget, increasing the number of civil servants and adding lightly to those before the elections, thus obtaining voters. On the other hand, it is much harder for politics to correct the economic environment so that people's incomes increase due to higher efficiency of work, higher profits of companies and businessmen. It's slower, and it takes a lot of changes. Fellow Members and fellow Members, this budget is a typical picture of the world to which we are led by the current politician, and the truth, in essence, regardless of individual government parties. More bureaucracy, less freedom, more redistribution of money, which, through this very budget, is in the hands of those who govern. Isn't it wonderful to take away a few billion people and then be generous in the budget negotiations and say, look, we've added a thousand to seniors, a thousand to teachers, police officers, aren't we a great government? Citizens and we here should realize that if the state robs citizens of their money and then returns their change, it's not cool, but it's still kind of a robbery. Just like the most environmental energy is the one I don't consume, so for a citizen, it's the most natural crown we don't take away from them. It takes the crown, because it costs money. So oddly enough, if we take people less, the state won't lose that much. There is no doubt that we can agree with what Tomio Okamura has already said that the state has hundreds of billions of reserves in both income and savings. I would like to mention the examples that have already fallen, for example. fees for the extraction of natural resources. This government swore that it would increase them so that everyone, not only the miners, would benefit from the wealth that belongs to all. According to the latest statements by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, fees will not be changed in the interest of the stability of mining companies. Dear Prime Minister, dear fellow ministers, your task and ours is, first and foremost, the stability of the state. From your point of view, we blame you for the marginal deficit of 40 billion, but the substance is not in that particular number. It's that tens of billions are marginal to you. The Minister of Finance has detoxed it to about 0.7 percent of GDP. And the problem is, even in a time of great economic growth, you can't resist the expectations of worse times without wasting them. If it's 40 billion. marginal for you, then I miss the reason why you haven't found a solution so that the marginal amount is either not spent, or that it doesn't come into the budget, for example, from money that runs abroad for the work of Czech hands or for Czech water or for the appointed health insurance of employers and foreigners. Plus 40 billion. is negligible maybe for you. None of the simple citizens can imagine such a high amount. And in our opinion, not every billion is good, but every one saved a million, which is so dramatically lacking with those elderly and disabled pensioners, police officers or teachers. Let us not boast, dear government, how much you add, but rather try to defend why you cannot give people the pensions and salaries they deserve without deficit. Defend why you're indebting us without clogging the holes that billions have been leaking out of the budget for decades. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u29	Well, that was Mr. Mr. Kohoutek. I therefore now call for Mr Roman Onderka's speech and will be prepared as the last to be discussed without prior rights by Mr Jurečka. We also have the President of the Faltýnek MP. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u30	Mr Vice-President, members of the Government, honourable colleagues, here in the debate on the budget, about one of the most important laws in the Chamber of Deputies every year, the direction and views of individual Members and individual political groups are shown, and that is what I mean by the right-left perception. If I hear from the right here that cannibalizing the increase in average wages is a way of pushing the private sphere to make it happen, the perception of the left side of this House certainly agrees and agrees. Because we're tired of reading the average wage of 31,000 on the Internet. CZK per month, if at least two-thirds to three-quarters of employees in the Czech Republic do not reach this wage and they do not understand who and how they could calculate it. That's not cannibalization. This is a partial correction of past injustices - and now I do not mean four, eight years, but the period since 1989 and unfortunately the period before 1989. Budget is a political matter. They are visions, they are wishes, they are promises made by individual political leaders before or in their electoral programs. And those parties that are then in the government, then these visions, these wishful thinking materialize into the draft budget for each year. That's what needs to be realized. I am very grateful to the Minister that the structure of the budget is what it is. I'm very happy with her. Furthermore, I am grateful that she was able to solve problems that had already occurred at the first reading, i.e. in this discussion of the budget between the Ministry of Finance and individual departments, and there was an increase in some items. I mean the preservation of the registers, the Ministry of the Interior, I mean the increase in funding to the water, forestry, the Ministry of Agriculture, I mean the formalities relating to the Ministry of Culture. Without a doubt, the budget is a compromise between government parties. Each of us just doesn't have the same priorities, and I'm glad that compromise happened. Of course, we must also see that there are things within the budget that need to be adjusted, including from the parties to the government coalition, given that agreements on some things took place later in time or that there were some technical requirements that were not dealt with at that time. I mean, for example. Finance within the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, i.e. increase of ISPROFIN, i.e. we have an item in the pension budget and we don't have a crown, a matter relating to auxiliary work, i.e. current employment policy, community service, etc. These are things which, of course, we will still discuss in the second reading and especially when we discuss in the various committees and last but not least, or last but not least, in the Committee on Budgets and then here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies [[16.00 hours]] Here, the perception of the budget from the political plane has one crucial thing. The crucial thing is whether to really save money, put down a budget without a deficit, wait for those days worse, or pay off debts from the past. And I don't think at that moment it's the opulent parties that we've been having. That's 900 crowns for seniors. And the government isn't brilliant, because for seniors, the amount should be three times as big. These are matters relating to the increase in average wages, as I mentioned, in pressure on the private sphere. Of course, we are very well aware today that the growth of the economy will be slightly over 3%, and in the following year it will fall to some 2.5 percent, and the third one that is forecasting so far will be 1.5 percent. We know where the economy is going. We can't tell what critical moments may occur in the economy today. I am referring to the economic crisis caused by, for example, the banking sector, etc. These are surprises that we will have to deal with in a given time. I think that, as the budget has been drawn up, it is a good basis for it to be discussed in committees, it is a good basis for us to address the amendments and the Chamber of Deputies to approve it, because it is a budget that clearly looks not only into the future but also into the past: we are repaying the debts of those who were before us in the government sitting in these benches before us. That is why I would like to thank the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u31	Good afternoon. I, too, thank you, and I will invite Mr Jurečka to the next debate, Mrs Mračková will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u32	Good afternoon, Mr President, Madam Secretary, members and members of the Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. There's been a lot of discussion going on in this marathon this morning, and I'm gonna try to poke out some things that maybe didn't come out here at all. To say where to boost revenue on the part of the state budget is sometimes theoretically very simple, it is practically much more complicated. I've been having these debates for four years, either in the course of government negotiations or in the negotiation of coalition councils and, of course, those simple proposals: we can reduce the expenditure of ministries, we can see their unused demands, let's cut them off - it's a way, but it's not a panacea. We can say: let's cut costs where today's technologies allow us to reduce costs within digitization, in terms of savings on IT systems - it's also a way, but it's definitely not an easy solution to make day-to-day. More or less, there was probably one thing in the debate today, and that's where to boost state budget revenues relatively quickly and where there is quite a lot of potential. When I looked at it from, say, the economic point of view, we know that we have been talking here for a long time, about 2.5 years, about a major labour market crisis and that Czech companies do not have enough workers and have to refuse orders. I confess, I have never noticed any study that would show in detail what the untapped potential of our economy is. When I looked at the numbers, let me just briefly poke some of them out here. We're talking about today when we're talking about companies, that there's some 192,000 jobs really demanded, and companies don't have the full potential to use them, reject contracts, reject other export opportunities. If I take these 192,000 in fact, which are really mentioned as necessary, so if we look at the direct revenues to the state budget, if we could get these people out of us culturally close and safe countries, then just on the lost social insurance -- like this, I'm based on average data, average gross wages, so these are simple numbers that you can verify -- so the loss of annual gross wage is 57 billion. Kč. Lost social security is 18 billion. The loss of health insurance is CZK 7.7 billion. CZK, income tax is CZK 7.8 billion. Kč. In total, a direct blackout for the state budget, respectively. Unrealized income is 33.3 billion. CZK, which the Czech economy could have here today if we had these people here, and where unfortunately, thanks to the not entirely operational approach of the Ministry of the Interior, these things fail. When we look at this from the perspective of other multiplier effects that these people would bring into the Czech economy, it is a total number of 117.448 billion. CZK and we are losing roughly when we convert it to economic performance, by 1.6% of our growth, which could be here. So it's just a look when we're still talking about where we should be able to generate the money, plus it's able to manage effectively and target them where the multiplier effect is the highest in the state's investment aid. I liked the way the President has always said in the past that at least a balanced or surplus budget should be drawn up in times of economic growth. He's got a pretty good idea today, he didn't exactly say it today, he didn't quite apply that sentence or his earlier idea here in the Chamber of Deputies. However, I will now allow myself to look at the issue of the ministries that are close to me and which, in some way, also from the expertise of two committees in the Chamber of Deputies, I see where I think, on the contrary, their budgets should be strengthened. And that's when we look at the Ministry of Transport's budget, so if you're following trends in the last two years, where unfortunately we're increasing the number of fatal injuries in traffic accidents. This is a trend which, unlike most EU countries, where this number is falling, unfortunately, has started to grow in our country. It is a question of how the BESIP works, how the transport police work, but of course it is a question of investing in preventive measures, technical measures within the infrastructure. That is what I think is something that deserves attention, because even those ruined human lives and accidents and their consequences have a relatively significant impact on the state budget of billions of crowns per year. Then it is also a question of investing in roads II. and III. classes. Here we always do such, I would say, a little undignified and unfair communication and a game towards the regions, when it is always ad hoc in a given year to say: in the end we are the two three four billion crowns on the road II. and III. They found the classrooms and we'll add them to you. Now I speak a little from the position of regional representative of the Olomouc Region, when simply underfinancing roads II. and III. the classes are long-term here, and it would be good to deal with these things systematically, over the long term, by strengthening the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure and by enabling systemic changes in legislation so that this fund can provide investments to regions for twos and threes. And now, in conclusion, I've probably kept the thing, I'd say, pretty fundamental, or maybe the most important. We can talk here about the problems we have within infrastructure, within security, within social affairs, but I dare say that the biggest problem is the Czech Republic, our society and the global world with drought, water supply and, above all, this issue will have a great impact on future generations. When you look at the climate change situation, in the last 134 years the average temperature in the Czech Republic has risen by 1.4 °C. Over the past 20 years, the increase is 0.8 °C, and climate scientists assume that when optimistic scenarios are met by the end of the century, with optimistic outlooks, it will be an increase of about 2 °C, with the pessimistic plus 4 °C. This is the biggest problem we have here today, so that our children and our grandchildren are able to live in climate change conditions at all. And unfortunately, we don't respond enough to this with regard to how serious the problem is. I think that at least the strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture's budget in the area of investments in water infrastructure, which deals with the interconnection of networks, their bypassing, so that the Czechs also have the basic raw material that water is available, and if we do not strengthen the financing of so-called. landscaping in the landscape, which restores the landscape as close as possible to natural natural conditions, i.e. the creation of biobands, ties, retention tanks, wetlands, etc., so we can still talk about climate change, but in reality we do very little to make the measures that will face these trends. And I think that here the Czech Republic, the Czech Government should show that even from the budgetary point of view, this area is a priority, and much more should be invested in it. We underestimate it, and in a few years it can come back to us. [[16.10 hours]] Today we read from so far away the articles as empty water tanks are, some say that even those that are for water use, that the level is 50 per cent below the long-term average. We read it and we say to ourselves: it's not really our business, we still have water coming out of the tap. But the problem is serious, the ticking bomb is here. And I dare say we underestimate him. So I would like us to think about these priorities at second reading, which should be more accentuated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u33	Thank you, too. Before I invite other speakers, there is an apology from Mrs Brzobohatá, who apologizes today from 16 a.m. to the end of the day and 25 a.m. tomorrow, for health reasons throughout the day. And now, please, with Mr Koten's factual remark, Mr Jelínek will be prepared. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u34	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. We've been talking about the state budget all day, which chapters are or aren't good, where we can save money, and that budget should be surplus or even. I haven't noticed in the last 28 years that any of these P.O.D.s have built a 200-mile highway or a dam or something. I'm just wondering if this will ever come true in the future, because, as my previous speaker said, we don't think about the future. And the real water problem is highly likely to be due to some climate change, and if we're not ready for it and we're not able to invest the money in that direction, we're going to turn out very badly. So I would very much advocate that this chapter be budgeted in one of the other budgets and that some such projects are actually done here in the Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u35	Thank you, too. I now ask Mr Jelínek to prepare Mr Stanjura with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the budget. At the time of the budget, I think it would be ideal and probably the right time for a debate, for example. on pension reform. Personally, I think that this is a matter that will affect this country, and if it affects this government or another, the responsible government should not move on. Pension reform - there was once one attempt, thanks for it, unfortunately it was not very successful and it turned out the way it did, essentially by abolishing some of the pillars that were supposed to be the basis of this reform. A few numbers, basically average pension and average monthly wage. I don't know if you noticed the ratio, but in 2005, the ratio was almost 55 percent, 43 percent in 2010, 37 percent in 2017. Of course, we do not know what this figure will be after the outcome of the budget and essentially pensions and average wages in 2019, but from this trend it is clear where the entire pension provision is going. And that it's not a very positive view, perhaps we all realize that. If, of course, there are proposals in the budget now for adding pensions, some fixed amounts, not percentages, I personally think that this cannot be sufficient for the further development of this social security. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador!]] I would like to ask the Government to address this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u37	I also thank and please Mr Stanjura with a factual remark, but I do not see him here at the moment, so the comment is failing and we will move on. Please, Mrs Mráčková, for the debate. Mračková - I apologize for my accent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me, too, to comment on the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2019. I did not come forward with a factual remark because I am always nervous about the two-minute limit, yet I would like to respond to some of today's speakers who have just spoken about the state budget. First of all, I would like to comment on Mrs Kovářová, as I have announced, because she is also a member of the Association of Local Authorities, and we are also a little connected, because, of course, she defends cities and municipalities as I do. I also try to defend the regions from the position of chair of the Association of Regions, but of course the regions are part of the cities and municipalities, so they are connected vessels. I would like to say, and everyone knows that, in the framework of the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes, in the past, and let's say for whom governments, especially in the context of tax revenues to cities and municipalities, have reduced the coefficient in the context of value added tax in particular, and it is the previous and current government that has levelled all these differences. VAT has been returned to the regions since 2017 and it has been to the municipalities since 2018. When we compare the amount of tax that cities and municipalities receive in 2019, the increase is almost 15 billion. How much more will the region receive is by 5 billion. This means that the regions will receive about 75 billion. and the municipalities 246 billion. Many of you are local politicians here, so you know that really from the point of view of those tax revenues that are only assumed, the budget, as in the past, is very good this year and that within the tax revenues of the municipality, the city and the region, they are getting far more funding than is expected. And it really bothers me when it says here that the budget is a deficit of 40 billion, that it is a slap in the water, that it is, as Mr Munzar here said through Mr President, that we are irresponsible bohemians. So I guess I'm also an irresponsible bohemian, because I'm building - obviously we can't compare - as Secretary of State's budget, so I'm drawing up a regional budget. And I've compiled the regional budget for 2017 with a deficit of 600 miles. And what was the result? Over-the-counter budget of 900 million. And what we're saying is that the Minister must be primarily responsible for the revenue part, because the revenue part really needs to be filled. Or, if it's all the more, that's a good thing, because, of course, she has to set up the expenditure part as part of the revenue. And when Mrs Kovářová here said that it is not possible to invest certain things, then many of you know that if you put these things in your budget, that you invest, that you build a school, that you will fix it, that you will reconstruct it, then you have a lot of such sudden factors as the Public Procurement Act, such as the building law and other pitfalls that will cause you not to invest the funds in that year. But at that point, you can commit these funds to the next year, or they will eventually fall into your surplus. Well, if, of course, there's no money in the expenditure part, then, of course, they'll fall into the surplus. [[16.20 hours]] I'm going to say that last year, all those reserves, just like this one was done here, means the unused expenses of the individual resorts, so that's where the funds were, where the Treasury found the 4 billion. to repair the roads of the second and third classes for the regions. And I believe that will be the case in the next year. That the Minister is very closely monitoring the budgets of all the ministries and that he is monitoring how they fill the expenditure part. And if it is not fulfilled and there are those unused expenses, then it tries, of course within these funds, to move it by law in some way. The money won't go away. The funds at those departments are in those budgets. I'd like to say one more important thing. Last year, there was also a budget approved with a deficit of 50 billion. I hope you've all listened well today, because I still don't fully understand when you're still talking about irresponsible. As of 22 October this year, the budget has a surplus of 6.3 billion. And last year, we also approved a budget with a deficit of 50 billion. I also have one important thing to say. I think the secretary of finance is really trying very hard with the government. And you all know that the ministries are watching that there are vacant places, that there are black souls and others. The measures in terms of the expenditure part do. Once again, I'm sorry, the captain of the Karlovy Vary Region. For example, I have put in place measures that really all orders and invoices and contracts go through the governor and without his paraphernalia they just won't leave the county. And I guarantee you, during my time on the edge, a number of those orders didn't arrive to me after my return. And that's a fact. I think that is also the way the Minister of Finance is going, and that he is trying to do his utmost. Of course, the reserves are always there, and that's what the Prime Minister said today. But again, I am, of course, a Member very briefly now, but from the other side, and I am sure that Mr Stanjura will confirm to me that unfortunately the Members here approve the legislation and carry the administrative burden and the other responsibilities for which other officials must be employed. And that's also a fact that we should all be aware of. I'm currently having my regional office processed by the director of all agendas. Because we're still adding the agendas, but we're not taking any away. And there are some agendas that these officials are just doing, but they're not for anyone, they're not serving anything, they have no efficiency. So I think that's the way we're going to make sure that the number of officials is reduced. I hope I've said everything. I am therefore convinced that the Ministry of Finance has made the budget responsibly. I'm sure the opposition parties will say it's wrong. Again, I say the figure: last year we approved a budget that had a deficit of 50 billion, to date it is 6.3 billion in surplus. I think this number speaks for itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u39	Thank you, too. Now, please, with the factual remark of President Stanjuru, Mrs Kovářová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u40	One number says everything. To the 22nd. 10th surplus of 6.3 billion. I don't have a problem with that number. I wasn't looking. Madam Secretary has it. But let the secretary tell us another number. Capital expenditure as at 22. 10. Don't invest and say I have a surplus budget, anyone can. I could use the President's favourite phrase, but I won't. Anyone can do that. I agree that many laws bring further administration to municipalities and regions. But I've been voting against those laws for five years. Madam President, your colleagues are voting for these laws. I think the legendary PAP statement would like every mayor to throw the Treasury on his head every day. You've been running the Treasury for five years. Why didn't you cancel the ancillary analytical evidence? Funding twos and threes. Why make it easy when it's hard to do it? We had the SFDI Supervisory Board today. And we're there to evaluate the individual contracts between the regions, how they draw the 4 billion. How many officials do that for a living? Write an application, evaluate the application, sign the contract, check the performance. Wouldn't it be enough to send those $4 billion over the RUD? Simple as that? No, we're gonna use hundreds of officials to do that, and we're gonna thank the secretary for finding the money in February. Why make it easy when it's complicated? Why not send it directly to the tax budget when the government decides to give 4 billion extra to the regions, why not? But why do we invent a grant title? Explain that to my colleague. Does that suit you as a captain? Ask for the money, send applications, write a contract, give an evaluation. Why can't you just send the money straight to the tax budget, why are you doing it so hard? And that's how I could talk... When I sign up, I'll give you a whole bunch of other examples. So... You say you thank the Minister. Madam Secretary, if she wanted to do this simply, she would suggest an increase in the RUD for the regions by 4 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u41	Thank you. Now, please, Mrs Kovářová, with a point of fact, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u42	Let me respond to my colleague Mračková, who has approached and asked the question of whose governments have reduced VAT coefficients and the like. I would also ask her a control question. [[President: By me, please.]] Your way. I was gonna say I'm gonna ask a control question, comrades, but I'm not gonna do that. The question is: in whose government has there been a major amendment to the budgetary determination of taxes? It was during the government when Minister of Finance was Minister Kalousek and it was then possible that municipalities were not discriminated against in funding and have a greater share of VAT. And that was the time when it started. There's one more thing to do. And do you know who was defending this major novel? It was just the Union of Cities and Cities. Remember what happened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u43	Thank you. Now please, with the factual remark of Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Mračková for - yes, through Mr President, that there is a clear exception within the coalition and that she is speaking on the subject. [[President: Through me.]] Well, thank you for that. However, as far as the deficit is concerned, there are three basic questions. If we manage to have the revenue that is planned, and the budget plans it slightly optimistically, the probability that the revenue will be fully implemented is lower than in this year next year, depending on how the budget is proposed. So this is one factor. The second factor is how much we manage to implement the capital expenditure, which is far less than planned in the long run. So this is a typical example - I am not familiar with the situation in the Karlovy Vary Region, but in Prague the huge surplus of the budget is caused by the fact that the subway D did not start to build where it should have been built. And then, of course, it depends on whether there will be any significant economic changes over the course of the year and there will be a need to respond to something. Like floods or something like that. And when the money comes from Europe, or they don't come. And we believe that in the period of growth it is necessary to plan the budget so that if the circumstances meet favorably, so that we create at least some pillow for those years worse, and plan it so that, at best possible, we will be at zero. And if the revenue isn't confirmed as optimistic as it was, we'll be down. So even that zero in this period is not enough given the state debt we have, and given that the crisis will come sooner or later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u45	Time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. Mr Dolínek is still reporting with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u46	Good evening. I do not want to delay you, but through Mr President, the fact that a city saves a billion and a half to pay without a state that does not finance subway D, the subway, and converts it from year to year as an economy owner who has been saved does not mean that it is surpluses. The Minister knows very well where he has the money in his budget, where he can use it for investment and where he returns it back to the budget where they are not used. Please, savings and responsible management aren't equal to you wanting to spend every crown at all costs, because I think you're enjoying it. We're a responsible saver. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u47	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík will respond with a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. I apologize to my colleague Dolínek. I didn't mean to step on his chicken eye. [[President: Through me. Laughs in the hall.]] Through Mr President. I just wanted to say that the surplus management of Prague is due to the fact that investments are not being realized. Voters have already evaluated his activities as a transport councilman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u49	Thank you. Mrs Mračková will respond with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u50	I would like, Madam Members, to respond to Mrs Kovářová through the President. I would like to emphasise once again that VAT has returned to the value of, I think, 21,4% in the case of municipalities since 1 January 2018. It was the regions that did not interfere with this so that really this tax, which is actually the biggest income, is always the biggest tax which, of course, flows into municipalities, towns and regions. So I would like to respond again to the fact that the previous one and this government have succeeded to straighten it out, and we are all very happy and thank you for that. Even to Mr Stanjura through the President. I just want to say that I'm sure you're right that these processes are complicated, and I would also like to say - you were talking about the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, so it was established on the basis of the 2000 Act. The fact that we have established here the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, the Railway Infrastructure Administration, the Road and Motorway Directorate etc., and in my opinion the system is also very complex, and I am a supporter of the fact that everything that takes place outside the region from the point of view of such organizations, I am in favour of it being under the region, let it be under absolute control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u51	Thank you. He will respond with a factual remark by Mr Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u52	I think comparing ŘSD, SŽDC and the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure is unfair. The only thing that connects them is that it's from the transport area. But that's not enough. We need an S.O.D., not as a credit card organization. We didn't have time to transform it into a joint stock company. You guys concreted it for five years. So be it. You know very well when you keep calling yourself the Governor, as the Governor, you know very well when you're running the allowance organization that you can actually do as the founder of the only one. Switching directors. You have no chance of interfering with these trials. That's not at all convenient with the ŘSD. SŽDC is a different case. However, the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, I, as the Minister, proposed a cancellation, is completely unnecessary. The reasons for which it was created were budgetary reasons at that time. Everything that wasn't consumed by 31. 12., went back to the state budget. In the field of transport, it is difficult to close. You don't know how long the construction season will be, what the weather will be like. Today, budgetary rules make it possible. That's the unused expenses. The role of the fund has long survived. Political courage is lacking and political will to abolish it. The moment you suggest it, they'll fall down on you from all sides. From all sides of the world, but also political, I note that I say from all sides, and they will say that you cannot cancel such a fund because it does it or it does it. I don't think the Department of Transport can do that. I don't see any problem with that. I criticized the complex bureaucratic processes that we invent ourselves. Just for the record, raising the community's share, it was a parliamentary proposal from opposition benches, so don't thank the government. That's not correct. The government even rejected it for the first time. Before the election, Andrej Babiš changed his mind, and then, yes, even the votes of the government MPs, otherwise it wouldn't have been possible. The opposition never has a majority. That's a pass. But it's not fair to say: thank you to the government for that. It could have been a year earlier. The government was against it then. We must thank those who have proposed this and who have then obtained support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u53	Thank you for keeping time. At this point, please, to the debate by Mr Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u54	Good afternoon, Mr President, Madam Secretary, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The debate on the state budget at first reading is rich here today. There has been a lot of discussion here about macroeconomic parameters, so I will no longer repeat all the reasons that the opposition referred to, on the one hand, to the planned state budget deficit, but also to the fact that the draft State budget for 2019 is very little for investment. The KDU-ČSL club, as has already been said, has a problem with this. We think that in times of economic growth, the budget should also be drawn up differently in macroeconomic parameters. However, I would now focus on some of the structural areas in my contribution. I'll follow up on my colleague Marian Jurečka to the very beginning. In addition to the fact that the budget should be for investment in times of economic growth, the budget should also respond to the challenges that the Czech Republic currently has. The one fundamental challenge that I think scares not only the citizens of the Czech Republic but also the citizens of Europe, and the problem is the issue of drought, Marian Jurečka spoke here. I will pick up another problem that we are dealing with here and which has also been discussed here several times within this parliamentary term, and that is the barking calamity. This has to do with the drought problem, and both the solution to crust sludge and the solution to drought are priorities, or should be priorities in the coming period. And I am sorry that both of these areas are partially addressed within the state budget proposal, but given how the barking calamity, especially the barking calamity, has developed this year and how the forecast of experts will develop in the coming years, and I am convinced that the measures that are set up under the gesecutive ministries are insufficient. In this respect, I call on the Government and I would like to ask you, too, dear colleagues, to bring further funds to the issue of the solution to the crusty calamity and drought in the state budget and, above all, to look for practical solutions. I am now focusing on two or two areas, two chapters of the state budget that are close to me, and this is the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health. As far as the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is concerned, it is no secret that in terms of volume, it is one of the most extensive chapters, and also in terms of the structure of the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we are discussing them here on a regular basis in the framework of all committee discussions and then in the final reading of the state budget, and it is probably not surprising. I'm assuming that this year's chapter of the MPSV will be very discussed. And I would mention some of the problems that I see in the structure and in the overall volume of the MPSV chapter. The 26th took place. 9. 2018 meeting of the Association of Regions for Social Affairs, which was attended by Minister Maláčová and where the most delicate issue was discussed, and this is the financing of social services. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs requested an amount of CZK 17,2 billion for the draft state budget for 2019. In the current proposal that we have tabled today, the amount of CZK 15.52 billion is proposed. I believe that this amount is insufficient to finance social services. [[16.40 hours]] The main reason I see that the amount is insufficient is because of the personnel situation in social services. You probably remember the debate that took place here last year during the approval of the budget and actually in the previous years. Workers in social services have been underfunded for a long time, and although there was finally a slightly higher wage increase in social services last year, despite all this, the situation is not easy and I think that even the present officials, as well as representatives of municipalities in the cities, could testify to this. That is, if at this point the government is proposing a 5% increase in social service workers' salaries, I dare say that, given the competition on the labour market, social services workers will start running away again. I therefore advise that we prepare an amendment for KDU-ČSL, which will propose an amount of CZK 800 million higher for social services, so as to prevent a crisis in social services. This crisis can also result in restrictions on certain types of services in regions across the Czech Republic. In terms of the structure of the MPSV chapter, I would mention one more area, which concerns investments in the material and technical base of social services. We know it's also an area that we've been discussing a lot in the past. There was a lot of discussion as to whether the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs could use the allocated amounts. We all know that, given how long construction and public procurement often take, that sometimes it is a bit of a problem, but the need to invest in social services, even given the need for demographic development, is clear. And if at this point they are drying up European Union funds to support projects into social services, then if we do not stand up to it as a state, then we are once again condemning a part of the citizens that they will not get their capacity in social services. So much for the budget of the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. As far as the Ministry of Health chapter is concerned, there is a slightly different situation. We all know that health care in our country is primarily provided by public health insurance and the way in which it benefits financially depends on the condition of public health insurance and the effectiveness of its use. So the Ministry of Health's budget is relatively small in this respect, but even here I think the structure is not quite set up in all respects. I would mention two areas that I think are worth considering. The one problem that is long-term, and here I would not put it on the shoulders of the Minister of Health, the problem really has been here for several years, is a significant understatement of the functioning and development of primary disease prevention. We are a state that gives priority funds to acute health care and to care for long-term patients. That, of course, is absolutely right. However, if we compare ourselves in terms of health quality with countries such as Denmark, Finland, Sweden, but also some others, we have not progressed in terms of health quality in the last decade or perhaps in the last 15 years. And we all know that we can pour any funds into acute care, we can prolong life expectancy, but we will move very little in terms of health quality. Primary prevention is a cinderella in this country, and unfortunately, stagnation and funds in this area have been obvious in the last decade. That is, here I would like to appeal to the Minister, perhaps not just to the budget of 2019, but also to the future. If we want to make health care more effective as well as improve the quality of our population's health, let us focus on primary prevention. And it is both the Health 2020 programme, but also the follow-up programmes where we have slept in this regard, and we need to wake up as quickly as possible. The second area I would mention is investment. As I have mentioned in the social areas as well as in health terms, the means we have from the European Union to restore the material-technical base, both directly managed by organisations and health establishments in the regions, are drying us out. This means that if we cannot find investment funds to restore both faculty hospitals and other important health establishments, we will be in a very short time in relatively large problems. I know that for this year, or in 2019, some events are planned. I thank the Department of Health for that. However, there are a number of other problematic situations of spatial and equipment in both faculty hospitals and in some other health establishments. I would mention one particular case here. I hope the directors of the other health establishments won't be mad at me, because they would certainly name dozens of them, but Mr. Minister and I visited the Center for Cardiovascular and Transplant Surgery in Brno during a different period, which is a very high-end workplace. I dare say it's such a Moravian IKEM. And we both saw the situation there. The medical facility operates top cardiovascular surgery, top transplant care, but patients in postoperative regimens have very, very unbearable conditions. So I would like to ask both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, at least in the 2020 budget, with the actions that are necessary in this respect, that is, either the reconstruction of the existing building or the planning of a new one to count on it, because the situation of this institute, in my view, does not really belong to the present time. Dear colleagues, I am convinced that we still have a few challenges in the state budget. I'm just gonna do it again. The KDU-ČSL Club includes: the fight against drought, the fight against bark sludge, the means of operation and investment in social services, the prevention of disease. And, of course, we do not resist any other changes that will be beneficial in the budget debate, of course, the development of transport infrastructure and others, all of which I think is still for discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u55	I also thank you, and now I have a report for the debate with the priority right of President Faltýnek, after him Minister Schillerová and then President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u56	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. I'm almost all day today, not 100%, but almost all day listening carefully to the debate on the state budget for next year. Today is October 24th. Do you know who's having their anniversary today? Does anyone know? [[A voice from the diaper: He knows.]] He doesn't know. I'll get to it soon. The main thing in the debate, which sounded basically from all opposition representatives, from all sides, was the criticism that a deficit budget was planned at a time of economic growth. I will keep this detailed analysis until the second reading, so that we don't have time to discuss the topic of the visit of the President of the Chamber of Deputies in Moscow, but the basic information should be given to colleagues who may not have been here during the previous parliamentary periods. If I take this from 2000, when economic growth was 4.6 percent of GDP, then the deficit was minus 46 billion, for example 2006, no matter who ruled and who was the Minister of Finance, now I am not addressed, I am not criticizing anyone, I am merely commenting on dry figures, so in 2006, when economic growth was 7.1 percent of GDP, it was planned in budget 83.7 billion minus and the reality was minus 97.3. [[16.50 hours]] We have achieved the record - but that was the economic downturn - that is, to be objective - in 2009, when we struck an axe into a sovereign debt of CZK 192 billion. The champion is, and who gets first place? Miroslav Kalousek. [[Unique applause from different places of the hall]] No, folks, wait a minute, we're not gonna be able to slap until later. This only responds to the way my colleague Kovářová spoke here, when she praised one of our best finance ministers. So just for your information, former finance minister Miroslav Kalousek, our esteemed colleague, has succeeded in producing a debt of CZK 667 billion during the term as Finance Minister, which was 1943 days. Rounded. That's quite a performance. Now, why is today's anniversary? October 24, 2012, dear friends, some may remember this, an interesting thing has happened. For the first time in the history of the Czech Republic, for the first time in the history of the state budget negotiations, the Minister of Finance, who then planned CZK minus CZK 100 billion for 2013, asked the Minister of Finance, but not as the Minister of Finance, but as a Member of the Miroslav Kalousek, for the Government to redo the budget. So that's how the state budget was sometimes discussed. And I wanted to remind all of us in the Chamber of Deputies and those who weren't here and didn't sit, but also those who were here and sat down to remember and be objective in those debates with regard to the state budget. And as far as the specific numbers and comparisons are concerned, I'd like to save that for the second reading. And finally. It wasn't the intention to piss off my colleague Kalousek at all, and I would like to thank him for his suggestion, and that's true...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u57	Please turn directly through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u58	Excuse me... through the Vice-President, I would like to thank President Kalousek for giving us the opportunity, and on his proposal, to actually devote the whole day to the debate on the state budget. And I thank him once again from this place. . [[Let's hear it for members of the YES]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u59	Well, thank you, too, now please, with a factual remark from President Kalousek. . [[Member Kalousek off microphone: With priority right]] Well, with priority rights, I've had some before. So in that case... with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u60	I'm a long way from getting mad, but if there's a reminiscence on the past, we just need to be aware of the paces and the trends. That year 2009 really ended in a staggering deficit because it was after the Lehman crisis, when Topolánkův's government prepared an amendment to the State Budget Act in February and March, but the government fell in the middle of the Presidency, and therefore the amendment did not happen. I am not saying that the budget would not have ended in a deficit greater than planned in 2008, because it was planned to be 38 billion, but it would certainly not have ended 190 if the government had not taken a completely irresponsible step, and therefore the amendment did not take place because the administrative government had no interest in amending it. For those years to come, it should be noted that something called fiscal effort needs to be measured. This means the government's efforts to reduce deficits by actively taking action. And even in the Ministry of Finance's data, it's said that our history has consolidated at a rate of 60 billion a year. It was a very sharp pace, and many still criticize us for saving very badly. Maybe so, maybe we could save less, then we'd have bigger deficits again. It is possible to criticize us for being too economical, it is possible to criticize us for having big deficits, but only a total demagog, such as Chairman YES, can criticize us with one mouth for both. Because I just can't. Thank you for your attention. . [[Applause for Members of the TOP 09]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u61	I thank you for the time being and please note in fact to Mrs Kovářová, Mr Válek will be prepared. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, let me respond to President Faltýnek's speech. I would have assumed that, after such long speeches by opposition Members, the Prime Minister would join the debate and refute some of the opposition Members' reservations. I would imagine a dignified discussion of the draft state budget. Such a Mrs. Captain Mračková, at least she mentioned, although I did not agree with her, she made some arguments. You've resorted to this...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u63	Through me, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u64	Sorry, Mr President. The only thing you can prove is that you're turning around and you're always swinging by the name of Kalousek. I think... [[Mr. Faltynek from his bench opposes.]] Do not yell at me, through Mr President. Don't yell at me and behave with dignity, please. You've resorted to what you've been doing for years. You're dirtying Mr. Kalousek's name. We're looking forward. So tell us, what's bothering you about our performances? And it is not only by lashing out with one name. Indeed, this is undignified, through Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u65	Thank you. I ask for more peace, and I ask Mr War, Mr War, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I would allow myself, through the President, to return to those anniversaries, because today is a series of anniversaries. One of those anniversaries is the birth date of Emperor Tito Flavio Domitian. titus Flavius Domitianus - the last of the Flavian generation to come - was expected by the Roman Senate with great expectations. Today we know that he was a tyrant who treated the Senate very rudely, rudely, insulted him, and his position appreciated only history, unfortunately even history. I hope we don't have an anniversary like this today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u67	I thank you and therefore now with priority rights, President Bartošek and then Minister Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u68	Thank you for the floor. My contribution will be very short. Recently, the government has suggested that we increase police officers by about a thousand new police officers. I agree with this intention, but it must be made clear that it is nothing new and discoverable. We know that the state of police has long been under the condition we need. And without being able to pay the police properly, it is not possible to address new people in a meaningful way who would like to work in the police. Because if the police's starting salary is somewhere around 15-17,000, they're deep below what they're able to offer to the shopkeepers. And I think it's undignified when it comes to police work because it's the safety of our country. And here we should really support and appreciate the work of the police, even with regard to salaries, especially in the first five years, when the most frequent departures of new police officers occur. For this reason, I believe that the ideal condition would be if the police's starting salary were 20,000 net. On the one hand, I appreciate the government's steps in raising the police's salary by 8 percent, but it still seems inadequate to me. For this reason, I will put forward an amendment that will raise police salaries by 2 per cent to 10 per cent initially requested, because I believe that our policemen deserve it and that it is necessary to reward them properly. [[17,00 hours]] The second thing, and this concerns investments that have been repeatedly mentioned here today. I am convinced that, unfortunately, the Fire Rescue Corps has been underfunded for a long time. There are a number of projects that are under construction or that need to be completed. For this reason, I will also table an amendment here. I personally estimate that the lack of money towards firefighters is somewhere around one billion. I will submit at least a third, which means I will submit an amendment to 300 million because I believe that firefighters are part of the rescue files, and they need to be taken care of, because it is necessary for firefighters to have a good background to help them do so. It is not crucial money in relation to the state budget. It's a little different with the salaries, but with the firefighters, it's actually under the discernment of budgets. So I'm just calling ahead to deal with this area for myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u69	Thank you, too. Now it's Minister Schillerová's turn. [[He is speaking with Mr Bartošek, not one of whom is aware.]] Madam Secretary, are you interested in your performance? [[Yes.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u70	Thank you, Mr President. We were there discussing salaries in the armed forces with President Bartošek. I'm sorry. Thank you for the floor. I've been listening very carefully to all the arguments that went down all day, taking notes, I've got a whole series of graphs here. I'm gonna be as material as I always am, and I'm only gonna respond to what has been said here, that means, I'm not gonna deviate, I'm gonna actually react - and I'm gonna wonder if I'm gonna take it from this afternoon to the morning, but I'm gonna take it from this morning, just like I made notes, whatever it is. Yes, responsible budgeting is in setting trends. I totally agree with that. That's an indisputable fact. Public budget trends. So that's why we're watching the balance adjusted for the effect of the business cycle. I said it in the opening word, I repeat it here all the time. According to the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility, there may be less than one percent of GDP, with us moving around plus one percent of GDP. So these are the trends we follow. The health of public finances, the structural balance and, of course, the amount of debts. Mandator spending is falling relative to GDP. Let me draw my first graph. [[He's pointing.]] They're falling relative to GDP. If we were to talk about an absolute decline, it would mean a decline, for example, of an average pension, or a lower number of pensioners, in terms of rising prices and wages in the economy and developing the population structure is a completely unrealistic requirement. Both macro and tax risks are shifted down. Yes, I allowed it here. We have it in all official documents that we believe the macro will be moving about three percent next year, up to three percent. Of course, the prediction will be refined. However, we still believe that it is a macro based on completely real foundations. As I said in the introductory words, I also support surveys of predictions by other domestic and foreign institutions. By the way, today we've been evaluated by credit rating agencies as the 11th country with the best rating and from the V4 or the former Eastern bloc, we're in first place. Today's very fresh report, during the morning I recorded it in the CTK, so it just stuck in my head. President Kalousek spoke in his morning entry about the fact that we basically had insufficient investment and compared it to 2012, when he said that in 2012, when there was a deep crisis, they actually had bigger investments. On the Committee on Budgets, he spoke of the years 2008 and 2009. Okay, so I'm gonna be in the summers of 2012, I've got this whole development here since 2007. Firstly, it must be said that it is not possible to compare incomparable, which means that there is no comparison between reality and budget. That means we can either compare the plan vs. the plan or the reality vs. reality. So when I look at the year 2012, there was basically a plan, if I can see right, 96,9 in drawing. And when I look at it, I have exact graphs here, so of course most of it did the EU's revenue, or virtually. expenditure from the EU. This means that we must also realise when we are giving from national sources, when they are EU incomes, and actually comparing what really belongs to each other. On the contrary, if I had to go back to 2008 and 2009, but I won't, because I want to be correct, it didn't fall today, it just fell on the Committee's budget, so there were other criteria involved, and that basically the programming period overlapped, and that just always plays a role like that. Therefore, I will also not highlight, for example, the years 2015, 2016 where we got into exactly the same position, which means that we have overlapped with each programming period. Then it was said that capital expenditure in terms of percentage of that their drawdown in relation to the percentage of GDP that they were moving below for example in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012. Well. At what cost? It's true. This is where I see 2010. [[It's showing another graph.]] The percentage to GDP was, capital expenditure, the percentage of total expenditure about 10.3; it was 3.3 against GDP. In 2009, it was 11.4; compared to GDP 3.4. For 2019 we plan 8.1; against GDP 2.2. At what cost? At the cost of a huge planned deficit. Just for comparison. I was looking at 2010, just like I was doing, actually studying history, so there was a macro 2.3, but a quadruple deficit. Deficit that moved almost over 150 billion. For 2019, we are planning a macro of about three percent and a deficit of 40 billion, i.e. 0.7 percent of GDP. [[Big noise in the hall from the right side and from the government bench.]] I might still be able to show for comparison, it's colorful, so it'll be nice to see. [[It shows a blue-green graph.]] Since 2013, you have two graphs of each other - an approved budget for capital spending and reality. The green part is always EU funds, the blue part is national resources. So just for comparison, here you can see that from national sources we are planning almost 80 billion. So she's really a numbers game, and then it's possible to play with them like that when we just take things out of context. So we really have to face them. And I don't want to do that at all, because I want to be correct and I don't want to bring up any old pains here, so beyond the generosity of my own, how problematic it was to draw oil at a time when actually a large amount of about 14 billion was covered by a criminal report. But I'm just leaving it now, and there's no way I'm going to discuss it any further. [[Horrible noise in the hall.]] As far as the percentage is concerned, capital expenditure is increasing. Year 2018 6,6 % of total expenditure. 2019 8,1 per cent of total expenditure. Non-investment purchases increase by 4.7 percent, i.e. by 5.6 billion crowns to 124.8.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u71	I would like to ask the House to calm down a bit. The noise level's rising. The discussion circles are expanding. So I'd like to ask for more peace. Please let the Minister speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u72	But in terms of spending structure, and I'm going to show a graph in a moment, so it's just not worth talking about. Social system, in particular social expenditure on pension benefits. It will not endanger the crisis, which is constantly threatened here, as it is setting them up for the future and putting an end to the retirement age. But this issue will be dealt with by the government. It has already been the subject of several coalition councils, preparing, MPSV will submit an analysis under this law on the subject. This means that we are agreed by the end of the year to submit an analysis and a proposal for substantive solutions. There's been a constant increase in mandatorial expenses. The most important thing fell here, I'm gonna pull out the pie in a minute, they're pensions and the social system. And we need to ask ourselves a question. I remember when the Chamber of Deputies voted here, this Chamber of Deputies, on raising pensions, so, as I recall, it was approved by a large majority of Members. And I don't think it's just financial but also human to play a role here. This also means that real pensions are the highest increase in pensions in ten years. I'm not saying it's retirement reform. Oh, no. This is an adjustment to the pension system so that pensions are raised in a way that corresponds at least partially to the standard of living of our people and, in essence, that the amount of pensions does not correspond to this standard of living. President Okamura spoke of a slowdown in the economy. We're counting on it, we've got it, like I said, in all our official materials, it's embedded in the design. We are well aware of the risks and the Ministry of Finance describes them transparently. But on the other hand, and we're definitely gonna talk about this in the next reading, if the state budget gets into them, I believe it does, so we have to figure out where to cut. Because sometimes suggestions, I'm sorry, and now I'm not addressed, they're really demagogical. Does that mean what bothers us? A higher number of teachers? That we're raising their salaries to keep these people in that system? That we're raising salaries in the public sector and armed forces? Which, in the end, I've heard from the mouth of the opposition that it should rise. Otherwise, we've paid 28 percent in the last two years to the armed forces. Twenty percent of the last government, 8 percent we're increasing as of January 1st. And it's okay. Note that in the public sector, more than 30 percent of employees are educated in higher education. Maybe the number's even higher, so don't take my word for it. That means if we want a professional public administration, we just have to pay for it. And here I think the past has remained very, very indebted. [[There is constant unrest and noise in the hall, MEPs discussing in the nooses.]] We're working on reducing jobs, and I'm gonna pull another one out of the charts, and I'm gonna show you, maybe you can give me some advice on where to lower. Where to cut. However, we began with dead souls. I think we're the first ones to get into something like this. It wasn't easy at all, you talk. It was very difficult, because when you talk about it in general and then you sit down with the resorts and you insist on it and you take the money, of course it's uncomfortable. And we say in one breath, it's the first step. But on the other hand, I'm gonna let you see the graphs in a minute, and maybe I'll do it now so I don't put it off. [[It's showing a graph.]] Well, it's not that dramatic. President Kalousek spoke here, if I remember correctly, if not, then perhaps on the Committee on Budgets, comparing the increase in the number of my employees compared to 2013 and 2019 by 44 919 seats. Well, look at that, there it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u73	I would like to ask for peace in the Chamber, Members and Members to settle in the benches or to transfer discussions outside the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u74	31 060, that means 69 percent, they do employees in regional education. 4 159, that's 9 percent, they do police officers, firemen, prison services, customs. It's okay, right? Occupational soldiers, 1 922, that's 4 percent. And the other employees, that's 7778, that's 18 percent. So we'll take the other employees, the 7778, there could theoretically be a reserve in the opinion of the opposition, so let's see. Forty-seven percent, that means 3,623, the authorities are doing our jobs. And you know why? You know why? I'll tell you. Because they've taken historical charge of ammunition. That's why we have so many. Next we have, these are no longer large items, but we will stick to them gradually: Ministry of the Interior 5 %, 425. Ministry of Regional Development 7 %, 557. Employees of the Ministry of Industry and Trade 4 %, employees of the courts 2 %, civil servants in prison 5 %, employees of the SACUIB 3 %, employees of the Financial Administration 942 units, it is 12 %. It was in connection with the EET agendas and control reports. And the rest 1 155, 15 percent. So, of course, these are the reserves that we're going to review consistently, as well as the reserves at the resorts. But let's not expect any dramatic results from this. I'll do it myself, but on the other hand, you just see for yourself that the structure makes sense. Of course, I have another graph, the structure of the employees from the point of view of the state budget and the comparison of 2019 and their change from 2018. Here I have exactly how many people are doing numerically, and I have also where there is either a zero increase or there has been an increase, or there is a fall. Look here, I won't be here, I can read it, I can lend it to anyone, anyone. [[It's pointing to the graph.]] But I'll take the biggest pies. Pedagogists, 16 109, yes, we increase educators from 1 January 2019. Aren't we supposed to do that? Anyone against it? Against educators? I don't think it is. Unedagogues, we don't raise. And that's the biggest item, and then we're talking basically in pieces. And you have minuses, so we're reducing it. So just to figure out what we're talking about, what we're talking about here, when we're looking for savings. And I'd like someone to tell me where they see the space. There's been a whole bunch of things falling over here that I'm going to say, they've been a lot of detailed things for the next reading. But I still have to respond to Mr. Skopeček. And that's one thing. He says that - and I actually said it here yesterday, I will not deny it, I will never do it and I will not do it - I said that we planned a deficit of minus 50 billion for 2018, we have planned it, approved it by the Chamber of Deputies, and that according to our forecasts, as we are actually developing European money, the revenue development towards the end of the year, so I have already officially stated that I am expecting a balanced budget. And I said that I believe that next year will also be better than the plan. But there is a difference, and I, with all humility, approach the State Budget Act, prepare it with the utmost responsibility, but it is necessary to realise what is taken into account and what must be taken into account by the Minister of Finance in preparing the State Budget Act. Minister of Finance, respectively. The Ministry of Finance, headed by the Minister of Finance, has three essential functions. In addition to the function of redistribution, when it actually provides for a kind of transfer of social benefits, etc., pensions, allocation, it ensures the salaries of civil servants, so it has mainly the role of stabilization. That means a stabilizer in the economy. And they must take into account risk factors in the State Budget Act. This means that when the draft State Budget Act is presented, yes, it is a political issue, that is, political priorities must be taken into account, so some maximum expenditure and estimated revenue will be presented in accordance with the macroeconomic forecast that the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts called realistic for the first time this year. And in the long run, it's done in a conservative realistic way. And that's what we need to come out of. [[17.20 hours]] Then, of course, there are other factors to be taken into account. We are following the development of brexit, which, of course, could have an impact on our economy under certain circumstances. We're watching the negotiations. We're analyzing these things, the risks associated with it. We monitor internal risks, i.e. labour market developments, this place has fallen several times. We're overemployed. We've got 300 grand. Leisure seats. We just see it in the tax quota. Yes, which is rising for us, Mr Skopečka, but for the reason that the revenue of the state budget is structured in this way, that over 50 percent of us are making social contributions. Of course, we also play a role in other factors, secondary to the fact that our real estate market is growing, etc. We are monitoring the development of EU money. It depends, of course, on the programming period we are in, how we manage to draw on, how we manage to invest in certain projects and programmes. So these are all things that must be taken into account when preparing the state budget, and therefore the state budget, or draft state budget law, must be prepared with caution in the revenue side in particular. And that, of course, is what's happening. That's why we expect a better result. But we just have to take into account all these factors. And the result of this government's political priorities - and I think they're set right, that sometimes they're going to add pensioners, when they're going to raise their salaries in the public sector, when they're going to raise their salaries to teachers at other times than when the economy is going well. And our economy has been going well for six years, and I'm glad for that, very much. And on the other hand, don't resign on investment. I don't think we've resigned the 80 billion. it's just record-breaking from national sources. In addition, in relation to the share of GDP, the mandatory expenditures are falling, which I clearly showed you on that chart. At the same time, we have not resigned to other things such as sport, such as subsidies that go to municipalities, which are managed by the Ministry of Regional Development, such as science, research, where we added - in the end, Mr Bělobrádek also appreciated it. But, of course, science, research is another subject, and I'm sure we'll talk about that at other readings or at the board of budget. It's also about quality, not just about putting money in there in some way. So much fast. I have a whole series of technical responses to President Stanjure when he was talking about SFDI and those things. There are a number of problems caused by the fact that a number of forms and a number of those documents that he referred to were reported for the reasons of the CSU. They have been dealt with, they have promised to limit some other information that entrepreneurs must provide. I'm going to deal with them again, or maybe the municipalities, we're talking about the municipalities, the municipalities, I'm going to talk to them further. I have an appointment with the President on the subject that we will be presenting a clear decline in forms and documents to be reported by the end of the year. And most importantly, we unite them because something is reported for example. for Financial Administration, something for the Czech Statistical Office. I still owe you, President Stanjur, one number at a speed at the moment, and that is the number of capital spending to date, you asked. It's 72.2 billion, that is. 80,2 %. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u75	Thank you, Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. With a factual point, since we are still in the debate, the debate has not been closed, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Pikal is reporting. Mr Vice-President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u76	Hello. I'd just like to respond a little bit to the aids that were waved here. If we're already waving graphs - and I don't object when they're in a reasonable dimension, I'd like to ask that if it's pie charts, so it's not 3D pie charts, because the 3D pie chart deforms the view of those parts and creates the impression that some of the parts that are closer are bigger than they really are. So if we're gonna wave the pie charts, please don't be 3D. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u77	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And that is how the debate is exhausted. [[Objection from the diaper.]] Oh, well, I just jumped in instead of a colleague of Pikal's, who claimed a point of fact, so I'm gonna give it to him. President Stanjura and President Kalousek also have priority rights. Well, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u78	Thank you for the floor. When I volunteered, I didn't know what the secretary was gonna do to us. It reminded me of boxing going around with that bike. [[Shows with paper over his head]] But when the Minister already uses graphs and uses a graph of how mandatorial expenditures are falling against GDP, it's a pity that he doesn't have a graph, maybe he does, and she just hasn't shown us how capital expenditures are falling against GDP. Madam Secretary, you're saying that the opposition here - and you're right, and I would say from all the opposition clubs - is criticizing the amount of capital spending, so I would expect some reaction. You say 80 billion. from national sources is a record number. But when it suits you, you use an absolute number, and when it suits you, you use a relative number and a ratio to GDP. So I'd like to ask if you have it at your disposal or next time to show us the ratio of capital expenditure to GDP. And it's just rusty and low. And the secretary here can say what she wants, how she complimented herself - I always speak facts and only facts. However, I want to start positive. I want to start positive. The draft budget is processed professionally. Anyone who wants answers their questions there. Some prefer to use the word "professionally" - the Minister said so too - transparently. So transparent, it doesn't bother me at all. I think it's professionally right and normal. So I want to appreciate the professional level of preparation of this material. Let's see if we can find out from this material any ambition of the Czech government to improve life in the Czech Republic, get the Czech Republic among the best countries in the world, whether we feel and find some significant budgetary priority with which the opposition can or may not agree. I understand that. And that budget is bland, instant, bureaucratic, nothing to say. 150 billion. increase in income. And the Minister uses the same rhetorical exercise as Mr Volný - but you don't want to take away the old people from the 36 billion.! So I want to remind you that all the MPs voted in favour of this increase, it was not the victory of the government over the opposition, it was a consensus. And I want to remind you that the government majority has refused to raise pensions primarily to women who have been retired for over 25 years. It was rejected by the government majority. The Senate pushed it, the Senate suggested it, the government majority rejected it. That's three or four billion. At the same time, the government has 150 billion at its disposal. And those hundreds of thousands of women who have been able to take thousands of crowns a month since January have been abandoned by the government. So I don't know where the Minister gets the courage to criticize the opposition for not wanting to add to the elderly. So that's 150 billion. We're going to subtract the 36 billion, we're going to have 114 billion left that the government could have allocated somewhere, somewhere. The consensus, and I think that a great political consensus, is in strengthening the resources for education. At the same time, however, we must say whether all expenditure in the field of education is effective. The honest answer is that they're not. So even though we support this increase, we're going to point out pointless spending in this area. We will not propose a reduction in total expenditure but, if necessary, a change in the location of the funds so that they are effective. [[17.30 hours]] If I am not mistaken, it is 26 billion in education and expenditure. extra. So 38 pensions and 26 billion. Education spending, it's 64 billion. No one in the opposition questioned that. Nobody! Or I didn't notice him, maybe I'm wrong, and the secretary will fix me. In addition, the government had 86 billion. And that wasn't enough for her to make a 40-billion-dollar budget. Where are the other priorities? Where's the other 86 billion.? Come on, all sorts of things. Madam Secretary wants to advise where to save money. I welcome this effort. We will bring her amendments in the second reading. But I generally say, Madam Secretary, look at a simple item that is almost everywhere: national subsidy programs. I know agriculture is this government's holy cow, that it must not touch subsidies in agriculture, but let's look at all the grant titles from national sources. Unbelievable number. This government says that the EET is balancing the business environment. That's not true. But what perverts the business environment clearly is subsidies, and if anyone claims that it isn't true, they lie. Only some get subsidies. They get a competitive advantage. Let's look at the investment incentives. Who's taking them? A small Czech businessman or a big company? I think we all know the answer. So if we want to save money, and that's not even saving money, it's a waste of money that's against someone, not just for the benefit of someone, but they're working against those who don't, so here we have a lot of space. Madam Secretary wants to advise where to reduce the number of officials. I have surprisingly prepared a more detailed presentation today on the chapter of the MPSV, the biggest chapter. Madam Secretary, in our opinion, you can cancel 300 positions at MPSV headquarters. Make your colleague do it! Look at the development of the number of employees on the MPSV. Has the ministry's performance increased? Did they get new powers, new tasks? We didn't! So it's just the MPSV, and then I'm going to do it in detail, 300 jobs at headquarters. This has nothing to do with the employment office. We have to have more people at the employment offices because we have record unemployment. We have record unemployment, we can agree on that! The numbers are great. But at the same time, the secretary said in her previous speech that we needed more people there, so the labor authorities had to do it. So I'll also look at unemployment benefits for next year. Do you think they're lower than this year? They're not lower. Are we expecting a substantial increase in unemployment? I did not find this in the macroeconomic forecast based on the Ministry of Finance's budget. So if we look at the numbers, and I think the most correct thing is to assess expenditure towards GDP. We know it in the field of defense. I think if we counted it for the next year, 1.19 percent. Do you remember those of you who have been in government for five years when you solemnly said, until and at what rate will you increase your defense spending to 1.4 percent in the last parliamentary term, to be fair? Is it going well? It's not working! Are there economic conditions? They are! Why is it not successful when the economy is growing and so much revenue is growing? I don't understand this at all, Madam Secretary. So try to give me some advice and answer why your plan isn't working out. We have even more ambitious, but let us come out of the figures that, in the last parliamentary term, the ČSSD coalition, YES and KDU said how to get to 1.4 percent of GDP in defence spending. I think we'll give you some advice. If we already have nearly half a million employees in the public administration, when will the trend stop? Madam Secretary solemnly announced that she canceled, I don't know how many - a thousand black souls, Madam Secretary, or two thousand? How much? 1,300 black souls, places that weren't occupied, so it was simply canceled. Excellent! Let us look at the draft budget and see how many new jobs the government is proposing. I can't find it now, so I'm gonna try it out of my head. [[Secretary Schiller's note.]] Then lend me your chart, Madam Secretary. How many new jobs will be created next year according to the draft budget? Hold on a second - 16,000! Sixteen thousand new jobs, and we're saving jobs. We've crossed out 1,300 and we'll make 16,000, so the result is plus 14,700, and that's what the Secretary of State says he's investigating! Just as the secretary cut the deficit - planned to be fair, from 50 to 40 billion. So we, who sometimes watch eKLEP, will certainly answer us, because not everyone is watching the EEKLEP as it was achieved from that June to September from 50 billion. 40 billion.? Where the secretary cut the 10 billion.? Which poor resorts lost 10 billion.? The answer is simple: No one has lost anything. The revenue blew, and it's called an investigation. That reminds me of an old school joke about a kid in the Scottish family coming home and saying, Daddy, I saved two pence. And he says, "How so? I ran next to the bus instead of driving. And his father scolds him. He says if you run next to a cab, you'll save two pounds! That's how she saves the secretary - 10 billion. She saved by raising her income. [[Applause and entertainment on the right.]] I don't want to debate the amount of revenue right now, and I said it on the budget committee. I consider the revenue to be slightly optimistic, but I would put emphasis on the word slightly, not optimistic. That means I wouldn't criticize the government for that, not even the Minister. And if economic growth is not 3.1, but 3.0, it will have no fatal impact on the state budget balance. Unlike the Minister and some previous speeches, I don't think it's a good idea to plan anything else and then to shave with other results. I think it's fair to say that in the order of billions, the variance between plan and reality is normal. There's no way to plan this. Anyone who's ever drawn up a budget in much smaller numbers than the state budget will tell you that you can't hit it at 10,0%. And if you have 1,500 billion. expenditure, so the simple calculation of 1% is 15 billion, so if you're wrong about 5-7 billion, you're in the tenths of percent. So there's no criticism in this budget, or just very slightly. I would like to point out three basic figures to the difference between this government's budgetary policy and this draft budget - as I said, instant, colourless, without priorities, you see nothing like this - and the way we, the conservative budgetary policy of civil democrats, would draw up such a budget in these revenues. We take that 65 billion. The increased expenditure, which means pensions and education, is the priority of all member clubs, so we keep them. And we're left with about 85 billion more. We would reduce the tax on dependent activities, leave around 60 billion in our wallets and our citizens' accounts, employees' accounts. This would contribute to the competitiveness of the Czech economy, increase household incomes and increase the purchasing power of our citizens. Hardly, and I will not estimate how much of this money would be invested in purchasing services and goods and how much would be returned to the state budget, whether in the form of excise duties or value added tax paid. And we'd still have 25 billion. available for the higher income. And that's the difference. And here, if we were to draw up a budget like this, you would see one ambition that is very important - to have low and simple taxes. It's not a little ambition. We don't see any of this in the draft budget. We were discussing the tax package yesterday. Even in the tax package, we do not see the ambition to have low and simple taxes. We're not dealing with anything important. I don't mean to say that this is meaningless, but nothing substantial, some ambition to significantly reduce and simplify taxes is simply not visible there. But we can see the EET. And if we look at the budgetary perspective and have a very difficult debate on the EET's budget benefits, for example, for 2020, the Ministry of Finance logically and optimistically assumes that all EET's waves will work and that all EET's revenue will be in the budget in 2020. And by far, it's not the 18 billion I have hidden in that book by Andrej Babiš, where he says it's the bottom conservative estimate, 18 billion. per year. And that's the way it always is with the numbers. It's either a control report or an EET, and maybe the entrepreneurs that it works for them, so they have some meaning for it, but it's just not real. [[17.40 hours]] My colleague Mr Skopeček said that - the government has actually focused on one side of the budget for five years, on income. In five years, and the Secretary of State has been in office for less than a year, so he has the responsibility... [[Secretary Schiller responds off the microphone.]] How much? Ten months, and that's less than a year, Madam Secretary, I think we can agree that ten months is less than a year. So he can't be held responsible for five years. Because the Ministry is a Monocratic office, the Minister decides, the Deputys don't decide, they do the Minister's will, and that's what it's supposed to be, so he has ten months' responsibility. No ambition to change anything on the expense side. Yes, the Minister said: raising pensions is not a pension reform. Well, none of us even thought it was retirement reform. I don't know, maybe one of you, but from the opposition, no one thought it was retirement reform. But it's also about the number of employees, the structure of the authorities, actually no new electronization, digitalization, simplification. If we want to have a professional government or a public administration that the Minister spoke of, and I believe we all want it, then the way is not to receive more and more officials. The way is to streamline, reduce the number of regulations, regulate, but also the number of duties that the officials do. They mostly do what comes into being in this Chamber of Deputies, the new responsibilities. Some of my previous speakers spoke about the emergence of new administrative duties on the part of municipalities, towns and regions. But we can do something about that. Who but the legislators? Do you see any ambition in that budget to do anything about it, bureaucracy? No ambition. So there's no point in arguing about whether it's professional, showing graphs, pies. Well, that's fine, but where's the priority? Pensioners to benefit from economic growth is not a priority, but a clear gift. Who could be against it? When it's a match, it's not a priority, it's normal, and it's supposed to be done. But we don't see any moves on the goal, just simple maintenance. And it's a shame, and it's a wasted opportunity. Now, if you don't mind, since I've appointed some ministers here this morning, I've immediately added a share of their expenses, both to the Minister of Transport and to the Minister of Education, so I'd like to address the biggest chapter in the state budget, and that's the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And I don't see the Minister here, but it's 637 billion that the Minister should defend, and she's not here. She's got almost as much together as all the other ministers. But let's just say a few words about this chapter. Possible savings, one I've already said, 300 jobs, average salary of 40,000, with contributions of 53 600, savings of 193 miles. per year. Do you know that we have the Labour and Social Affairs Research Institute? Who among you has ever heard of him, which one of you has read anything from the publications? When I asked what it was for, people moving in the social field wrote me a rather harsh assessment of what it was for. I will read it to you: "The Research Institute of Labour and Social Affairs is just a safe house for people who need to clean up somewhere. There is no need for a similar organ.' And it's 80 miles. per year. I want to ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs what the institution is for, what research it's doing and who's cleaning up these people. 80 million. Social dialogue. Do you know that social dialogue is paid out of the state budget? 38 million a year. I know it's small sums, but it has to be saved from small amounts. So why does the state budget pay social dialogue? Now I'm going to mention a savings which will certainly not please our colleagues on the left. The union authorities control the safety of work. The state has its own authority, it's the central body of the state administration, it's based in Opava, if you didn't know. And yet the state pays the unions that decide to carry out the safety test themselves instead of the state. If it was a private company, do you know what colleagues from the left would say? This is an unacceptable privatisation of the public administration. When the union does it, what is it? I don't know. 40 miles again. Crowns. So these four items, or five, randomly selected, are already doing 360 miles. saving operating expenses only at the Ministry. I'm not talking about the dosage system, I'm getting to that. And that's not enough. And when we look at the expenses - pension expenses are clear, everyone in the House agrees, the number answers, calculated, all right. What is not quite right is that the government has actually resigned to any pension reform. Yes, we have it in the programming statement, the sentence is there, it has to be admitted. But it's the year after the election, and how much is done? I don't know, I heard the secretary, the new secretary, already has a timetable for the procedure. Well, we don't have it, and our experience, you don't have to trust us, is that if you enforce pension reform by a narrow majority, it doesn't last long. We have learned our lesson, and the way for all of us is if we want to do something about pensions, so the majority must be much bigger and the consensus must be much bigger, which means that each of us must be prepared for much greater concessions and not just promote our dream model of the one or which political party. This doesn't go anywhere, it only leads to us making parametric changes, but before the system we close our eyes and drag the problem away and pass it on to other governments, no matter what political composition they are in. I want to remind you, as I mentioned earlier, the problem of women who are over 25 years or over 20 years in retirement who didn't have a chance in the former regime to make good money. But at the same time, there is another problem in the pension system. These are e.g. people who have long cared for their relatives and loved ones, and they have extraordinarily low pensions, because that time doesn't really count on the possibility. We have a problem with the amount of pensions for disabled people who have had disability since childhood. Do you remember that outrageous sentence that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs said here? Those 25 years, is that supposed to apply to disabled pensioners? Do you want to raise them by CZK 1,000 a month? I'm sending a message to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs: yes, even to those of the proposal. [[unintelligible]] These people are handicapped if they have been receiving a disability pension for 20 years, and someone on the left side of the political spectrum will say, "Do you want to increase their pension?" Yes, even those. Look how low those disability pensions are. Now, I'm gradually getting to the dosage systems and social benefits. In our opinion, unfortunately, and I do not know if this can be changed methodically, Madam Secretary, pensions are added to social benefits. And I think we should make a distinction. In our concept of the world, pension is not a social benefit. I don't know if the budget rules are forcing you to do this or not, so I'd like to ask you next time that we have extra pension and welfare expenses, because then it's a fair debate. Retirement isn't a social benefit, it's just something else entirely. Now I really want to focus on social benefits, world flight, at most an hour or two, individual types of social benefits. Child support. We've put up a fight over the last parliamentary term, but if you look at the result, you'll find that the effect that those who supported it didn't actually bring. By increasing the average wage and being the benefit tested for the income of the family, there was no increase in the number of beneficiaries of those benefits. [[17.50 hours]] I've noticed in the past days or weeks, I don't know anymore, I don't know if it scared the Minister of Finance - the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, whose basic verb I've said before, is to raise them, he wants to propose to increase the living and existential minimum. There's no reason for that. There's no reason for that. With record unemployment, there is no reason to increase these benefits. At the same time, minimum wage increases. There I see the biggest problem in the guaranteed wage in those higher groups - five, six, seven, eight. This really creates problems for employers in regions with lower wages, such as Moravian-Silesian. Here, we recommend that we divide the debate on minimum wage and guaranteed wages and lead it really rationally and not ideologically. And there's no reason to raise the living and existential minimum. If we want, and I believe that the majority in the Chamber of Deputies wants to make it worthwhile to work for those who can work, there is no reason. On the other hand, if we strictly assess social benefits, those who really need them can get more than today. They can get more than today if they don't get picked up by those who don't have to and don't. It has to do with the housing allowance and all that. I don't know why there's such distrust of municipalities. We think that the municipality is exactly the entity that should decide who should, for example, receive the housing supplement. The village knows very well whether it is an established organisation that provides quality social services - I could name the Salvation Army, Charity and many others - or is it someone who buys a hotel and creates a hostel there just to deposit money from a housing supplement in inadequate conditions. But that is what the Social Democrats were particularly afraid of, and even though we approved it, so that... I wouldn't use such a strong word, but so to speak, sabotage the former Minister of the Interior and the former Minister of Labour and Social Affairs suddenly out of the obligation to respect the community's position has become a recommendation opinion of the municipality. [[for]] At the same time, the municipalities, for example in Karviná, where the Social Democrats are so successful this year, had a very well-developed system - we did not rule there, we were in opposition - when they were very good at recognizing who the surcharge belonged to and who did not. But that was legally removed. Then something was accepted, which is much less elegant and much less effective, but it is also used - these are the free zones. But it's a worse solution than for communities to approve. But it's better than having nothing. If we're going to do something about it, let's give the mayors, the councils and the municipal authorities our trust. They are able to do real social investigations and carry out social work. Not the labor authorities. They're still judging from the table. At the same time, we're recruiting new and new employees to work offices. Ask them if they know these people, if they know if they're paying fees, if they're sending kids to schools and so on. And then there will be money left for those who really need those benefits and who deserve it. I think we're supposed to go back to the debate about the merger of the housing allowance and the housing supplement, but in any case, test it for revenue. It won't make any sense without it. Parental allowance. It's even in the coalition agreement that it will increase. Very often the government, whichever government, to be fair, wants to support some kind of political move, lets the study process compared to abroad and says: abroad it is so much, we follow these sources... [[A silence for strong noise, especially on the left side of the hall. The President is asking for peace.]] So I would ask the government to do a study, if we do it through the Parliamentary Institute, but so that it is a government study that could compare the length of parental, parental, maternity, maternal contributions, for example, in the countries of the European Union. We have a rather generous parental leave. Although the holiday - I agree with Mr Juchelka, I do not see him here so quickly - but that it is not a holiday, that the phrase used is not happy. We have multiple speeds, which is correct. Parents can take turns, which is also correct, and she's quite generous in terms of finance, which is also correct. But there's no reason to raise it by 80,000 from 220 to 300. That's about 35 percent. I haven't seen any study of why we should do this. Let us compare, let us have an analysis of how it is in the surrounding countries, how it is in the countries of the European Union with the length and amount before we proceed to increase the benefits. One of the benefits in the MPSV budget is foster benefits. And from the way we look at the data, the number of foster parents is actually increasing. We think that the basic task is, if possible, to leave children in families. This should be the basic role of the OSPOD in all municipalities with extended scope. If this is no longer possible for objective reasons, then foster care could take place and then the last is institutional care. But if the number of foster parents increases, it would be fair and reasonable to know if the number of children in institutional care is decreasing. Because logically, it should be. Then it makes sense to support it, because it's better... [[Another silence for the noise. The President is asking for peace.]] Madam Secretary is innocent, I understand. We had 12,500 foster parents in 2006, 12 900 in 2007, 13,000 in 2008 and 14 300 next year. And I'm really wondering if the number of children in institutional care is falling, then it's doing the job. If not, there's something wrong with the system, and we should be dealing with it. It's a sensitive subject. As former mayor, I have to say, it's one of the most sensitive topics you deal with at the office. OSPOD, ladies, because most ladies do it, it's very hard, but we have to take a look at this. Whether that effect, foster support leads to a reduction in the number of children in institutional care or not. The benefits of sickness insurance are expected to grow quite a percentage next year. I don't know why, Secretary of Finance. Why are sickness insurance benefits expected to increase next year? In 2017, the sickness insurance benefits were about 28 billion, that is last year, and 36.2. billion are planned next year. This is an increase of about 20 percent over two years. I don't know what that means. Whether it's just some linear table, a constant that I'm going to increase expenses. Benefits in material distress. Here I will return, given that the benefits in material distress are linked to the minimum of life, to our refusal to raise the minimum of life. Fortunately, there is no problem at present for people like me to find employment in the labour market. In order to find employment on the mother's labour market returning from parental leave, it is a record low unemployment. And whoever can and his condition allows him to do so should work. Ask or read how many job vacancies are available every month and how many jobs are lost not only by the companies, how many jobs are lost, but also by the lost taxes the Czech economy and the Czech state are missing. Then the next contribution is the mobility allowance. The administrative costs could be reduced here. If this were to be paid once a semester, the administrative costs would be reduced. And we need to open a debate on the recognition of special aids, because it is on the verge of health and social. It's the long-term debate where health care ends and social welfare begins. This is certainly not a political issue, but it is a subject that we should be dealing with, and we, as the conservative right, are ready to contribute by looking at the debate. [[18.00 hours]] Unemployment support 7.3 billion for next year. I don't know, Madam Secretary, how the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs convinced you that the number was correct. To me, it seems too high when it comes to the situation on the labour market. And in the long run, I have great doubts about the effectiveness of an item called active unemployment policy. Long-term for ODS governments, to be fair, I have in vain advocated my radical rejection of this item, that I know from practice about the level of various trainings back and forth, money costs and the effect is very low and very difficult to measure. And over the years, they - I don't want to say invested, that's no, that's not the right verb. Over the years, tens of billions of crowns have been spent there, and I think the effect is very questionable. I've got some numbers here. Again 2.5 billion are planned for next year. on active unemployment policy. That was just a few samples from one chapter. But since we have a government torso here, or during the day we had a government torso, we're not actually able to lead. [[discussion]] At this point, I would expect the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to come forward and say: I don't think 300 employees at the MPSV are good, I think we could only release 150 or 100 of them, you're wrong. And he's going to explain to me what the 300 people her predecessor picked up are actually doing there. What do you think we're gonna learn today's answer? We won't. My colleague Martin Baxa asked about a program whose awkwardly low value I know from my practice in municipal politics. Let's not ask about the microphone. Take a look at the budget, how much the state gives to its institutions in the field of culture and how much it gives to the programme and the support of all others. 160 million crowns to support all theatres and symphony orchestras that are not set up by the state! The theatre in Opava has annual costs of approximately 70 million crowns. When you attend a conference on the financing of cultural institutions, all who perform, state, region, village, founder, director of the theatre, call for multi-component, multi-source funding. Yeah, and then the village gives 98 percent and the state one, and we have a program for it, and we call it the promotion of professional theatres and symphony orchestras. I firmly believe that the theatres are not only meant to be public, that they should also be in regions, cities, municipalities and regions. Do we have the Minister of Culture here to tell us what he's gonna do about it? He's experienced, too. He was the mayor, or maybe he's Mayor Olomouc. I don't think he's elected a new one yet, do you? Then he'll still be in office. I think the mayor is until he's elected a new one, but it almost doesn't matter if he's a ten-day mayor or he quit ten days ago. I'm sure he has his cultural contribution organisations, and he'll know for himself how many cultural institutions in Olomouc have gotten out of the state budget of this program. Did we get an answer? We didn't. I'll go back to the overall evaluation. The citizens' democrats could also prepare their own resolutions to be returned to recast, and we do not think that we should compete in opposition parties who will submit it first, so we will support all proposals for recovery and recasting. I would logically let this vote, if I may, by the amount of the budget to be reduced, so that logically we who support it can vote in favour of all the proposals that have been made. The main reason is very simple, and it's not just a deficit to say. No ambition, no priorities, no idea, an instant budget. Such a budget cannot be supported by a reasonable right-wing conservative opposition. You understand that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A point of fact, Mr Ferjenčík. And then with priority rights, Mr Kalousek and Mrs Schillerová. Before I give you my word, Mr. Ambassador, I'll read your apologies. Mrs Markéta Adamová apologises from 17.00 to the end of the working day and Mr Jiří Běhounek from 19.15 to the end of the sitting day. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to poke one thing out of Mr. Stanjura's speech, and I wanted to ask the secretary if she could deal with it. Unfortunately, Mr. Faltýnek... I'm sorry. All I have to ask is that you really try to implement Mr Stanjura's request on this matter to separate pensions and the rest of the social benefits. First of all, it makes the public a terrible mess when there's a state budget on the news every year, and I actually think it makes people hate Rom people because they see 600 billion people there. Social welfare expenditure, and completely unjustifiedly, some people think it's because we're funding someone who doesn't work, and it's really about pensions from the overwhelming majority. And the second problem, which is no longer presentative, is that it is difficult to monitor the development of this indicator, because when the development of the budget gets worse, the economic situation gets worse, spending on social benefits is increasing, but pensions are not valorized so quickly, because average wages don't grow so fast. So, actually, these two trends are going against each other, and by actually two chapters with completely opposite trends, they're in one number, so it's completely clouding the observation of development. Otherwise, I would like to add that a lot of Rom people work. It is a large majority, but unfortunately this prejudice in our society is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u81	Thank you for keeping the point of fact. I would ask the Chamber of Deputies, before I give the floor to Mr Kalousek, that any of you have something substantial that needs to be communicated with your colleagues, to resolve it in the lobby of the Chamber, to give room to the lecturer to say what he needs. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u82	Thank you for the floor, I'll be quite brief. Just two small comments on what was said here by my previous speakers, and two comments on what the Minister said when she commented on our discussion. As far as terms are concerned - social benefits and old-age pensions - that's what the budget says. When you look at the schedule, you can read, this is the total amount of social benefits, and that makes retirement so much and disability pensions so much, we'll just read it. Anyone who wants to read it will read it. If we agree to rename it, it's not out of the question either, but it's probably not exactly accurate to say it's not there, it's there. And it's been there for years. The rapid increase in sickness insurance, which Mr Stanjura here was surprised by, is quite a logical response of the Ministry of Finance's apparatus to the political decision to abolish the time of death. This is a projection of the difference, when there was some savings once, and now there will be an increase in expenditure, given that today, of course, there are wages and the calculation of their sickness otherwise, so it makes about 8 billion. None of us are able to estimate what the disease of the population will be next year. This is estimated about as well as estimated by the undertaker's item. That's what I liked every year when we were supposed to predict how much we'd spend on funerals. There's no way to predict and influence that either. But there's no doubt that the increase is due to the time of the Karen, of course. I merely point out that this is the last reform measure that has lasted out of all the mandatory insurance systems that this government is shutting down, and yet it has not come up with any other. [[18.10 hours]] The final comment on what Mr Stanjura said, and where I would dare not agree with him, was the evaluation court when he said that the budget was a greasy, unbearable, bureaucratic one. I dare say no. I dare say that if the Ministry of Finance's professional apparatus were to draw up a budget without a clear political assignment, it wouldn't be that bad. That the budget would be technical, maybe it would be difficult to look for priorities in it, but it would have a much bigger economic logic than what we have on the table. This isn't a clerk's budget. This is a communist budget. Through the communist budget. From this point of view, the support of KSČM Members to this budget is completely understandable, I understand that. Why shouldn't the communists support the communist budget? Perhaps we could have a little more astonishment with regard to Members YES and ČSSD, but after all, that is their decision. But I'm sure it's not a technical and bland budget. It's a communist budget. About what the Minister said about the number of civil servants. When she asked us here, well, we needed so many teachers, we needed so many police officers, we needed so many and so many - now I don't know what... [[A voice from the diaper: Soldiers.]] Soldiers, thank you. Yeah, well, no one's questioning that either. But please, a nice army of civil servants will have nearly 470,000 next year. And until four years ago, it was roughly 40,000 lower. And I do not question the priorities of the government, which simply respond to the security situation and the situation in education and must increase the number of teachers and must increase the number of police officers. But then somewhere else, he's got to be able to slow down. It's just the government - it's the same thing as when I'm going on a foreign holiday in my family's budget and the wind comes and takes my roof away. I probably won't say at that point, well, I have to borrow because I can't fix my roof. At this point, I'm probably gonna cancel my foreign vacation and fix the roof. You, my dear government, are dealing with all the challenges that come before you exclusively extensively. There's a challenge coming, what's now is a constant, and we're just going to solve the problem with an extensive increase. But that's our first previous speaker who's been talking since 9:00 a.m. since the morning of the 16 minutes, so he'd say, well, that's what a trained foxterier can do. It is simply possible to change priorities, but it is not possible to solve these problems with an extensive increase. [[Restlessness and noise in the Chamber.]] And that's probably all I wanted to say about what the secretary said. 'Cause fighting about specific numbers here and what's or isn't a relevant comparison, at this point, I think it's already inefficient. [[Gonging.]] Let's save that for a more private seminar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u83	Well, thank you, Mr Kalousek. I have Mr Chvojka here with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. [[Gonging.]] Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to propose, on behalf of the two parliamentary clubs, the ANO and the ČSSD movement, that the Chamber of Deputies should act today, and that the Parliament vote on all proposals after 19.00 and after 21.00 and even after 24.00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u85	Thank you. Since it's a procedural proposal, I'll put it to a vote. [[Applications from the diaper for check-out.]] There's a check-out request. Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u86	I'm sorry, I object to the invoicing of this proposal. Vote is a meeting and a vote after 7:00 p.m., after 9:00 p.m. Maybe I'll surprise you, but I'll support it because I think the state budget is supposed to be decided today. But it is not possible to decide on the vote after 24 o'clock, because 24 o'clock is the end of the day. We've been through this a lot. And this is the mouth. We've been through this many times, which is why it's unvoting. There is a voteable proposal that there will be negotiations and a vote after 19th and after 21st hours, not after 24th hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u87	Chairman Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u88	Well, thank you for the helpfulness of my colleague Kalousek. However, I must admit that I consulted the legislation that gave me this and said it was okay. Even my honored colleagues, such as the former President of the Sklenák Club, say that we have already discussed this several times and that they think that I can design it as I suggested. However, if, of course, there is a problem with this, let's make it easier to discuss this point and that I don't want to spend another hour debating what the proposal is right, then after 19 and 21 hours, if I can do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u89	Thank you. I checked you out. We all understand what we're going to vote on. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting order number 50: 182 Members registered, for 122, against 23, abstained 37. The motion was accepted. Now we're going back to the debate on the state budget. Mr Jiří Kobza is duly enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u90	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u91	Please, you have the floor. And I will ask the Chamber of Deputies once again that if you have anything to do with your colleagues, that you deal with it in the lobby and that you give the speakers the room to say what they want to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the government, Madam Secretary, I have one such personal problem with the budget. I received Chapter 306 through the Foreign Committee, which received it at the same time from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, today at 3:30 p.m. So I absolutely didn't have the opportunity to study it in any way, so I can't support a budget that I didn't have the opportunity to process. Two hours of sitting here, and it's just not enough. I'm not an accountant, I may not have such an erudist as my honored predecessors, but I can't support this chapter because I just didn't get a chance to study it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u93	Thank you. The next enrollment is Mrs Richterová. Mrs Richterová is not... [[From the diaper: It is.]] He's here, he's coming, sorry. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u94	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, a few comments on the first reading of the budget under discussion, which will follow up on Mr Stanjura. I would like, I must say, pleasedly, to respond to the importance of social issues in his speech, things that affect hundreds of thousands of people in the finals, because really the country's greatest wealth is just people, that's us. And most of all, we lose if we don't allow the potential of young people with different disadvantages to be used. [[18.20 hours]] Today we are a country that very negatively transmits vicious circles of poverty, disadvantages, bad habits. We're basically very bad at helping kids out of poor, troubled families to break out of this vicious circle. And this hard life start that we're all actually losing, because then they replicate different bad patterns, it's possible to break through. I would like to point out that there are known tools, a number of studies have been done in the past, paths have been trampled a little bit, where to go, but so far they haven't been completely managed to turn them into highways, the ones we build 14 km a year. We have to build this on the social field, too, so that we can live well here in twenty-thirty years. So I have a suggestion that the budget should really focus on keeping the current state of affairs on investment and on the field - I call it social infrastructure. Today, unfortunately, all we can do is give money. But what helps a lot more is to link smart, fast, and financial support to services. And these missing conceptual follow-up services for people in trouble are the main reason why we can't intersect those enchanted circles. Children's homes were mentioned here, institutional care. I'd spread it. Let us look at the fact that the roughly 1,000 children, young people who leave the institutional care or the foster care, need some help every year to begin their lives. And we're giving them a maximum of one financial charge today. There are no fully guaranteed support follow-up services. There are some regions where it works better when it comes to starting apartments and so on. But I want to point out that, as a state, we've been able to invest millions and millions in total for years, but then, in such a critical, fragile period, we're going to let those young people fall to the very bottom of society. And it's common because there's just about 70 percent of people who have just gone through children's homes. This lack of follow-up support for people leaving the facility is also very weak in psychiatric patients, or even in the absence of support, the real one, including any accompanying housing, even in people released from prison, or after serving the sentence, very little in this very expensive and expensive system is put back into the initial integration of people into the labour market, into society. I would like to appeal here that we may start investing in this social infrastructure, for example, by actually negotiating with the municipalities, that they will contribute to the performance of social work in encouraging people to be able to maintain their normal housing, so that, in the future, we will be able to cut back on the housing payments that often go to horrible hostels and really into the business of poverty. But without the initial investment in social work, it won't work. That's the first appeal. The second appeal is, we have a place to start. We know from the figures that we have about 15,000 adults taking care of children under the age of 15 who are on doses in material distress. For the most part, these 15,000 adults are located in the residential hotels or in very inadequate housing. 15,000 people per 10 million inhabitants. It's not that much. We can start at this number, and we can really help cut through it, break down the vicious circles, because quality housing means better schooling, less stress, and equalizing the chances of living. As far as the support for schools is concerned, it is absolutely crucial that, in addition to the only subsidies that we now support for a very effective school lunch program, it becomes a truly universal state policy so that poor children are not dependent on whether their school and their region are involved in the programme, but that this effective, positive instrument is actually widely available. In addition to positive motivation and support for children through lunches to schools, or lunches for schools, as another programme is also called, there is one other thing that has worked in the past. Instead of endless debates, we can see how the contributions to school commuting have worked in the past. This, too, is an opportunity to positively motivate them through re-payments. For example, when visiting secondary schools, it is clear that this is a great reason why the few thousand young people from excluded localities end up bailing on high school. In addition to the contribution to commuting as a possible investment in really profound changes in not falling into another generation of young people's enchanted circle, it is equally possible to talk about teachers' assistants for disadvantaged localities, for disadvantaged pupils. So not only about assistants for children with disabilities, but for those children and for those teachers, I would point out where educators really cannot substitute all the missing social or hygienic dimensions that need to be secured so that children can then manage their normal teaching. This is part of it. [[Very loud noise in the hall.]] And the second social infrastructure part is being accompanied back to work. I completely agree with what has also been said here that our policies called active employment policy are not effective, various retraining courses. No one's assessing whether all those certificates and certificates contribute to anything. But what works in many countries of the world is really motivating intermediaries, and now it will sound ugly, but the agencies have proven themselves elsewhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u95	Madame, I'm going to interrupt you. The noise in the hall is a truly undignified meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. And all of you who go to the microphone, you know how uncomfortable it is to talk to a humming room. So I'm gonna ask you to keep it down. Thank you. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u96	Thank you for calming me down. Indeed, one of the very effective tools to reduce long-term unemployment, and how people who have lost or never acquired work habits, gradually integrate them, is the so-called shared mediation of work or escort back to work, where organizations or individuals are rewarded for how long this person will keep the job, the normal bonuses for having worked for six months, three quarters of a year, the year of the person who has been unemployed in the long term. It's something that works in other countries. And that's exactly what we're desperately missing, because we're transferring all the burden of working with people who don't have work habits to employers. And that can't work. The only ones where it works a little bit are municipal businesses, such as municipal technical services and so on. And yet there is yet another huge problem, namely the administrative difficulty of employing persons in executions. Communication with executioners, for example, during the employment of 32 people burdened mostly with eight to ten executions, for example in the Technical Services in Varnsdorf, means a full-time full-time labor force for a year to communicate with the executioners only through the data box. So instead of dealing with some new and new certificates and unevaluated, often very ineffective retraining courses, let's focus on state policy and the state budget on how we allocate our money, on these systemic changes that we are fundamentally lacking, and in the end let's really focus on making it the greatest wealth of our country, which is people, everyone is saying how people are missing at work today, so that we actually give a chance to those with all sorts of disadvantages and to our employers, so that they can really keep these people busy, so that they are not all airlocks. [[18.30 hours]] I'm going back to those children from a disadvantaged environment again. If we are unable to provide effective support to children leaving the institution and foster care, and if we are not able to finance primary care in this proposed budget, working with families who are going to be in crisis, and bailing out the crises quickly, even by changing the targeting of extra immediate aid benefits as an instrument that we have in place, or by increasing the community's contribution, so that they can really work socially with families that will help them live in normal housing, if we do not make such changes in systemic nature, I do not want to live to see what awaits us here in 20, 30 years in some of our country's localities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u97	Thank you. Since I do not register any factual remarks or proper applications for the debate, I do not see any preferential rights, I end in general... A real point, please, Mr Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u98	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for your patience. I'll be very brief. What Mrs Richterová has described is certainly very good, essential things that will certainly contribute to the improvement of life in our society. I would just like to point out that we have a whole range of things that she has described here in the Czech Republic. And very often even far more efficient than the state perform various organizations, e.g. Dakonie or Charity of the Czech Republic. And what my colleague Vít Kaňkovský said about strengthening this chapter on social services, that is exactly what this is about. Our charity in the Uherské Brod is far from doing just field services and does not serve, say, depéesky etc., but provides advice for example. He takes care of mothers in need, etc., etc. He provides hospice care. So these are the things that have been said here and have a connection with what Vít Kaňkovský has been lecturing here. So I hope that we will support his proposal so that even these services, which are definitely worthy and good, can develop.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u99	Thank you for keeping time. Another factual point, Mr Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u100	Thank you for the floor. I apologize for this factual remark, but on Facebook ČT 24, it says that the budget has already been passed, so I wanted to ask if I missed anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u101	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I do not register any factual remarks or proper applications for the debate. Neither do priority rights. I am ending the general debate. I'll ask the Secretary of Finance for the final word. No need. The rapporteur's final word? No need. I will ask the rapporteur to guide us through procedural and other proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u102	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the introduction to the fact that 21 colleagues and some others have taken part in the factual comments. And 27 colleagues participated in the debate and this resulted in the proposals we have to vote on. These are the three proposals that propose to return to the government the bill on the State Budget for recasting. Since each of these proposals has different recommendations, we will vote on all three proposals, as there has already been a request. This means that we're going to start with where this recast is going to decrease the deficit by 40 billion, then it's going to be 23 and then it's going to be the third, which is without an amount and it's in the general plane. Finally, if neither of these proposals goes through, we would vote on the resolution of the Committee on Budgets. That's the procedure I suggest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u103	Is the general consent to this procedure? I'll put it to a vote. Initiating vote on procedure. All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 51, 183 Members signed in for 183. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u104	Thank you. Let me remind you of the proposal we're going to vote on. The first proposal to be dealt with is the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kalousek: "The Chamber of Deputies returns the draft law on the state budget to the Government of the Czech Republic with the following recommendation. 1. Keep the revenue in the amount proposed. 2. Expenditure cut by 40 billion. Crowns. 3. Balanced balance. 4. The ratio of investment expenditure to total expenditure increased from the proposed 8,1% at least to reach the ratio of the last year of the economic crisis 2012, i.e. 9,2 %. That means a proposed amount of 122 billion. CZK of investment expenditure increased to at least 150 billion. koruna." The date of that revision of 20 days, which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, § 102.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u105	Thank you. We all understand what we're going to vote on. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 52, 183 Members registered, for 52, against 99, 32 abstained. This proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u106	We will take the vote on the second proposal made by Mr Ferjenčík. And it reads: "The Chamber of Deputies returns to the Government of the Czech Republic a draft law on the state budget and recommends the government to make the following changes in the basic data of the draft law on the state budget. A. Keep revenue at the current level. B. Expenditure cut by 23.7 billion. Crowns. C. Maintain existing levels of capital expenditure in absolute figures. D. Maintain existing planned levels of increase in the funding for education. E. Maintain existing planned levels of increasing funds for transport infrastructure. F. Maintain existing planned levels of wage increases for low-income employees.' And a deadline of 20 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u107	Thank you. I will vote on this motion in vote number 53. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 53, 184 Members registered, for 84, against 99, abstained from 1. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u108	Thank you. And we have here a third motion for a refund of the State Budget Bill from the SPD workshop, President Tomio Okamura. That is: "The Chamber of Deputies returns the draft law on the state budget to the Government of the Czech Republic with the following recommendation, and that is 1. Build a balanced budget, or at least reduce the deficit. 2. Do not increase government expenditure, i.e. not to increase the number of civil servants and the cost of the activities of the state authorities. 3. Do not increase the number of state authorities." Date again 20 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u109	I will put the motion for a resolution to a vote. Initiating vote number 54. All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 54, 184 Members registered, for 82, against 99, abstained from 3. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u110	Now all we have to do is vote on the draft resolution of the Committee on Budgets. And I, if there were no objections, would no longer read this press, because, firstly, I have already done so in the debate, and secondly, you all have it in writing. So if there's no objection, I'll just refer to the reading I made here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-007-001.u111	Thank you. Initiating vote number 55. All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 55, 184 Members registered, for 101, versus 83. The motion was accepted. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the middle and left of the hall.]] I hereby state that we have discussed the item of the Government Bill on the State Budget at first reading. Before we proceed to the next item, I will read Pavel Jelínek's apology from today's meeting from 18.50 to the end of the day for working reasons. At this point, we're going to start a point.
