ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u1	115. Discussion of the consequences of commitments and migration risks resulting from the signing of the Marrakesh Protocol by the Minister of Interior of the Government of the Czech Republic This item was particularly classified on the basis of Tuesday's vote by the Chamber of Deputies. I ask that the representatives of the plaintiffs of this item be taken over by Mr Radek Rozvoral, who, if he agrees, will also become his rapporteur. Do you agree, Mr. Ambassador? [[Yes.]] So you'll also be the draftsman and the rapporteur. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, esteemed colleagues, esteemed members of the government. I would also ask for a half-hour break for the SPD, given that Minister Metnar is not here. [[Ask the President off the microphone.]] I asked for a half-hour recess for the SPD club to be attended by Minister Metnar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u3	Okay, I will comply with your request, and I am declaring a break by 10.14 for the reason that the Minister of the Interior of Metnar will appear. [[Attention from the O.R. off the mic.]] I'm sorry, I didn't hear the noise in the room. The application was about half an hour, which means we'll start at 9.45. I'll meet you at 9:45. I'm sorry, there was a noise. So half an hour until 9:45, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u4	If you don't mind, we'd like to take another 15 minutes, too, so in 10 hours, if we can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u5	Okay, another request from the ČSSD, so we'll take a break in 10 hours, or another 15 minutes. So I'll meet you at the Chamber of Deputies at 10:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u6	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, it is 10 o'clock, which means we can continue to discuss the interrupted point. I have here a remark from the management meeting that it was interrupted before Mr Rozvoral's speech, which means that he should now be given the floor of a Member who has also agreed to play the role of rapporteur. So please, Member and rapporteur, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Members of Parliament, honourable Members of the Government, in the first week of May, in the Moroccan city of Marrakesh, a ministerial conference on migration and development, which is referred to as the Rabat Process, took place. As we know, the Czech Republic was represented by the Minister of Interior in the resignation of Lubomír Metnar. The outcome of the negotiations was a document referred to as the Marrakesh Political Declaration, containing an action plan for the years 2018 to 2020. It also includes strengthening the global compact on migration, where illegal migration is replaced by legal migration. The Contracting Parties should commit themselves to removing obstacles to migration, including to economic migrants. This process should be under the control of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and provided by non-governmental non-profit organisations dealing with migration. The European Parliament has dedicated a global compact for managed, secure and legal migration, a project in which national states give up their right to decide who settles in their territory, with a resolution entitled "The Protocol on the UN Global Pact Initiative on Safe, Controlled and Legal Migration and Refugees." In this resolution, entitled the Global Pact on Safe, Controlled and Legal Migration, paragraph 26, points out that the UN Secretary-General's report on How to Make Migration Beneficial to All, stresses that there is clear evidence that, despite real problems, migration is beneficial for both migrants and host communities, in an economic and social sense, and can stimulate economic growth and innovation, it strongly supports the duration of positively tuned arguments on migration and encourages the European Union and international information campaigns to draw attention to this evidence and to combat racist and xenophobic tendencies in our societies. The states themselves will not be able to decide on migrants themselves, but the United Nations, together with the international migration organisation, will impose on us migrants and subsequently enforce the migration process through various instruments such as the rule of law in the framework of the distribution of funds from European funds. All with the support of nonprofits. The resolution adopted talks about the positive effect of migration that needs to be supported. But experience speaks that each coin has two sides. So let us look at attitudes to current migration. Hungary has taken a negative position. Given that it has remained alone in its positions, it refers to some of the positions of the European Union's representatives. Hungarian Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó quoted the words of the Commissioner for Migration, Internal Affairs and Citizenship Dimitris Avramopoulos, that migration needs to be supported because the population is growing in Africa and is declining in Europe. Minister Szijjártó rejects this claim and adds that the Hungarian Government wants to address demographic challenges by supporting families and modernising vocational education and education. This argument seems rational, our SPD movement has it in its programme and we will continue to pursue it with the utmost effort. What is worse, however, by slow, quiet steps, small changes and cosmetic adjustments are created, which differ substantially from the original version at a distance of time. The original concept of stopping migrants from Africa to Europe through effective use of the European Union's financial support has changed so that today the EU sees the engine of economic growth in migration and the basis of the global prosperity of the European Union, which must be fundamentally rejected. What Africa needs is economic growth. This requires economically active people, especially young people. But young people represent the largest group of migrants. By leaving, they weaken their country's economic potential. The question is whether it is not speculation by migrants, with jobs being expected from them at home, in Europe they are provided with social benefits, even without work. The SPD movement strictly condemns the proposals of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees on the global compact of migration control to Europe using non-governmental non-profit organisations, which is part of the Marrakech political declaration. We share Maďarsko's positions on the issue of addressing migration. We reject the EU dictatorship, which legalizes illegal migration for economic migrants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u8	Thank you and I am opening the debate. I ask Vice-President Okamura with priority rights, if the Minister wishes to speak with priority rights, then after him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for voting in favour of our proposal to include an extraordinary item on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies meeting entitled The discussion of the consequences of commitments and migration risks arising from the Marrakesh Protocol, which was discussed by the Minister of the Interior of the Czech Republic, Lubomír Metnar. At the outset, I would like to propose, on behalf of the SPD, the text of a unanimous clear resolution on which we will vote, as follows: Migration and asylum policy of the Czech Republic must remain in full decision-making capacity of the Czech Republic. In addition to the resolution, I am asking the Government to take a disagreeable position in relation to the Marrakech Declaration, as Hungary did in its negotiations in Morocco. So basically, we're looking at this one-toned resolution. It is not complicated, I think it is quite clear, and I could basically end my speech here, because if the Chamber of Deputies adopts the above, by us proposed simple resolution, we no longer need to convince each other who is or is wrong about the content of the Marrakech Declaration. And there is no longer a need for the Interior Minister Lubomír Metnar or Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to defend their actions here, because we will clearly commit them to further action by resolution. However, I would rather now explain in more detail the reasons for our proposal. To begin with, let me briefly quote three short passages from this declaration, not even three whole sentences. For example, the statement states that the aim is - I quote - to facilitate legal, safe, regular and responsible migration and mobility of people, including through the implementation of planned and well-managed migration strategies. Or there is another sentence that the partners of the Rabat Process, and I will now shorten it, support the principles of non-return and agree that they prefer voluntary return. Or there is a third, it is the name of Objective 4, to promote the facilitation of the procedures applied to issuing visas to migrants. So these are the sentences that are going on here, and I think that it is really unacceptable for us, as for the SPD, to cut down the so-called salami method from the sovereignty of the Czech Republic and to gradually transfer powers in asylum and migration policy to a transnational level outside our control. [[10.10 hours]] Minister of Interior of the Czech Republic Lubomír Metnar did not, on behalf of the government in Morocco, distinguish himself against the content of the protocol dealing with the issue of migration from African countries to European countries. Against this protocol, the Minister of the Interior of Hungary, who called it extremely pro-migration, was defined at the meeting. This is fundamentally a different assessment of the situation than we hear from Minister Metnar and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. I have seen that protocol and I must say that the evaluation of the representative of Hungary is absolutely appropriate. The objection that this position of the Government of the Czech Republic does not oblige us to do anything is childish. It is necessary here at the House to ask on what basis the Minister's mandate was that he did not oppose this declaration. Neither the Government nor the Minister discussed this step in the committees. Here I have written evidence that before the Minister went to Marrakesh, it was simply not discussed either on the European Committee or on the Foreign Committee. It is confirmed here by Mrs Blanka Koubová from the Secretariat of the Committee on European Affairs and also by Mrs Michaela Bandi from the Foreign Committee that this was not discussed there. That is, before the Minister took his stand on Marrakech by not defining himself as the Maďar did. So the Minister's government in demise here acted arbitraryly, without the authority of the institutions, or at least one body of the Chamber of Deputies, even though it was clear from the outset that such a serious matter here in this House would arouse disapproval. If, therefore, it is not even worth discussing such a serious matter in advance in the House Committees, then it is necessary to ask the government in resignation whether this House still has the right to know and decide on fundamental matters concerning migration and security of the Czech Republic. I'm sure you will. But the government or the Home Secretary clearly sees it the other way around. Let us put it plainly that this protocol is a factual legalization of migration from African countries and rejects the forced deportation of immigrants back. In fact, it is heading towards granting the right to migration as part of human rights. The Protocol calls for the abolition of sanctions for illegal entry into the country and transfers migration management to transnational levels. This is fatally dangerous for our country. As we know, the basic revision of the Dublin Protocol, i.e. the amendment of asylum rules, is also approaching, and if we allow the transfer of migration competences to a transnational level, we are in fact in agreement with the liquidation of our statehood and nation. And the sequence of these steps isn't random. We reject the excuses that the Minister's consent or his position, the fact that he did not express himself, was noncommittal. Well, a noncommittal document, which means from my point of view it is not necessary to agree with it, nor in any way to evaluate such an act, and if you do not agree with migration, then it is necessary to define yourself as Maďar did, right?, and it would be simple. From this point of view, the fact that the Minister, in turn, did not define the government against the Marrakesh Declaration, so from our point of view it is a factual and real betrayal of the interests of the nation. This country does not belong to European Union officials or multinational non-profit organizations. He is the legacy of our nation and only he has the right to decide, or his representatives, who will live in it. However, the level of what the Marrakesh Declaration and migration and the Dublin Protocol at all would really be a question of a national referendum, and we strongly support and promote citizens to decide on such a matter. I would like to urge the Government to act in the interests of the Constitution and its promise. The government is simply not supposed to express opinions on any major international commitments or declarations, because it simply has no mandate from the House to do so. If it is in remission, then it is necessary to discuss it at least in committee and to secure an opinion, especially on such a serious matter, or it simply does not have to be an opinion. Silence is consent, and the Minister has not been emancipated. Well, that's obviously a problem. It needs to be defined as Hungary, if that's what it's supposed to be. And so if the YES movement is applying for the reception of migrants, it is his choice and his political agenda, but therefore the movement should inform the voters, and that is not what happened. And it's a legitimate program. Well, that's what the parties here are promoting, but they introduced the voters to it in advance, and the voter sort of evaluated it in the election a few months ago. We know that the immigration party has always typically been top 09 or KDU-ČSL or ČSSD etc. I would reiterate, therefore, that it is not possible for a government to decide on such serious matters without the House's mandate or to present an opinion there, either one or the other. Nor is it possible that the government also calms people by empty statements that they are against migration, when the opposite is actually done there and against such essential declarations is not defined at international level. Again, I say that it really is not possible and it is not acceptable for us in the SPD, so that a representative of a government that does not have confidence does not come up against such a document in which the Czech Republic de facto claims to support migration systemically in some passages. Representatives of the government tried to present the declaration from Marrakesh as a declaration of prevention and fight against illegal migration, smuggling migrants, trafficking in human beings, but, as I have already noted, the declaration is different in certain passages. It follows from the documents that, as the Czech Republic, for the government's sake, we have officially applied for this because we have not defined ourselves, as Hungary has done, that we want to replace illegal mass migration by legalising this migration and simplifying it for migrants. And that is absolutely unacceptable for us in the SPD. The Declaration calls for the maximization of the benefits of regular migration for development, including those for diaspor members. The authors of the declaration and the ideas of promoting migration, among other things, are wondering how to make migration even more attractive to Afričan and arab. They want to facilitate the process of transferring funds that migrants send to their countries of origin, which in practice means encouraging families to send their representatives to Europe for European benefits and subsequently exporting this money to Africa and Arabia, where they will serve well, for example, to promote the spread of terrorism and radical Islam. Declarations shall report to the positive potential of legal migration and shall focus most of their activities on maximizing the benefits of regular migration for development, including the contribution to the members of the diaspora; Or diaspor, the document undoubtedly means it, at least it shows us, the Muslim no-go zones and the migrating ghetto. And now, let me plant the Marrakesh Declaration, and that's what this is about, that's the important moment of this point, why we proposed this as the SPD movement to open this point here, so let me put the Marrakesh Declaration in the current broader context. That's important, and we all have to have information here, and we have to be careful, because it's just the so-called thing. the salami method, which is why we draw attention to this, and when even a brief passage is somewhere that promotes the legalisation of migration, and thus a breach of security and social reconciliation in the Czech Republic, we simply point out this because, at the same time - and we all know that here in the House, because we have already discussed this in January, and we have taken a negative position on this, as the SPD, we have also basically opened this point and pushed through here at a meeting in cooperation with some other Members - so there is also going to be a revision of the asylum rules in the European Union, the so-called 'SPD'. Dublin IV. This is a regulation of the European Union, which will therefore need to be implemented without change into the Czech legal system, and I will just remind you that Dublin IV means the mandatory redistribution of African, Islamic and other migrants to the countries of the European Union, including the Czech Republic, and this is a really crazy proposal and it is necessary that we reject it completely in the Czech Republic at the price of a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union. The future of the Czech Republic is at stake as a safe state without social unrest. But the context is even wider. In addition, the previous government of the ANO, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL movement signed the so-called May 2, 2016 in the last parliamentary term. The Instanbulan Convention. This Convention introduces ideological myths and efforts of neomarxists into the rule of law. It's about genderism, trying to control the functioning of the family. The family is subject to the control of non-profit organizations to fill and control neo-Marxist postulates. [[10.20 hours]] The unilateral absolvation of some myths about men's violence or the absolvation of children's rights over parents is a factual attempt to break up the family and its natural order. It's a tricky attack on family and Christian values. It opens up a path of insinuation, destruction of families, ideological censorship of education and child withdrawal. It's a path to neomarxist totalitarianism. The only effective way to reject the Istanbul Convention is to reject it during ratification, namely to reject it in Parliament or by refusing to sign it by the President. That must be done. And the next, fourth, upcoming document, which will be discussed here sooner or later, is a global compact on migration and everything comes at the same time. The organisation of migration should therefore, from the hands of the state authorities, go to the High Commissioner for Refugees and non-governmental non-profit organisations to a high degree. The Czech Republic is at great risk because the European Commission is about to sign the compact on behalf of the European Union as an act of the so-called common foreign and security policy of the European Union. This should become binding on the Member States of the European Union, although, for example, the Czech Republic would disagree, and its failure to comply could be subject to sanctions granted by the European Court of Justice. Disagree with this document on a level - and here again the Czech Republic has failed, I want to say, and I will say immediately how, and the government is really demonstrating an incredible foreign policy from our point of view, because the opposition to this document, the global compact on migration, at the level of the Permanent Representatives Committee, which is an institution within the framework of the European Union's common foreign policy, has already been declared by Poland and Hungary, but the Czech Republic has not. And I'm asking why. I'm asking the Minister why. So Hungary and Poland are declaring opposition to the upcoming global migration compact and the Czech Republic are not. But at the same time, I will answer. It is because the Czech government is actually pro-migration, and here in the Czech Republic it claims something other than what it actually does out there. And that has to end. Really, the European Commission is threatening to circumvent the opinion of Poland and Hungary because, in the Council of the European Union, which is essentially foreign ministers, the vote is unanimous, and therefore the European Commission declares the signing of the compact as an act, for example, within the customs union, where votes are majority. The similar method was used in the negotiations on CETA and TTIP contracts. It is therefore necessary for the Czech Republic, Minister, to immediately join alongside Hungary and Poland and vote against this document in all the institutions of the European Union, while at the same time coordinating the procedure and voting with other countries in particular of Central Europe, which refuse to support the text. So I can already see how in the next performance you're going to say how Okamura is wrong, the SPD is wrong. It's not like that. Then Hungary and Poland wouldn't be right either, so that's just not how it is. It's just not like that. Moreover, with Hungary, as we know, the Hungarian Foreign Minister has already gone there with an opinion from the Hungarian Parliament. And that's the right move. He consulted, had an opinion and expressed dissent. Here it is the other way around and it really is not good for such serious problems as migration. It follows from the above that it is necessary to monitor all these proposals very carefully here in the Chamber of Deputies and to address these proposals very carefully and, above all, strongly reject them. I will reiterate the motion for our resolution: Migration asylum policy of the Czech Republic must remain in full decision-making capacity of the Czech Republic. We absolutely have to insist on that. To sum up, it is like the Marrakesh political declaration, it is Dublin IV, the Istanbul Treaty and the global compact on migration. This is, of course, why we have opened the point, because there have already been four things here, where it is an attempt to pass these essential competences on to European level. By the way, I'd like to add another fifth thing. And the fifth thing is that Czech MEPs have once again voted for migration for YES and ČSSD. The European Parliament, as we know or perhaps you do not know, has newly supported the proposal of the European Commissioner for Migration Dimitris Avramopoulos to sign UN conventions to fully open borders for migrants and refugees. Both texts are to be finished by the end of July of this year. In order to sign, the Treaties are to be submitted to the UN Member States at the UN General Assembly in September 2018. Another huge problem is that the European Commission has long sought to make the whole of the European Union a Contracting Party, and the European Parliament has supported it in this intention. The leadership of the European Union would thus sign the treaties against the will of the Czech Republic and we would have to submit. All MEPs elected for the government movement YES, namely Pavel Telička, Petr Ježek, Dita Charanzová and Martina Dlabajová, voted for this literally treasonous proposal. And here, unfortunately, we can clearly see that the government, headed by Andrej Babiš, is telling us something completely different about migration in the Czech Republic than what their MEPs do in the European Parliament and how they vote. MEPs are completely servile to the dictation of the European Union and vote against the interests of the Czech Republic. However, MEPs for the YES movement were not alone in this. Similarly, MEPs voted in favour of the proposal for ČSSD, TOP 09 and STAN, namely Luděk Niedermayer, Stanislav Polčák, Jiří Pospíšil, Jaromír Štětina and Miroslav Poche, whom ČSSD proposes to serve as Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic in Babišův's government. Two other MPs for the ČSSD, Pavel Poc and Olga Sehnalová, could not decide on this matter, so they abstained. Several other MEPs were not present in the European Parliament at all on this day, when such important things were involved, which could have a major impact on the fate of the Czech nation, the state and its citizens. By the way, with regard to this recent vote in the European Parliament on these UN conventions, which are to completely open the borders of states for migrants and refugees, the negotiations on both conventions have already been withdrawn by the US at the direction of US President Donald Trump. The US President has declared that the US will not sign these documents because they are contrary to their national security interests. But the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Czech MEPs are scandalously promoting the opposite. If there's any more discussion, I have a detailed analysis of about ten pages here, which is for another half hour, but I'll wait to see what the position will be. I would reiterate that we do not want to have a confrontational debate here, Minister. We have proposed, I think, a fairly clear resolution that does not even name the government or name you, we simply want a sentence to fall here and, if possible, it was agreed in the House that the migration asylum policy of the Czech Republic must remain fully in the decision-making competence of the Czech Republic. There's really no point. I'm just saying here again, what line is there, and what line is there anyway. I know there are different sentences, I've seen the declaration. Some people can see it as being anti-immigration, some kind of immigration. The immigration sentences are just there, that's just it. I think that we can end this point very quickly if we were to vote for this unanimous resolution, and we will all, at least we in the SPD, be sure that the government really means that migration asylum policy must remain fully in the decision-making competence of the Czech Republic. If we do not vote in favour of this, it means the opposite meaning that we agree that it does not have to remain in the decision-making competence of the Czech Republic, which I think is a rather problematic signal. Thank you very much and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u10	I will ask the Minister to wait because there are two factual points - Mrs Langšádlová and then Mr Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u11	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr Vice-President, through the Vice-President, I do not know whether to say that you are such a great demagogist or have such deep ignorance. You know that since the signing of the Amsterdam Treaty, that is, since 1997, there has been a common migration and asylum policy, virtually. shared. I just want to point out that this resolution, which, as you say, is as simple as that, is completely contrary to the treaties that we have already agreed to when we joined the European Union. What seems so simple to you is somewhat more complicated, and you either don't know it, and then you have fundamental ignorance, or you know it well, and then, I apologise through the President, you are simply a demagogist. Maybe both. It is a fact that we need to deal with a lot of things in the area of migration together, and it is also a fact that, thanks to common practice, migration has now almost gone to zero compared to what was in the Mediterranean and the East around 2016. Look at the numbers, and what it's made of. This is thanks to our common European policy. [[10.30 hours]] Do you really think that individual states can handle this? You really don't know the obligations under the Amsterdam Treaty? You do not see that the resolution that you have made here with interpretation, that it is no problem, is contrary to the Amsterdam Treaty and that it is a treaty that was already in force at our entry? How is this possible? Yes, European policy must be common. We are to actively contribute to it and must also be in common in this area. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u12	Yes, thank you. Now please Mr Kaňkovský, then Mr Volný and then Vice-President Okamura, all factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u13	Good morning. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, I would briefly respond to the speech of Vice-President Tomio Okamura through the President. I certainly do not criticize the KDU-ČSL's inclusion of the Marrakesh Protocol item today. But the way he took his performance, he unfortunately committed some inaccuracies there, and I allow myself to comment on one of these inaccuracies. The Vice-President here said that when discussing the Istanbul Treaty in the government... or that the government approved the Istanbul Treaty in the last parliamentary term, he forgot to add that the ministers elected for the KDU-ČSL did not support the Istanbul Treaty in the government. I think these things need to be said, because then we get to the level of inaccuracies, and I don't think it belongs here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u14	Now, please, Mr. Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u15	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I would just like to ask my colleague, Mrs Langšádlová, through Mr President, for a brief consultation with the President of the Committee on European Affairs, an honourable colleague, Mr Benešík, who has repeatedly explained to us today that legal immigration is only and only in national states. It sounded repeatedly today at the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs. And what we're trying to do is make sure illegal immigration isn't solved by legalizing it. So it's just like our chairman said. We want it to be obvious, clear and clear that this will never be decided in the future by anyone other than the Czech Republic. Second thing. Once again, through Mr President, Mrs Langšádlová, I would like to reiterate my view that the European Union and its policy are not responsible for the fact that we are not facing hordes of illegal immigrants in Europe at present, but only the decisive steps of the Hungarian Government and Prime Minister Orbán, who have saved Europe by building a fence at their borders because they have respected their obligations towards the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u16	Now Vice-President Okamura has the floor with a point of fact, followed by President Kalousek and then President Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u17	Well, I would normally not respond to Mrs Langšádlová, but I must, because it is really funny that Mrs Langšádlová, who is supposedly a member of the European Committee, was not there today. I just asked you that. And here he is sage about the opinions. So either Mrs Langšádlová is to attend and listen to it there, or she is not, and then she says something here, so I do not know where she was when we interrupted the Chamber of Deputies and waited for the result. So, by the way, let's just say how it really is. But if I go back to the post, because I think we're gonna go over and over again, I don't know if we've heard the motion for my resolution. The motion for a resolution proposed by the SPD - the migration and asylum policy of the Czech Republic would remain fully in the decision-making capacity of the Czech Republic - does not preclude what Mrs Langšádlová said. If the Czech Republic wants to deal with things at international level and in cooperation, yes, why not, it is nothing against nothing. But if we don't want to, we'll keep it in our jurisdiction. So I don't know if we're even listening to what we're suggesting here. This motion for our resolution allows all variants, only that it will be decided by the Czech Republic. So we acknowledge that cooperation is needed, but so that it is always beneficial for the Czech Republic. So it's nothing against anything. We do not say a solitaire approach, we say that it should remain in the decision-making power of the Czech Republic. Nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u18	Thank you. Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u19	Thank you. In a normal situation, I'd ask for a gentleman's tone with a lady, but that's one that can only be invoked by a gentleman, so I'm gonna pass and I'm not gonna do it. I just want to support Mrs Langšádlová's position. Indeed, in 1997, as the Czech Republic, we acceded to the Amsterdam Treaty, so if we wanted to make the simple resolution proposed by Vice-President Rozvoral, we can, of course, but we also have to say that we want to withdraw from the Amsterdam Treaty. It is probably the same as if we proposed a resolution that, in the area of indirect taxes, i.e. excise duty and VAT, the Czech Republic will decide on these rates in a completely sovereign way. Yes, we can adopt such a resolution, but we also have to say that we want to leave the European Union because the Sixth European Union Directive on indirect taxes does not allow such a thing, and when we joined the European Union in 2004, we knew that. It's just that international law weighs more than national law, that's what it is. This means international law must also have a higher weight than the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies and there is no other way to implement the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies than the commitment of international law to withdraw. And I really don't recommend that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u20	And the last point of fact is that Mr Benešík is registered. Seriously.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u21	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. We have discussed this matter on the committee today, and then I will read in a detailed debate the resolutions that we have mostly adopted. I just wanted to say that what Vice-President Okamura says to keep those competences in the competence of the Member States is breaking into the open door, because that is just the way it is. The Committee has supported this today, and it is far from what the SPD wants, Tomio Okamura, but it is the general consensus of all parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies. So there's no dispute at all, everyone voted for it. I understand that, of course, he wants to have some kind of exclusivity and to tell the citizens of the Czech Republic that he is the only one who is fighting for them. It is a long-term matter, a long-term position of the Czech Republic no matter what kind of party they were in the government. It is just that this government and the previous government are holding this line, and we have also adopted this in our resolution, which I will record, and I believe that at least part of it, if possible, will become a resolution of the entire Chamber of Deputies. Well, as far as the Istanbul Convention is concerned, that's a completely different story. Motat two things together some can, some can't. I just repeat that the KDU-ČSL voted against the adoption of the Istanbul Convention in the Government and will vote again against this Convention and the House plenary for reasons that I, too, have said on several occasions about this microphone. This is only for clarification and clarification, which is sometimes very necessary after some comments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u22	Thank you. I have no further factual point. In that case, the Minister shall be given the floor, who shall report with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning. First of all, accept my apologies for not being here from the outset, as set out in the due date, but I was at the hearing of the Committee on European Affairs. Furthermore, I am pleased to comment on the ministerial conference of the Rabat Process that I took part in. But let me start by stressing that I refuse mandatory quotas! I refuse illegal migration! And what I'm saying is that illegal migration is to be dealt with in source countries. Where it comes from. In this context, I would like to point out that I clearly and categorically reject the unprecedented misrepresentation of facts and conclusions from this conference and the intimidation of citizens of the Czech Republic! [[10.40 hours]] I'm going back to the conference. The conference on May 2 took place in Marrakech, Morocco. This is a Euro-Africa dialogue on migration and development. This dialogue is known as the Rabat Process. It is the main intergovernmental dialogue on migration between the countries of the European Union and the countries of Western, Central and North Africa and was already the fifth meeting. It arose in response to France and Spain's demand for increased illegal migration in 2006. I attended the conference mainly because 85 percent of illegal migrants came to Europe in spite of this part of Africa last year and the matter has to be dealt with urgently. The Conference adopted a political declaration and an action plan for cooperation for the following period. This is not a legally binding international agreement or memorandum. Documents are therefore not physically signed. And once again, I want to point out that they are legally non-binding, and for some, as they have recently appeared on the sign to sign the protocol - really no protocol, no declaration has been signed by me. It is de facto the conclusions of the debate of six dozen sovereign European and African states. The adoption of similar types of documents is consistent with the practice of intergovernmental negotiations of this type in other areas. There are therefore no new obligations or obligations for the Czech Republic. We will not have to change legislation or existing practice in any way. The debate and its conclusions did not address the legalization of illegal migration, nor the promotion of mass migration from Africa to Europe, nor any right to immigration. The reference in this document to legal migration and mobility is therefore merely a confirmation of the possibility of cooperation in this area, not obligations. From the text to legal migration, it merely follows the texts of the Declaration on this topic from the past. In this context, it has been shown that some have fallen to better media with an inaccurate translation of the declaration, where the concept of legal migration has been completely mistranslated as regular or mass migration. The complete declaration and its precise wording in the Czech language is available on the website of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u24	I'm very sorry, Minister, but I'm asking the House for peace... [[Loud call at the right side of the hall.]] In particular, the chairman of an important committee, I ask for peace. Mr. Colleague... [[Calm down.]] There. Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u25	Thank you, Mr President. The way and process of adopting legal migrants continues to be subject to the exclusive and sovereign decision of the Czech Republic, where the person must comply with all necessary requirements in accordance with the Act on the residence of foreigners. This is the Treaty of Lisbon. Thus, only the Czech Republic and the institutions of the Czech Republic matter when and who we accept to the Czech Republic. And I want to support this principle even more with a new legislation. I submitted the relevant amendment to the Alien Residence Act to the Government in February and this House will also have it on the table in the order of weeks. My participation and active involvement of the Czech Republic in this region was based on a long-term promoted Czech position based on a number of approved framework positions and mandates, e.g. the framework position in the European migration agenda and the Commission communication on the internal and external dimension of migration approved by the European Committee on 15 February this year. These positions are regularly discussed not only by the Government but also by the relevant committees of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. also by the Committee on European Affairs. At all these levels, there has always been a general consensus that there is a need to place emphasis on preventing illegal migration outside the European Union. However, this cannot be achieved without negotiations with third countries and the promotion of our main priorities, which are clear and stable for the Czech Republic - the fight against illegal migration, smuggling networks, the stabilisation of migrants as close as possible to their home country, strengthening border control or improving cooperation on return. It was with the defense of these positions that I went to a ministerial conference in Marrakech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u26	Thank you, Minister. I'm gonna read the apologies right now. Mrs Kozlová apologises between 12.30 and 19.00 for the hearing, Mr Schiller 12.15 to 19.00 for working reasons, Mr Okleštěk 24 and 25, i.e. all day for working reasons, Mr Klaus on Friday 25th, working reasons, Mrs Ožanová from 13.30, meeting of the NBU Audit Committee. And that's probably all the apologies that have arrived so far. Now, please, proper applications. Mr. Kopřiva.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for starters, I would like to express a little regret that we have rejected a point on the novice here, our President's remarks. I think that his statements really mean more danger to the citizens of the Czech Republic and more danger than joining the non-binding Marrakech declaration and the action plan. On the other hand, I would like to call this evening's meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, where, apart from some exceptions, we have acted constructively and we have come to a good consensus resolution. The only thing I'd like to mention. We discussed a lot on the committee, actually for an hour and a half, apart from certain emotional outbursts - the fact that citizens are actually being bombarded by various disinformation sources, and now they don't know what happened, what happened. And so it is true, I must admit, that on the website of the Ministry of the Interior there is the original and translation of the declaration, and there is a press release. However, I might suggest a little bit for the government's IT department to try to better optimize SEO. When a citizen searches for e.g. The Marrakesh Declaration, so that at least on the first page of the search engines he gets the result from the official source from the Ministry's website, and not from the disinformation sources. I can see that it is beneficial for citizens to find out what really happened. Just for the committee's resolution. We, as pirát, will support him, except for the last point, to make development cooperation conditional, because I'm afraid it's sewn too hot a needle. So we're not going to support this point. Otherwise, the resolution is perfectly sound. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u28	Thank you. Please, Mrs Šafránková. Sorry, Mr Volný has another word with the de facto remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u29	Hello. I would like to ask Mr Kopřiva, through the President, whether he would be willing and able to repeat his statement from the Committee on European Affairs. I would like to ask Mr President to draw Mr Kopřiva's attention, if possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u30	Mr Kopřiva, please. [[Mr Kopřiva continues to discuss.]] So I'm not able to get attention either. Mr. Kopřiva... The MP is speaking to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u31	Thank you, Mr President. So I would like to ask Mr Kopřiva, through the President, whether he would be willing here to repeat his remarks from the soil of the Committee on European Affairs about the fact that patriotism is a vague concept for him personally, and that the Pirate Party clearly agrees and supports the entire text of the Marrakech Declaration, because it is in 100% compliance with its electoral programme. [[with emphasis]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u32	Mr. Kopřiva, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I did not want to prolong this debate any longer, however, when I was asked to do so, I will speak for the last time in this debate. First question. Through Mr President, my colleague, you are talking about committee meetings more than a month ago, and it has been discussed there, I believe, that the competences for education that we will still be discussing here in plenary. So we can keep this discussion when the debate is really going on here about the thing where the statement that was just twisted was made, because that's not what I said. And the other thing. What was the second thing, Mr President? Second question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u34	The other thing, if I remember correctly, was about the compliance of the Marrakesh Declaration with your party's electoral agenda. But I do not want to interpret Mr Volný's speech here, perhaps if the Member had gone to the counter and repeated his question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u35	With pleasure. Luckily, I don't have short-term memory problems as a pirate, because I didn't inhale enough not to, so I'm going to repeat the question. [[Laughing in the hall]] If you would repeat your claim that the Pirate Party fully supports the wording of the Marrakesh Declaration because it is 100% in agreement with your electoral program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u36	Well, that's the question. If you want to get off, of course you have room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u37	Well, thank you for repeating the question. I am afraid that we do not agree with this here, just as the Minister has assured us on the Committee on European Affairs that nothing has been signed there, that this is a non-binding declaration, so we will not approve anything here, or we will not be able to speak in favour or against it. But for me personally, as far as the text is concerned, in my opinion, the text of the action plan is not at all contrary to the pirate party programme, and, after all, I also believe that the resolutions that have taken up migration by the Chamber of Deputies, because I feel that we have talked about this several times, and I feel that we have agreed that problems are to be solved in those places where the problems arise, that they are to be combated by illegal smuggling, etc. So if you define yourself against the declaration, then you may well be denouncing yourself against your agenda, through Mr President, I would like to report this to the SPD. And I will no longer be speaking in this discussion, if I may. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u38	Mr Benešík, then Mr Peksa, all factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u39	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to recommend to all colleagues that if they want to speak to any press, it is good to get to know them about what they are called. reforms of Dublin IV. I have the impression that a number of colleagues have simply never read it, and yet she tried to get off with a fund-raiser, which is not quite good if I try to convince people that I understand something and represent their interests, and yet I don't know the material at all, which I experienced, and I was very sorry. And then I am grateful that Mr Free did not inhale enough. But he was probably inhaling something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u40	Mr. Peksa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u41	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like, therefore, to ask Mr Volný, through Mr President, if he would consider an apology to President Benešík for the statement that he said he was a brat before the other members of the committee. That seems inappropriate to me, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u42	Those were factual remarks. Now please, with a proper application from Mrs Šafránková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Metnar, by not rejecting the Marrakech Declaration, you have said that our country is at peace with virtually infinite migration, virtually moving entire nations. Behind the back of the citizens of our republic was not rejected by you document, which means that the Czech Republic does not define itself against this Marrakech declaration within the framework of the so-called "Marrakesh Declaration." The Rabat Process to promote legalised, I stress and repeat, legalised, originally illegal migration between Africa and Europe. It is clear that no one will migrate from Europe to Africa; the process will only be one-way. This declaration can be a turning point in the process of migration to Europe. The Declaration supports two other globalist agendas of the neo-Marxist world order, so called. Global compact and so-called Agenda 2030, and presented as a completely harmless document that has no effect on anything. The terminology in this declaration gives the impression that it is deliberately used so that no one understands it and no one can understand the possible consequences. The only minister in the participating countries has acted as a true citizen of his homeland and has been able to refuse to add a signature under the Marrakesh Declaration, namely the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Hungary, after consulting the legislators, which has been omitted from us. It is incomprehensible that such a strategic matter, which will have intimidating consequences in the future, will not be discussed at the level of Parliament and that without any recommendation or approval of the majority, such a document will not be rejected. I therefore call on all of you to vote in favour of our resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u44	Mr Benešík, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u45	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would very much like to refer to the fact that it was said here that it was written in a language that no one understands. Everyone should speak for themselves. I think that a number of people in this room understand the text, and that is a very important thing. Then one very important warning for all other performers. I am no supporter of the Marrakesh Declaration, but it has been clearly explained on the committee, justified, perhaps above all doubt, that the Minister of the Interior has not signed anything. So if it was said that the Home Secretary signed something, he didn't sign it. Technically, it's just that. And then one important thing. Infinite migration - now allow me to speculate. In that Web site of the Kremlin, which published a translation that was very inaccurate, and we drew attention to it on the committee, the word "regular migration" is translated as regular migration. And that's probably the core of the poodle, because this term means, and I was alerted to that a few years ago at a meeting, although I think I'm quite a proficient Englishman, that the word "regular" in this case means legal, legal, legal, and legal is fully within our competence. So if we exchange the word "regular" for "legal and legal" in that translation, that declaration gets a different meaning. Please, let us do this if we do not do this, so there will be an endless speech by Members about how the Czech Government has signed the possibility of endless migration to the Czech Republic, which, as I read it, is nonsense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u46	Mr Bžoch with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to be able to unresponsive to the previous speaker. Can't - can't! - to make illegal migration legal. You just can't! I don't know how you came up with this bluff. Next thing. The global compacts already mentioned here. There's two of them. One about refugees, one about migration. Neither is a legally binding document.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u48	Thank you. Now, Mr. Schwarzenberg.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u49	Mr President, honourable Members, in the old days of Austria, the strange custom of the Czech Members who stayed in Vienna during the week, rallyed on the Reichs Council, went around the ministries to lead the new railways through their district city, to help the Emperor help finance the new school, and then the Member in question stopped at the Ministry to see if he would have received the order of František Josef, who had already received his colleague last year. Then on Friday he got into the speedster, went to the Czech lands and spoke at the people's camp for the weekend and raged against the raging Austria and oppression of the Czech nation. It seems that these morals have been preserved in our country, and the same people who are rebelling against Brussels bureaucracy, against the suppression of Czech interests by the European Union, go to Brussels and speak a somewhat different language. This, of course, does not contribute to the credibility of our Members in our country and in Europe, but this habit exists. And so we have a report on the Marrakesh meeting, and I don't want to go into the details right now, there's a lot of people talking about. However, I can hardly imagine a treaty or any conference that would be binding on one side and not binding on the other. I said something there, but maybe according to the rule of our national classic, good soldier Švejk, who advised "should swear it to them and then fuck it" -- obviously this approach is preserved in our country. But let's move on to serious things. We must realise that migration has always been and always will be. And indeed, sixteen hundred years ago, the inhabitants of the last Celtic oppid and Germanic tribes that settled in Bohemia and Moravia were a little staring when the strange tribe from the Prussian swamps came and started to stretch out somewhere between Říp and here. [[unintelligible]] That's what always happened. Then, as we know, twelve hundred years ago, Maďar had a violent migration to Europe, which my predecessor praised so much at this counter. They only migrated here in the 8th century. This has always been the case, and migration will continue. It is indeed an initial interest that this should not take place naturally, but in certain rules and legally. We cannot be illusioned that we will build a large Chinese wall around the Czech Republic and avoid what is happening throughout Europe. We have to count on facts and act accordingly, not think we're avoiding it. This is just to think that those who promise to avoid it lie and knowingly lie, because one day, and thankfully some of our politicians have already realized it and slowly move with the helm of Czech politics that we will simply have to act like other European nations. We can brake, we can protest, but we can't avoid it. Therefore, I would ask that our politicians try to speak the same way in Brussels and in Prague once, which would be very beneficial for our policy, and realize that movements like the migration of nations cannot be avoided. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u50	Good afternoon. Dear Members, this was Mr Karel Schwarzenberg. Before we proceed, I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 11-45 to 12.00 she apologizes to Mrs Helena Langšádlová. We now have one factual remark from Vice-President Okamura and then one priority right, namely President Kalousek. Mr Vice-President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have learned some fundamental facts from the following discussion, particularly what Mr Kalousek said. Mr Kalousek told us that the Czech Parliament has no jurisdiction over migration, because he clearly said that in order to vote in favour of the resolution proposed by the SPD - I will repeat one sentence:'migration and asylum policy of the Czech Republic must remain in the full decision-making capacity of the Czech Republic' - that it cannot vote for this because it is said that international treaties do not allow us to do so. So, yes, that's exactly the kind of finding that needs to be repeated here. We'll vote for it. So let's change them. Let's talk about change. Let's open it on the international stage. But what President Kalousek here has confirmed through the President and mentioned is what we have been pointing out all along. If what the Czech Republic doesn't have in its hands, 100% in its hands, asylum and its asylum migration policy. And we want to change that. We say for the SPD, we want to change it. That is why we are promoting, among other things, a referendum so that citizens can decide, so that citizens can decide on our membership of the European Union. The Treaty of Lisbon is, of course, hidden under it. Because if these legal proposals, which I mentioned in my speech, are coming at us here, it's for us to talk about it, so we can clearly figure out what to do next. So President Kalousek here confirmed to us what I knew, of course. And it needs to be said. And we insist on the motion for our resolution. And, by the way, now I have a motion for a resolution from the Committee on European Affairs. Well, as we know, we know that the European Union is not able to distinguish between economic migrants and other migrants. That's still the carousel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u52	Mr Vice-President, the time has ended for a factual remark. Thank you. I will ask President Kalousek to be patient because I have two more factual points, namely Mr Mikuláš Peksa, first and then Mr Bžoch. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u53	Thank you. I'd just like to respond quickly to my previous speaker here. I believe that the Czech Republic, as a sovereign state, has the right to sign international treaties that will result in cooperation with other states on some policies. She did. That's what happened. The right of the Czech Republic to conclude international agreements or to revise these, or to accept others, does not change. Please, don't make this so dramatic all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u54	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ondřej Bžoch. [[Note from the diaper: Jaroslav.]] Jaroslav Bžoch, sorry. Because I already see a colleague Benešík who signed up for me, so I misjudged the name. I'm sorry. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I will be very brief on the sovereignty of the state and so on. The declaration specifically states - I quote it now: We accept the Marrakesh programme for the period 2018 to 2020, which includes the current political declaration, as well as a targeted operational action plan based on a regional approach, but also respecting the sovereignty of the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u56	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Benešík is now also making a point of fact. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u57	In order to avoid demagogy, which is almost impossible in the current debate, it is important that we distinguish between asylum and migration policy. Asylum policy is based on our international commitments. If anyone in the Czech Republic asks without distinction race, religion etc. asylum, that means international legal protection, because in his home country, in his home country, there is a risk of death, for example, so the application is assessed, evaluated by the Czech authorities under our law, but in accordance with these international obligations, and the person here international legal protection, because he is simply threatened with the loss of his life at home, is either granted or not provided. This is our international legal commitment, and it doesn't matter if it's a Jew, a Christian or a Muslim. That's our international commitment. [[11.10 hours]] Migration policy, that's completely different! We are negotiating here, or the government, not me, the influx of workers from Ukraine or the Philippines, because we are lacking in our labour market. Just our sick and old people have no one to treat! But that is in our competence, it is in the Czech Republic's own decision! And we are talking about this competence and this competence is and will remain in the decision-making power of the Czech Republic. Please, let's not demagogize here! That's two different things. Asylum law, protection of those who can be killed somewhere, and the Czech Republic will evaluate it under international law, or income for example. the workforce, where the Czech Republic makes its own decisions. Please, let's have this discussion in these intensities! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u58	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with priority right Chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u59	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow for a brief response to the last speech of Vice-President Okamura and then one procedural proposal. So maybe you can gong now. [[I'm gonna gong.]] I won't talk long. We got caught up at our club in a serious dispute about whether Vice-President Okamura really is such a demagogist, or if he really doesn't know anything about the problem. And so after his performance, it seems that the starting point is to compromise when we say that both are valid. Because it's quite obvious, I don't have to repeat why, because in front of me, Prime Minister Benešík said it. Let's just not confuse migration, let's not confuse economic migrants, and let's not confuse asylum seekers. In the case of asylum seekers, we are bound by international law, which we voluntarily decided on long before we joined the European Union. And I ask that every time we say that there are no international commitments for us or that we want to adopt a resolution where we do not recognise international commitments, so that we can also say: that is why we want to terminate such international agreements and such international agreements. But we would have to be aware of the context, and I would probably want that too much. Now for the procedural proposal. I remember a fresh discussion on the Organising Committee when we stated that there were no answers to the written interpelations, and we wondered what about the two hours that were reserved for the answers to the written interpelations. Marrakesh won from several possible proposals. But I think we've all assumed that it's really enough for those two hours. Obviously, this will require a longer discussion. And since 11 o'clock is long overdue, I would like to put forward a procedural motion to interrupt this point and place it at the very end of this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u60	We have a procedural proposal ahead of us. I've already begun. Those who are interested in deciding on it are certainly in the hall. There's a motion to interrupt this item and return it to the agenda. We will decide in the vote number 71, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of interrupting this point. Who's against interrupting the point? Thank you. In voting order number 71 of 138 present for 35, against 24. The proposal has not been adopted and we will therefore continue the debate. It is now Mr Leo Luzar's turn to submit, and Mr Jiří Kobza will be prepared. I will ask the House for peace so that we can have a debate in an environment that is sufficiently dignified to discuss this point. If you are discussing another subject, please, in principle in the foyer. Wait a minute, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I am only at the start of a slight turn-off. It said here we shouldn't drag it out. Unfortunately, I have to say that we started an hour later than we should have started, even though yesterday a colleague Benešík was warned that calling the committee at the time he proposed was counterproductive given the subject that he would not make it. However, the Minister on the words of his colleague Benešík - and it is not the first time that Mr Benešík responds to such questions and convenes these committees, calling these committees closely, exceptionally, to respond in time and to have an argument - so next time, Minister, consider whether it is appropriate for the Prime Minister to invite you for nine hours to not come and say, I had a meeting with a fellow Minister, and therefore, Prime Minister, excuse me. In other words, you were supposed to interrupt the committee's meeting and come to us and we could continue, and maybe this would be over. But I don't think you're gonna make that mistake next time, and you'll know that the House in this regard is more important than the committee that has been particularly convened on this matter. But now on the fundamental subject of today's negotiations. To begin with, you are quite innocent in the Marrakesh treaty or protocol. You have merely continued some of the events to which the Czech Republic has historically committed itself, which is constantly going on in the European Union, and the responses to the individual actions that result from the activities taking place in the European Union are adequate only to the fact that on this occasion in Marrakech the Hungarian Foreign Minister, who refused to sign this Treaty, has called on him. Now, I don't know if he signed it, or if he just made a reservation on the contract, I don't know how far in diplomatic terms his performance was made. But I don't want to discuss it, because I'm saying you're quite innocent in this and you're trapped by events going on. The traps were caused in 2004. In 2004, common basic principles for policy on the integration of immigrants of the European Union were established. This was a document that we were supposed to keep in mind all the time we were talking about the migration crisis. Since this document was updated in 2016 and an Action Plan was established for the integration of third-country nationals. In this action plan, it is said that there are some 20 miles in the European Union. persons, that is four percent who are not nationals of European Union countries. In other words, they are members of third countries outside the European Union, but they work here, they live here, but they are not stable members of this country. In 2004, the European Union adopted a document on the action plan for labour influx into the European Union. This was followed by various Eastern Partnerships and similar issues within the EU, which aimed to strengthen the European Union labour market by five million workers in order. In the original intention adopted by the European Union, it was said that it needed to strengthen, and that in the economy, we are all aware of why. It was intended to be a selection of staff from these very countries, culturally close, in order to strengthen Europe's economic space. Unfortunately, the migration crisis after 2010, 2011, 2013, which came to Europe by an estimated three million migrants from a completely different area than originally targeted, forced the European Union to reconsider its 2004 programme, i.e. the common basic principles for the policy on the integration of immigrants of the European Union, and it has created an action plan for integration, replacing the target areas to which it was heading, to those countries from which it expected the tide to be, for those who were already here. In other words, it modified the entire programme so that it could integrate the three million people who came to Europe in the context of the migration crisis. [[11.20 hours]] Here I would like to oppose - just legal and illegal migration. She just took note of the three million people, and now, let's say, they're illegal, mostly economic migrants, took them and legalized them, and she's going to integrate them in this action plan. The action plan is financially secure, educatedly secured, only very detailed and it sets out tasks for individual Member States as to how they should proceed. In other words, the European Union has taken note that there is a problem, quite a major problem, that it will not succeed in bringing the three million people who have already come to Europe in the context of the migration crisis out of that Europe and have decided to integrate them. In other words, he legalizes them. The problem may be for SPD colleagues because we are members of the Schengen area, so if Italy does so, it will say that "these are no longer illegal migrants, we will legalize them" so that the free movement of people and workers in Schengen can run throughout Europe. These ideas, or the threats - I say this in the quotes of threats - some of the Member States of the European Union have already been heard in the past, and I will not be here to remind Italy and Greece. When I return to the action plan for the integration of third-country nationals, I must mention here that the basic text is already being mentioned at the outset that, regardless of the efforts made, third-country nationals throughout the European Union continue to do worse than European Union citizens, in terms of employment, education, social inclusion results. At the same time, the recent measures taken to improve the management of the large number of people in need of protection whose arrival the EU is currently facing, including those in the area of relocation and resettlement, stressed the need for Member States with less integration experience to develop effective integration strategies. And that's where my goal is for tonight's performance. I would like the Czech Government to present a Czech proposal for integration or an effective integration strategy within the Strategic Framework of the Czech Republic 2030, which should also talk about these issues, but mainly focuses on the Czech population, Czech development and Czech economic growth. The Czech Republic should have it, just as Hungary has it, which has been referred to under the Marrakesh Protocol, for indeed every Member State of the European Union should have such an integration strategy prepared and should be able to respond to it. In other words, the Czech Republic has enough members in its territory from other Member States or from non-EU Member States - and now I can talk about ukrajinec, I can talk about Slovác who are members, they work here, they integrate somehow, but we do not have them caught up in any integration strategic plan, as the European Union imposes, as the European Union asks. If such an integration strategy existed, comments and conditions that the SPD speaks about the protection of the Czech space could also be answered - not only migration, but also asylum, how to deal with and how to work within the admission of asylum, but also, of course, this integration strategy would also address the elements associated with migration, or the integration of already arrived citizens of foreign states in the territory of the Czech Republic. Among other things, the European Union adopted a completely new instrument for monitoring the European Union's integration activities in 2017. Here I want to stress that the Czech Government accepted this project, the then Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka accepted it, and we only marginally got to it in the last parliamentary term, but we did not deal with this matter. I would therefore like to stress that this is not about the fact that a step has now been created by signing or logging in to the Marrakesh Protocol, but it also follows from the history of the steps taken by the previous government and which persist as a response to the European Union's action on a migration crisis that the European Union cannot deal with. This must be stressed that the European Union simply failed to cope with the wave of emigration that has come, it has not been handled mainly by the countries that are facing it, therefore the constant tendency to move and to try, as if the pressure, which Germany, Italy, France, Sweden, in particular, are supposed to shift to the whole of the European Union. And we hear those screams constantly in Europe, and they are the ones that raise the moods, say, problematic in the European Union. And if the Czech Republic does not have an effective migration strategy on how to proceed in the future, which we could appeal to, and which we could also respond to within Europe as a separate Czech contribution to this problem, how to proceed, these steps will constantly return, and in this House we will have to constantly deal with this ad post of things that are already going to happen, and we will have to deal with them perhaps with such debates. So I appeal that the Ministry of the Interior, or directly the Prime Minister - I do not know how this will be divided in the future government - will be very intensively engaged in the preparation of the Czech effective integration strategic plan so that we do not have to deal with these issues here next time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u62	I thank Mr Luzar. One more factual comment by Mr Jaroslav Bžoch. And Mr. Benešík's point of order, all right. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u63	Thank you. We're still talking about the Marrakesh deal. I think we're somewhere else. And here, at least I haven't found it, there's nothing about the integration of migrants in the territory of the European Union or anywhere else. It says "reintegration." That means the deal is trying to integrate back the people we send home from here, not integration with us. There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u64	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Benešík's point of order, then Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u65	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to say that the European Union - which is also us, we have, of course, our MEPs, the Commissioner, we have our ministers in the EU Council, we have our prime minister in the European Council, so we, too, have a voice there - does not command us to have any integration policy. She's recommending it, and it's our decision whether or not we choose it and whether or not we make the recommendations. So here's total volunteering, and it's up to us. But that is a bit contrary to what it is saying here - "The European Union is telling us something, we have to do it" and then I hear here from the other side "The European Union is telling us, and we are not doing it to our detriment"." She's just recommending it, she's not ordering us. And as for calling the committee, for the sake of the beggar. Like miracles right away, impossible to wait. I simply called the committee a long time before this point was included as a negotiating point, and I pointed out that it could turn out the way it did. We're just not robots! We've done everything we can to discuss this on a committee where experts, such as executives, perform. And if the Members had taken the time to go there, some of the performances would have looked completely different. Now I'm not referring to Le Luzar, who was performing in front of me, but to some others who were discussing earlier. So I just can't do it any other way. On the contrary, I thank the members of our committee, all of them who participated, that they are willing to act this way in an operational way, so that we are able to contain these things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u66	[[He's coming in.]] You too, Mr President -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u67	Just one last quick thing. Minister -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u68	Don't do this. Don't do it, Mr. Chairman! [[The speaker, who still speaks, was turned off by the microphone.]] All right, everybody, we need to follow the rules of procedure, and we need to make a point of fact. Remember, you only have two minutes to do this, and I have to comply with the Rules of Procedure, which is what the President is always there for. Now, therefore, Mr Luzar's factual remark, Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared, also a factual remark, then just another sign-in. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u69	Thank you for the floor. I'll take my colleague Benešík and his mea culp that said here... [[Nesroz. note messenger. Benešik.]] But a committee week, not an MP week. And not to solve ad post, but forward. In other words -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u70	Member, address other colleagues through the President!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u71	I'm sorry. Through the President, I would still like to respond to what has been said here about the Marrakesh vision from a fellow speaker. It is the extraction of individualities such as this protocol, from the overall framework of EU policy within integration, migration and others, that is the problem that we are dealing with here. If we look at it in this whole complex, in this material, which is only unique - how much does it have? About 40 pages, where only the tables are written in the basic features that it will relate to, but they are developed and it's a book like this. [[shows]] If you read it, you'll find it's really going into great detail, and the Marrakesh protocol is only one part of how to deal with possibly preventing the next tide from where it comes from. In other words, that is why I said that the Minister is innocent of this, because he only responded to the partial steps resulting from this EU integration process adopted in 2004 and amended in 2016 to that of responding to the migration crisis. Once we start pulling this out, we're gonna get trapped in more and more things. But we always have to go back to the beginning. And at that beginning, it was said that each EU state would prepare its strategy to respond to these issues, and we should also, as the Czech Republic, have it ready and know how we will react when it comes, and now, for example, from Ukraine, 50,000 employees. How will we react? Where do we put them? What locations? We're not ready for this. We don't know about this. We are trying, I have read some outputs, but it is not the integration strategy that the EU has developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u72	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Lubomír Lubomír Volný now also with a point of fact. There's still a co-worker Kobza who's properly logged in. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u73	Thank you, Mr President. I am by your means to the chairman of our committee Benešík. You still deliberately don't understand, or you don't want to understand our position. The important thing is that the EU can recommend something and ask us to do something, but it can also order us to do something. This option here is, we know about it, and that's what we warn our voters, our citizens about. This is the possibility that the EU can order us to do some things, it can overrule us, it can force us to accept them in its essence against our own will, and that is the thing that we draw our attention to and that we fear and that we would like to change fundamentally. Through Mr President to Mr Bžoch from YES. Legalization of illegal immigration is a plan that is under way, which is being prepared, which is being worked on. If you do not believe the opinion of the MP for the SPD, hear the opinion of the ODS Members who were at the same, about six-seven-eight-hour negotiations in Brussels, where 99 percent of the time talked about nothing but illegal immigration to control its legalization. So you're not going to have ten twenty million illegal immigrants here, but you're going to have, like, ten twenty million legal immigrants, which is the exact same and fundamental problem for me personally. In this document, just as Mr Luzar has pointed out, we will play with words, yes, integration there with a probability of playing with certainty is not, I agree with you, but it says clearly: heading 2 - legal migration and mobility, Objective 3 - promoting legal migration and mobility, in particular -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u74	Mr. Ambassador, you've also run out of time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u75	Yes, I understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u76	Mr Benešík's point of order now. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u77	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I crossed the time limit and didn't finish my original entry. Indeed, the Home Secretary is completely innocent of this, because I was in charge of the committee, and he just didn't leave because I didn't allow it. Now I'm saying it a little pompous. So the Home Secretary is off the hook when it comes to late arrival at this meeting, and it's on my head. And of course I didn't say that the EU, virtually. common EU institutions, where we have our representation, always recommend something. When we receive the press we are discussing in the European Committee, note that it says: recommendations, regulations, directives. So let's see what these words mean. Specifically, integration is a recommendation. This means that we will either act accordingly, or we will not act accordingly, and we have a free decision in this regard. So not always, that's true. But where we have transferred the powers in the referendum to the common institutions, there is a majority vote, somewhere voting unanimously, that is, we have the right to veto and every state has, and sometimes it is a recommendation. So let's listen to each other, that's right. But, of course, the policy and what is being promoted at European level is based on what individual Member States are like. And if the new Italian government, where the partners of the SPD are, has in its programming statement that the Dublin system needs to be overcome, the principle of fair distribution, the responsibility contained in the TFEU, must be guaranteed through the mandatory and automatic relocation of asylum seekers between individual EU Member States. That's what they call it. The League, formerly the League of the North, which is with Mrs Le Pen and also with the SPD in one political faction within the EU. So let's say who is promoting what at European level!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u78	Time's up. Thank you. We can continue with the proper application of Mr Kobza. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Minister, I would like to confirm the previous speakers that Minister Metnar personally is the heir throughout this affair and to a large extent innocent, so my contributions in the Committee on European Affairs have also been directed against the substance of the matter, not against the person of the Minister. I hope that's what it sounded like. It's just for starters. The Marrakesh Conference and the Marrakesh Declaration are for us, despite all the assurances that this is not a legally binding document, despite all this a very serious matter. The Marrakesh conference was attended by 56 ministers from 57 countries in Africa, the Middle East and Europe. It is therefore inaccurate to indicate that 56 ministers would simply meet and talk about how to deal with migration. The conference has an output that has a far-reaching impact. The point is that the conference in Marrakesh has signed up to address the migration crises before this conference, in particular the global approach to migration and mobility of 2011. What we lack at the exit from this conference, what we are lacking and what is somehow forcing us to hear is the fact that this conference follows up on previous agreements, regardless of what has happened since then, as if there has been no migration crisis, as if there has been no increase in crime by migrants, as if there has been no huge wave of violence against women we see in Western Europe, as if there has been no boom and a large number of terrorist attacks and the number of deaths. [[11.40 hours]] So that is why we have very serious reservations about this conference and its output, because by agreeing with the Marrakech agreement, the states refuse to learn from the mistakes that have happened. Moreover, the document continues the philosophy of the previous EU policy. It calls for the positive impact of migration to Europe on development, calls for a further fight against xenophobia, racism and Islamophobia. This means, in turn, that this is another political influence on the European population, so that this mass migration, which is concerned, can be reconciled. This is how it has been said here that, according to the results of the Marrakesh Agreement, a subset of migrants who are going to Europe will move to the area of legal migration because they will be able to obtain visas and obtain a work permit far easier than before. As I have already said, I consider the Czech law on migration and asylum law to be perfect and it is quite unacceptable for me to retreat from these rules, however much the European Union can push or do not push. Because I think that who will live and work with us will not be decided by a Řek in Brussels, but it must always be responsible for the Czech authorities that have it in Georgia. It must also be said that the Marrakesh Declaration, which builds on the Rabat Process, which involves migration from central, western and part of North Africa, is only half the territory that is the source of migrants, because alongside the Rabat Process, there is also the Khartoum Process, which is the Eastern Way, which actually includes the other half of North, East and Central Africa. For these reasons, we can say quite responsibly that the declaration is perhaps one of the most important documents on migration at the moment. Instead of tightening sanctions for illegal migration, for illegal entry into the Schengen territory or in the EU, it seeks ways to simplify border controls and the issue of visas to migrants. The importance of the declaration also arises from the connection to previous contracts, documents and directives that are thematically related to them. It confirms what is in previous contracts. So the Marrakesh Declaration is dangerous not only by what is stated in it, but also by what is not stated in it, what is stated in the previous documents. Moreover, it is very sensitive and dangerous and socially, because we can rightly assume that as legal migrants, there will be people coming to Europe who can be considered an African elite in terms of education, expertise, experience and craft skills. We can assume that this brain drain will not only provoke another wave of illegal migration, but will significantly weaken the potential and already shaky economy of the source countries. It is therefore a question of to what extent this is desirable also in view of the potential development of source countries. It is clearly stated in the SPD programme that we will support aid to these countries in the place of resources, where migrants come from. We want to promote aid in a way: we will not bring you our agricultural surpluses and give them to you for free, so that we can write them off, but in a way: we will bring you fishing rods and we will buy from you the fish you will catch. Because, first, we will allow those countries to develop, we will allow them to stand on their own two feet, and we will also allow people who will be the future elite of these countries to start developing in their own business and in their own care for themselves. We in the SPD can therefore not accept the declaration as it is written, we have a number of reservations about it. However, we have one main point that we want to push through, despite the fact that we have given up our own autonomy by signing the Treaty of Lisbon and signing the previous EU treaties, as Mrs Langšádlová said very precisely here. We insist that all migration be governed by the Czech asylum and migration law, and if this law appears to be contrary to the Lisbon Agreement and the subsequent protocols, then we must start working to change them and return autonomy to our authorities, to return the autonomy of our state, to the State responsible, to the State that is the service organisation of citizens and which is to protect them, to protect their well-being, to ensure that the State is responsible for who will live and work here and under what conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u80	I thank Mr Jiří Kobza. Now, Mrs Helena Langšádlová's point of order. A colleague of Vích will be ready. In the meantime, my colleague Benešík withdrew his application for the debate. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u81	Thank you for the floor. I would like, Mr Vice-President, to respond to some of the things that have been said here. I'm glad my colleague Kobza said our asylum system was good. But he's good and he's based on European secondary law. Today, our good asylum system is actually based on the European guidelines. That is true, because already - and I said so - not Lisbon, but the 1997 Treaty of Amsterdam, the so-called Amsterdam Treaty, regulated that we have shared competences in the area of migration, including asylum regulation, return policy, smuggling. In fact, migration remained in the national competence, legal migration to the labour market. But when you say he's good today, he's in line and he's reflected in the common migration policy. And just as at the present moment, in that situation, when you say it's good, in the very critical Dublin IV, it's still national states that would decide who stays with them, who doesn't stay with them, who gets asylum and who doesn't get asylum. Otherwise, I wanted to make some adjustments to what was said here, if I understood you correctly. You said there was some Marrakesh and Dublin trial. Excuse me? [[Member Kobza from outside the microphone: Khartoumský.]] Khartoumsky. I'm sure you do. But I really think that we need to talk as much about these issues as possible, because it really is so that when the Czech Republic joins the European Union, this has been set up, and the asylum policy that you say is good, so it is already in line with the secondary law of the European Union, and I think it is very well set up at the level of the Czech Republic, and we are really not facing any problems here at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u82	Madame, the time has passed for a point of fact. [[Ms Langshadlová: Thank you.]] Thank you. We will continue with Mr Radovan Vích's speech. Co-worker Kobza with the facts, okay. Then my colleague Vích will wait. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u83	Thank you, Mr President. I thank my colleague Langšádlová for your clarification and explanation. I also see the main problem in applying and interpreting these laws, because we can see the example of Hungary, which followed both Lisbon and Dublin agreements very strictly, and we can see how vaguely these laws have been applied in Western European countries. So maybe it's a good way to start from saying: any variability in interpretations of these laws has ended, we're going to apply them strictly and precisely and completely unsympathetically. I think that is something that we can do, on which we can agree across the political spectrum, and it will be a good point in finding our own policy to tackle the migration crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u84	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Once again, Mrs. Langšádlová. First, I'm going to read her cancellation of her apology from the hearing. It was delivered to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. However, they apologize from the meeting from 12.00 to 15.00 to Tomáš Hanzel for work reasons and Lukáš Černohorský from 14.30 to 19.00 because of negotiations outside the House. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u85	Thank you. I have to respond after all. There is a lot of talk about Hungary here, but let us remember the situation at the time of the climax of the crisis. Hungary wasn't the one who closed the border. Hungary was in a situation where there were several hundred thousand migrants on its territory who simply came there. Hungary didn't manage the situation at all in the early stages, and those people would have been there by now, perhaps if it wasn't Germany, which called those people to go to them, because they simply have more capacity for it, they are richer. And that's a need, that's a fact, it just needs to be fair, so it needs to be said. And, you know, you often refer to Hungary as your symbol of the country that is anti-European, and I, as well as of the people of Hungary and the people who watch it as political scientists, know that Orbán, for example, is very pro-European. Because he always talks about criticism, or often when he talks about criticism, namely, a concrete step, a specific European policy, so he immediately tells you: but I know that the European Union project is good, and maybe the criticism - and I do not want to stand up for it, in many ways I do not agree with it - part of it is that it matters to him, and even in Hungary there is now very active talk about becoming part of the eurozone. The policy that you represent here, perhaps, and the policy that the Maďar are doing, and I agree with them not all of it, is completely different. They want to be part of the European Union, but more actively want to approach what the European Union is meant to be. They're not destructive to that extent. It is strange how many countries that may be worse off than us, such as Bulgaria, Romania, perhaps even Croatia, are trying very hard to be part of the European Union, a solid part of it, and the euro area.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u86	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another factual point by Mr Lubomír Volný and a colleague, Radovan Vích, is registered. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say by your means to Mrs Langšádlová that Hungary has not failed. Řecko has selhat. Greece has failed, which has failed to fulfil its obligations towards us and has failed to fulfil its obligations to the European Union, and has failed to fulfil its obligations to Hungary. And it was Hungary that responded and incredibly quickly secured the border that Greece refused to secure, and Hungary saved us because it reacted very clearly and quickly. You're gonna have a hard time denying the fact that those people came to Hungary from somewhere. I would also like to ask that no one here, including me, but including you, through the President, Mrs Langšádlová, should play an expert on Hungary. We are not Hungarian experts, we are not their press speakers. Let us judge only those steps that are clear, visible and cannot be said otherwise in any way. Hungary has built a fence, and thanks to that fence in Europe, there aren't millions of illegal immigrants. I really would not like to go into the analysis of Hungarian foreign policy here, and I hope that you will not do so either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u88	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, but you have raised a point of fact by my colleague Langšádlová, so I will also give her a word on the point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I will make my own decisions about what I am going to say or not to do. Perhaps my response is also based on the fact that Mr Orbán is part of the European People's Party and I have had the opportunity to hear him personally several times at the EPP congresses, so it may also show that I know some of his views and opinions. Otherwise, about what you said about the border. There are certainly many mistakes made by Greece, but the fact is that Hungary is the external border of Schengen. Greece is actually such a Schengen island when you look at the map, because Hungary does not sit with any Schengen country, i.e. it is the one that must also protect its borders under the Schengen Treaties. Thank you for letting me make this right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u90	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Radovan Vích, Mr Skopeček will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members, the Marrakech Political Declaration. The first indication that this is not such an innocent document was the rejection of this declaration by a Hungarian representative at this conference. From my point of view, what is the main problem with this declaration? Behind the meticulous introductory phrases are hiding sentences about how beneficial migration is, that it should not be defended, regardless of the status of migrants. This sounds as if it doesn't matter whether they have entered Europe legally or illegally, whether they are entitled to asylum or not. Furthermore, the States undertake to support and strengthen the possibilities for legal migration, facilitate the issue of visas, and strengthen the administrative capacity of the national states to this end. They also declare the will to simplify the transfer of funds to their home country, in particular to protect young people who are not accompanied by migrants, to create action plans for possible mass resettlement and to support the principle of non-return, that is only voluntary return. We know what problems there are in Germany. The Minister of Demission of Metnar agreed this document without being discussed in the relevant House Committees, and that is unacceptable from my point of view. I therefore ask you to support the resolution tabled by Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Okamura, with the fact that the migration and asylum policy of our country should remain fully in the competence of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u92	Thank you, Mr Radovan Vích, now Mr Jan Skopeček, so far, for the last entry into the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u93	Thank you very much. First, I will respond to the debate or to some of the sentences that have been raised here, and then I will return to the very substance of the matter that we are discussing today. Here in the discussion, there were such innocent sentences that we had to sort of accept the migration of the nations, that the Czech Republic would not avoid it anyway, and that we should not be so pinchtlich. I would very much like to reject this and, in my view, this is what feeds on the subsequent discussions, even about materials that are not of the significance that we then attach to it. But I would really like to avoid moving nations. I think what Germany did in connection with opening up to immigrants was a fundamental mistake. I call this Europe's suicide, and we must do everything we can to avoid repeating these mistakes not only by Germany but also by other Western states. So it's just for starters, so we can set the debate straight. Then there was the hypothesis that in Brussels we speak as politicians in a different way than on domestic soil. I would like to assure you that I have taken part in an interinstitutional meeting in the European Parliament on the issue of migration, and I can assure you that I am speaking in the same way as I am speaking in the Czech Parliament, and the colleagues who have been there will confirm that I was very angry and very critical of the fact that, within one point, words such as legal migration, family merging, illegal migration have been mixed in the European Parliament, and there has been an incredible mishmash that once again gives an excuse to make a misunderstanding. I therefore think that this was the intention of the European Union, because it wants to hide things under certain terms. As a result, this heated debate, or a mistranslation of one sentence from the Marrakesh agreement that caused today's debate, probably arose. I am therefore glad that, in the resolution that we have prepared for the Committee on European Affairs, my colleagues and my colleagues have also succeeded in making this resolution clear and clear that we must distinguish between legal economic migration, illegal economic migration and asylum management of people who are in some way at risk in their homes. If we don't do this and if we don't talk about the exact dates and talk about the kind of migration we're talking about, and we know what we're talking about, it's gonna cause a lot of misunderstanding again. [[12.00 hours]] When I go back to the declaration, I have to honestly say that when I read it, I don't like it either. And I don't like it for a number of reasons, and that's the possible substantive dispute that we can have about her. This agreement is written in my opinion on such a serious topic too generally, or individual wordings offer different ways of interpretation. We have just discussed with the Minister that, for example, under mobility, education or the exit of people from Africa is understood in this document, for example, for education to Europe. However, it is very wrong, in my view, that such general terms under which there can be a lot to imagine under the word mobility in the context of the migration crisis, and this does not intuitively lead me to believe that this is only education. There are a lot of general provisions that, in my opinion, offer different interpretations. All the more important for me is for the Minister - he already did it on the committee - to say something here on the microphone, but to say clearly once again that the declaration is legally non-binding for the Czech Republic. That's the first thing. I want the Minister to say that he does not change the sovereignty of the Czech Republic in migration and migration policies in any way. I want him to say on the microphone or to say that he has applied to it precisely because the agreement, in addition to the things that we are criticizing, is also talking about return policy and talks and is the basis for developing programmes that will make Africa's regions more stable, that is, to prevent migration from Africa. If this is the price at which we have applied to the Marrakesh Declaration, that means that migration from the African continent will be minimized, because this agreement provides the basis for developing programmes that make these regions more stable, then I can accept with a heavy conscience or with a heavy head theorems that feminist issues and similar things are needed in the context of the migration crisis that appear there and which, in my opinion, have nothing to do there. I'd like to ask the Minister for that. I think it'll be an important message for everyone. Then, with a heavy conscience, I am able to compromise, which we have formulated in committee and which also talks about supporting African regions only if cooperation is developed in return policy between Europe and other continents and Africa and if African countries are cooperative in this sense. Thank you for any answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u94	Thank you. Mr Skopeček was the last member of the general debate. Someone else from the point of view to the general debate is reporting, please. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words after the general debate. It is not, so we can proceed to the debate in detail. Mr Rozvoral is entered into a detailed debate. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read the motion for a resolution on this point for the SPD: The migration and asylum policy of our country must remain in full decision-making capacity of the Czech Republic. I propose that the proposed resolutions be voted on in the proposed order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u96	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Benešík is also entered into a detailed debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u97	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My message is going to be a little bit longer. I have been tasked with the Committee on European Affairs, first of all, to introduce you to the resolution we adopted before this meeting, and secondly, I also propose that the Chamber of Deputies vote on this resolution, and that the resolution of the Committee on European Affairs on the Marrakech Declaration should become a resolution of the entire Chamber of Deputies. Committee on European Affairs Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the report by the Minister of Interior Lubomír Metnar and after the debate 1. Notes the report of the Minister of Interior concerning the Marrakesh Political Declaration; 2. Insists that in the field of legal economic migration the status quo must be maintained, i.e. that powers including decision-making on the selection of source countries, the number of migrants, their professional qualifications, the possibility of rejection of applicants, etc. remained in the competence of the competent authorities of the Czech Republic; 3. insists on a consistent distinction between legal economic migration, illegal economic migration and the provision of international protection to vulnerable persons; 4. Supports the inclusion of new African States' commitments in the Marrakesh Declaration concerning the fight against illegal migration, organised smuggling and human smuggling, as well as strengthening cooperation in return policy, i.e. improving border control, strengthening police and judicial cooperation, increased information exchange, identification of illegal migrants, faster issuing of replacement travel documents, etc., and underlines the importance of early implementation of these measures; 5. Considers that the support given to African countries in their fight against illegal migration and organised smuggling is an appropriate and effective instrument for preventing further possible strengthening of migration flows from this region towards Europe in the coming years; 6. Draws attention to the inaccurate translation of the Marrakesh Declaration into the Czech language by disinformation sources, which significantly shifts and distorts the content of the declaration, such as regular migration, as standard used in the meaning of legal migration, is translated as regular migration, which fundamentally disinterprets the importance of the declaration; 7. It proposes to make development aid granted to source countries conditional on their cooperation in the field of return; 8. Instructs the President of the Committee on European Affairs to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. In addition to doing so, I propose that this resolution be voted as a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies, adding that, apart from minor amendments and additions to paragraph 7, I have proposed this resolution to the committee as the promoter of this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u98	Thank you. Mr Jaroslav Bžoch is another member of the detailed debate. After that, Mr Mikuláš Peksa will speak in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Good day again, dear colleagues. I'm not going to read another resolution. I would just join in and ask for the support of the resolution that my colleague Benešík has read here. The change in point 7-- I think the SPD colleagues will call it even. It says: make development aid granted to resource countries conditional on their cooperation in the area of return, which means that we will continue to put pressure on those countries to take back illegal migrants from us, which should be our policy. I ask once again for the approval of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u100	Thank you. Mr Peksa has the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u101	Thank you. I would have a procedural request whether it would be possible for paragraphs 1 to 6 of the proposed resolution to be voted on separately and on paragraph 7 separately, because it seems extremely inappropriate for me to make development aid subject to any implementation from the other side. Then it doesn't happen with help, but it's just business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u102	Yes, I understand the request that the resolution proposed by Mr Benešík should be voted in divided terms on points 1 to 6 and 7. I'm sure we can do that. Is anyone else reporting for a detailed debate, please? No, no one is reporting to the debate in detail, so I am ending the debate in detail and I am asking if there is an interest in the final words. There's no interest in final words. However, before we proceed to the vote, there is a request for Mr Benešík to speak for the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u103	Thank you for the floor. As Vice-President of the KDU-ČSL Club in a situation where the President of our club is absent, I request a break at the meeting of our club before the vote for 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u104	Okay, Mr. Ambassador, of course I'm okay with this request. I'm interrupting the meeting, and I'll meet you back here at 12.25 a.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, the time has passed, which has been set for a break for the KDU-ČSL meeting, and we will continue to discuss the proposal. We are at the moment of the vote on resolutions, as it has been read here. However, before we proceed, I will introduce you to changes in apologies. Mrs Kovářová cancels the apology that has been loaded here, Minister of Foreign Affairs Martin Stropnickýý apologizes today from 12 to 16 o'clock for work reasons, and because of the meeting in the electoral region, from 12 to 13 o'clock, Mr David Pražák apologises for today's meeting. [[Big noise in the hall.]] I will now ask you to remain calm so that we can take the vote and follow the procedure as proposed. I note that the motion for a resolution was first made in a detailed debate, just as Mr Rozvoral presented it. Furthermore, in a detailed debate, a proposal was made for the Chamber of Deputies to approve as its resolution the resolution adopted by the Committee on European Affairs. This proposal was made by Mr Benešík. Furthermore, in a detailed debate, there was a proposal by Mr Peksa to vote separately on points 1 to 6 and 7 in the context of the approval of the resolution proposed by Mr Benešík. I assume that at this point, it is clear to all what we are going to vote on. I ask if anyone is interested in rereading the resolution or if we can refer to reading it in a detailed debate. There is no interest in rereading the resolution, so we will vote according to the procedure that I have now introduced you to and which I have proposed. There's a check-out request, so I'm going to check everyone out, and I'm asking you to re-enlist with your I.D. cards. We will now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled here by Mr Rozvoral. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 72, 136 Members registered, for 26, against 24. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on paragraphs 1 to 6 of the motion for a resolution, as Mr Benešík has read here in a detailed debate. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 73, 139 Members present, for 137, there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. And the last vote on this point concerns paragraph 7 of the resolution presented here by Mr Benešík. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 74, 140 Members signed in for 116, versus 1. The motion for a resolution has also been adopted. I'm done discussing this point. Thank you, Mr Rozvoral. Before we proceed to discuss the next item, Vice-President Okamura, Mr Benešík, shall report with priority. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the entire Chamber of Deputies for agreeing in the first phase that you agreed to the proposal of our SPD to discuss this point and that this serious debate could have taken place here at all. At the same time, I would like to thank all the Members who supported the resolution of the Committee on European Affairs, which, of course, our Members are also a member of, that the outcome of this item is the House resolution, which essentially expresses the position which the Government of the Czech Republic should now follow. So, after we voted together and thanks to your votes in favour of the Dublin IV government in January, I think it's another great cooperation across the political spectrum that we have found a political consensus on this serious issue again. And I think that's proof that we're all able to work together on different topics here, and we can find a common ground. So I wanted to thank you once again, and I also wanted to ask you if we could follow these serious migration issues in the future. And, of course, if this is going to go back on track and accumulate in some way, we, as the SPD, would definitely propose, in cooperation with you, a point where I think we should once again adopt a similar resolution and, in that sense, do the task or give an opinion to the government. So thank you again and I look forward to further cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u107	ano, with priority rights for KDU-ČSL, Mr. Mr. Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u108	I am very pleased to thank everyone for supporting my motion for a resolution. And I also thank all those who understand that someone else wants to take my job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-001-115.u109	Thank you. The meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from today's meeting between 12:25 and 19:00 apologizes for working reasons, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg. Initiating item number
