ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-017-036.u1	36. Proposal by Members of Alena Gajdůšková, Ondřej Veselý, Petr Dolínek, Jiří Běhounek, Jan Chvojka, Kateřina Valachová, Jan Hamáček and Bohuslav Sobotka for the issue of the Act on Advanced Maintenance for an Unaided Child and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts (Law on Advanced Maintenance) /Departmental Printing 126/ - First Reading The Government's position was delivered as a House press 126/1. I would ask that the proposal put forward by the appellants' representatives, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-017-036.u2	Mr President, Ministers, Members of Parliament, I am truly honored to present to you, on behalf of the petitioners, members of the Social Democracy Club, a bill on backed-up maintenance. First let me say a few general words, then a few numbers that outline what the problem is, then introduce the principles of this proposal, and then ask for your support. The purpose of the Act, which is repeatedly presented by social democracy, is to help children from incomplete families who are unable to ensure the enforcement of their right, the right to maintenance. We care about the children, and it's the enforcement of the law that we're after. Statistics say there are 180 thousand in the Czech Republic. single parents and a third of them are on the verge of poverty. There are 90 percent of children in the mother's sole care. In 2015, 10 056 people were charged with the malpractice of compulsory nutrition and 8 157 persons were convicted. Each sixth single person suffers from severe poverty, material deprivation. The chances of falling into it are almost four times higher than in households without children. Here is important for us and comparison with Europe, where the negative chance that the single mother falls into severe poverty, material deprivation, is twice as small. Most singles, as reported by the researches of the singles club, cannot afford a sudden expense of around 10,000. Crowns. This is also reported by the Statistical Office. And the research on the singles club says that every fourth mother can't afford to buy fruit and vegetables on a regular basis. And we could keep going. In 2016, 247 thousand were at risk of income poverty in the Czech Republic. persons under 15 years of age. I'll translate into Czech, just 247 thousand. children live in poverty. It must be added that the average maintenance debt is 90 thousand. The crown and 36 months, i.e. three years, take its enforcement. The average amount of maintenance is then given CZK 2,532; this is the figure for 2015. I know a specific case where the maintenance debt is 700 thousand. The crown and the debt have been drawn for years. We all know from our practices, when citizens turn to us for help as MPs or senators, that, as with domestic violence, it is not possible to say that non-payers would only be recruited from socially weak families, that they are therefore people who simply have no maintenance to pay for it and cannot pay for it. Colleagues and colleagues, it is up to us not to let children suffer and ensure the enforcement of their rights, because that is the right of the child. These cases I have been discussing in many countries in Europe are being dealt with by just backed-up maintenance. Specific laws are in Belgium, Germany, Norway, Austria, Slovakia. The Institute of Advanced Maintenance is also in France and Switzerland. [[16.40 hours]] And now, if you don't mind, the principles of the proposal that I put forward for social democracy. Advanced maintenance will belong to beneficiaries who are not paid by a court established or approved maintenance, under clear, statutory conditions. This is mainly a condition of the existence of an executional title, on the basis of which the compulsory parent is not fulfilled at all or only partially fulfilled within the specified term. This means that maintenance is not paid by a parent who has custody, or is only partially paid for. I mean, not in full or just every other month or so. For the purposes of this Act, the compulsory parent is the one to whom a maintenance obligation has been laid down by the final judgment of the court or of the court approved by the parent's agreement. Another condition will be the fulfilment of the applicable income in the family, where the income of the entitled person and the jointly assessed persons must not exceed 2,7 times the life minimum of the applicant and the persons assessed together. The backup maintenance will amount to the amount determined according to the final decision of the court or the approved agreement, but not more than 1,2 times the minimum of the child's life, which corresponds to the average amount of the court-appointed maintenance in the Czech Republic. If the compulsory person fulfils the maintenance obligation only partially, the amount of the maintenance advance shall be fixed in such a way that the sum of the maintenance advance and partial payment imposed by the court is equal to the amount of maintenance imposed by the court, but at the same time not exceeding 1,2 times the amount of the entitled person's minimum of living. By granting an advance maintenance allowance, the right of the entitled person to a maintenance allowance shall go to the State, up to the amount of the advance maintenance provided. This, in turn, means that the debt will not be to the child, but the debt will be to the State. The maintenance claim, which has been transferred to the State, will subsequently be enforced by the regional branch of the Labour Office, applying for the enforcement of a decision or an execution proposal to recover the claim. The State will therefore itself recover the amounts of the advance maintenance provided from the debtor, using the existing enforcement instruments. Either a court order or an execution procedure. Where, within the framework of the enforcement of the decision already under way, it is found that the debtor does not have any assets and therefore nothing will be recovered for the maintenance to be backed up, the payment of the maintenance will be stopped. Therefore, the requirement for backup of the dose is strictly reflected. In view of the fact that according to the provisions of Section 196 of Act No.40/2009 Coll., the Criminal Code, it is true that anyone who fails to comply, even through negligence, with his legal obligation to nourish or provide for another for more than four months, commits the offence of neglect of compulsory nutrition, the regional branches of the Labour Office will give the authorities active in criminal proceedings an incentive to initiate the criminal prosecution of the obliged person. It can therefore be assumed that not only will the proposal help children now, but sooner or later it will also significantly improve payment morale in this area. I personally believe that. Finally, Members of Parliament, dear government, allow me to respond in advance to the objections that I have heard in many of the debates that we have already held on the subject of backed-up maintenance. Objection one. You're introducing another welfare benefit. From the point of view of the part of administration and anchoring in the legal system and from the point of view of the child certainly, we can consider it a special social benefit. However, this is not the case from the point of view of the state's expenditure. Ideally, all this money should be returned to the state. The deposit is paid to the child. A mandatory parent has to pay for it. Some countries even charge the compulsory parent, increase the claim against him for administrative costs, payment of advance maintenance and recovery. Our proposal does not yet contain this proposal. But I'll admit I wouldn't fight it at all. Another line we heard. Many compulsory parents simply have nothing to pay for. That's nonsense. If maintenance is provided, it always has something to pay for by a mandatory parent. We must realise that the amount of maintenance is set by the court, or the court confirms the parents' agreement. This means that the compulsory parent must always have something to pay for, because otherwise the court could not set him this maintenance and at the level he is, in such a way. Of course, when determining the amount of maintenance, the court also examines the amount of income and property situation of the compulsory parent. The next line we heard in those debates was that enforcement is small and that we want to take responsibility as a state of failure. I'm convinced otherwise. The State is forcing the compulsory parents to account for its debt. And it is the duty of the state, in my opinion, and not only mine, to ensure the enforcement of the law. Another counterargument I've heard will be abused. That's no way to take advantage. Of course, it is very easy for a mandatory parent to prove that he paid for the maintenance. Another argument was that we would burden the labour authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, and what else should happen and authorities care what they should do if they shouldn't help the most needy children who can't take care of themselves? Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, please do not now look for the flies on this proposal and do not say how it cannot be done. Think of the tens of thousands of kids who are suffering because Dad and Mom didn't send alimony. Try to imagine that at the post office, you'll find that the money you've been counting on because you live from paycheck to paycheck didn't come, and you have to tell your four-year-old kid, we're not going to buy milk and rolls today because the money isn't running out. I didn't make up this story. That's what I saw at one of the Prague Post Offices. I therefore ask you, colleagues, to support the motion and release of this proposal for second reading. And for myself and for my colleagues and colleagues, for which I am putting it at this moment, from social democracy, I say that we are ready to talk about the parameters of this proposal. That we are prepared to adapt this proposal to help children improve the lives of incomplete families and to be acceptable to you. Thank you in advance for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-017-036.u3	Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur, Mrs Radka Maxová, for her first reading, to take the floor. Let me also read Mr Jaroslav Bžoch's apology, who apologizes between 17 and 19 o'clock for work reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-017-036.u4	Thank you, Mr President. It is not quite easy for me to talk about this press, perhaps also about the subsequent, because there are and visas to combine the debate, the debate on these two prints, although they have different parameters. However, I must say that the fundamental rules for the payment of the advance maintenance have been communicated by the petitioner. And I'll only react briefly. The error is clearly in the system, we all know that. I don't fully understand the error in the system, because, as we well know, not paying maintenance is the second most common crime. And I'm asking how our society could even allow this to be publicly respected when someone doesn't pay alimony. I don't understand this system error. Then, of course, there's a mistake in people. And I understand that mistake. Weakness, fear, day-to-day experience. And the reason I'm talking about these people is because I understand that it's not easy to file criminal charges or executions on actually the father or mother of my children or our children. That's what I think is a much bigger problem than system error. However, there is a need to talk about it. There has been a lot of talk about this in the last parliamentary term, both in the coalition and behind the scenes. Two very good amendments on maintenance have been made. I hereby thank Minister Pelikán, and I hope that even more amendments will be made, in the system before we deal with backup or replacement maintenance. It is necessary to work on it, and the solutions are, but of course they will take longer than the introduction, perhaps, of the new social benefits that I, confess, and most of you know it, I am not a follower. Mrs Gajdůškovášková mentioned some things here that I, too, have said, and I agree with some, not some. But I believe we'll get to that during the debate. Personally, I don't know how it's gonna work out, actually, after two months, I'm gonna come to the employment office and I'm gonna ask for a replacement, or... the replacement is after a long time - and I'm going to want backup maintenance. How does this office somehow give me the backed-up maintenance? 'Cause I have a court decision, I'm gonna carry bank statements, I'm gonna wear an affidavit... Those are things that aren't specified there, but maybe the petitioner will tell me how they're supposed to do it, because I haven't read it anywhere. What I'm very sorry about is that it's going to be the employment office. In this proposal, it is specifically every quarter of a year. This means that we have only burdened the labor authorities with child support - quarterly submission of various documents - and we have not strengthened them staffingly, because they are not people, and now we are going to give them backup maintenance on a quarterly basis to address this system. In this case only one year's documentation is better the proposal of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia on replacement maintenance. What I don't like is that, in fact, all these responsibilities are going to really go to the state. Extortion. Mrs. Gajdůškovášková here spoke of the fact that they are primarily concerned with the enforcement of the benefits that are there. But if you look at the reason message, there are numbers. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs reports 10 per cent. I think it was three to six years ago. The executor's chamber states enforcement in this case of 20 per cent. So the state, if we stick to 20 percent, we lose 80 percent of actually unpaid maintenance. When you look at the explanatory report on the impact of finance, with different sums, it means the debt, the information system, the new workers at the employment office, it's a billion. But that's a really hypothetical number, because I haven't read anywhere who's actually gonna be able to ask for the backed-up maintenance. Does that mean a year backwards, two years, or will all those who can ask for a year back from the time of non-payment of maintenance? Does that mean, in the sum of the tens of years now, that's 14, if not 15 billion? Honestly, I can't even imagine. These are fundamental mistakes for me, both of them. And I think that if this is not clearly clarified, actually, who it applies to, then the press can't somehow be dealt with in the third, second, committees. Because that is essential information - the impact on the budget. Now, of course, it's just a theoretical number. The government has... not yet. There is still basically a report from the Ministry of Justice, where 8 157 were convicted of the crime of non-payment of maintenance, neglect of compulsory nutrition, in 2015. This is considered a number where basically no prisoner pays alimony. But it's not like that. The prisoners who work have their paycheck split by percentage. And if he's working, he's paying 30% off to a maintenance debt. If he's not working, it's obvious he's not from what. Let's talk about raising 30 percent of the prisoners to 50 to 60 so that the children don't suffer. That's what I think is a change in the system. Not the introduction of another dose. Of course, at its meeting on 11 April 2018, the government gave a neutral position, for some political reasons, of course. But I think that these are not only political reasons that the government wants to deal very intensively with the issue of not paying maintenance, debt recovery. This debate is extremely necessary. It is necessary on a professional basis of all the systems involved in enforcement, that is, the Ministry of Labour - or maintenance. Ministry of Labour, Ministry of Justice, Enforcement, Bar Association, Probation and Mediation Service. After all, we managed to compete with electronic bracelets during the last term of office. As you know, the first test also applies to non-nutrients. About 257 electronic bracelets, and of that, most of them go to those inpayments or inpayments to be gender-balanced. That's delicious, isn't it? Let's make their lives harder for them when they make life difficult for children and those other parents with whom they are often in dispute. That's the way I'd go. And Mr. Pelikán also went along, and I am grateful to him for that, because at first I was the laughingstock of wanting to give my child supporters electronic bracelets. But it worked. And I believe it will work if their life gets harder. The government has some reservations about the press, backed up maintenance, and they are completely justified. I'll read them here. It's the same as the replacement maintenance that's gonna go next. The government does not consider it factually right to support, from public funds, in a different way, families that are objectively in the same social situation or to favour families that are in an adverse social situation due to the failure to pay maintenance. The government is of the opinion that the adverse social situation of families with carefree children should rather be addressed through the already existing benefits for families with children, which will be revised on the basis of the conclusions of the working group set up for this purpose by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Let's talk about why unpaid maintenance counts on income when it's not really in the income, even if it's measured. This, too, would be one way to help single mothers or fathers who are not paid maintenance. Don't count it into income because they don't really have it. And they may even have less on welfare benefits, such as housing allowance or child allowance. I think these are changes that could help those parents. [[17,00 hours]] Furthermore, the government is of the opinion that the introduction of backed-up maintenance will not solve the problem of incomplete families with insufficient income, since the proposed solution focuses only on the consequences and not on the causes of the difficult situation of a parent who cares for an unaided child to whom the maintenance obligation is not fulfilled. The Government therefore considers that it is necessary to focus primarily on the primary adjustment of the maintenance obligation and to ensure its enforcement, as well as the self-application of the law by the supervisory courts in practice and the conditions for their activities, including the predictability of decisions on maintenance matters. Many of you know that there has been quite a debate over maintenance in the last term, about the tools, how to actually improve the system before and when paying maintenance, that we have had fun, and it was also an amendment, about the transfer of the claim to maintenance, but it was not fine-tuned which institutions could help these parents if they had purchased the claim from them in some way. It works in certain countries. There is a possibility, and believe that some parents would take advantage of it. Of course, for clearly set rules so those families don't lose on it. There are a number of unsolved questions in this bill that can complicate the implementation of the law in practice. It may be problematic to demonstrate that the compulsory person does not fulfil the maintenance obligations for two months, given that the application does not require the lodging of an action for failure to comply with the maintenance obligation. In view of this, and I have talked about this, it would be worth considering the amount of minimum performance for the Czech Labour Office if the maintenance obligation is only partially fulfilled. Payment of backed-up maintenance once a quarter if the maintenance would be paid only partially. Quite inadequately, the parliamentary proposal regulates the period of entry into force with regard to the length of the legislative process and the extent to which the labour authorities, the Labour Ministry, would have to create a new system for paying back-up maintenance and, of course, recruit new workers. That's probably all for me now. Of course, I will closely monitor the debate, and then I will respond from my reporting point to the debate. I'm just saying, let's talk about it. The problem is a large, 14-billion-dollar maintenance debt in decades is also large, and if the House would, of course, express its support to refer it to the committee, I believe that the debate in the committee will be quite intense and that if the rules are set, they will really have to be after political agreement. I would then like to propose an extension to the committee meetings for 20 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-017-036.u5	Thank you. We have a few more excuses. The Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes from 16.00 to the end of the House's meeting, Mr Přemysl Mališ apologizes from 17.00 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Robert králíček apologises between 17.00 and 19.00 for reasons of work, Mr Marek Výborný at 16.30 and 18.00 for reasons of work. I am opening a general debate in which there are several applications. First up is Mr Jan Bauer. [[A deal off the mic.]] Yes? I did not open the debate, but I will allow the appellant to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-017-036.u6	I'm sorry, I felt that it wasn't my role, but it was someone else's, but we had a preliminarily agreed that we would propose to merge the debate with both a substitute maintenance and a backed-up maintenance, because the arguments will probably be repeated, so if I can do that now, I suggest we merge the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-017-036.u7	I don't think it's necessary to vote on this. I'm going to interrupt this point, I'm going to open the next point, and that's the point number.
