ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u1	11. Members Petr Fiala's proposal, Zbyněk Stanjura, Ivan Adamec and others for the issue of the Act repealing Law No. 112/2016 Coll., on Electronic Recording of Sales, as amended and No. 113/2016 Sb., which amends certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Registration of Sales /Departmental Printing 23/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 We are in the first reading and the applicants ask for a procedure under § 90 para. 3. I would therefore like to point out that we would have to decide on a possible continuation. But before I give the floor to the representatives of the plaintiffs, to whom Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is - I will ask him to take his seat at the rapporteur's table - I note that it has been delivered on behalf of the ANO Charter, in which the veto is raised on this point, and there are more signatures there than the Rules of Procedure Act envisages. [[18.00 hours]] Thus, the procedure under Section 90 para. 2 we cannot use, so we will proceed in a classic way in all three readings. At the same time, I assume that, given the apologies for Mr Stanislav Juránek, the report will be presented by the President of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá. You received the Government's opinion on press 23/1 in due time under the Rules of Procedure. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I now ask Mr Zbyněk Stanjura to take the floor as a representative of the plaintiffs. - Don't say anything yet, because I will ask the House again for peace. I ask my colleagues on both sides of the Chamber to discuss issues that do not concern the press no. 23, transferred to the foyer. Thank you. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, I will start with an evaluation first. ODS and YES program match zero so far. Today three laws from the ODS workshop, YES three times against. That's just so we know. While the program matches YES and KSČM today 100 percent. We've got some intermediate results, we're doing a fourth try today, we're really trying, and somehow the YES movement can't prove a program match. I brought with me a few papers, a study on the shadow economy. That was argued by the petitioners when we discussed it, and it was a hit of the last term. I think we agree on that. Then we got her with problems, blacked out at first, but then we got her - the specification of the EET project. [[He's showing the material.]] Then I have a government bill here so we know what the government came up with. [[He's showing the material.]] The accompanying bill. And then I have the Constitutional Court's position here. [[He's showing the material.]] And I'll only be quoting from each one for a moment, don't worry. If I wanted to read the whole thing, we wouldn't be done this week. The shadow economy is part of the everyday life of millions of people in the Czech Republic, although many of them have no idea. According to a broader definition, three areas can be distinguished within the shadow economy: a hidden, illegal and informal economy. I am talking about the shadow economy because it was one of the main arguments of the petitioners. I think we agree across the political spectrum that this is undesirable and that we need to fight it. But what is important about the study on the shadow economy in the countries of the European Union and also in the Czech Republic? The causes of the shadow economy may vary in particular countries and regions, but in most cases they are taxation and regulation, which have a major share in the development of shadow activities. The higher the tax costs, whether in terms of the level of taxation or the complexity of the tax system, and the more complicated and restrictive the regulation in the country and industry is, the more expensive it is for companies to hire and stay in the official economy. I think we know that with common sense. The higher taxes, the higher the regulation, the more complicated the system, it all creates an environment for it to work, and unfortunately, I say the shadow economy. I do not want to repeat the arguments that have been raised here, and unfortunately for nothing, during the last parliamentary term. I must say that our submission to the Constitutional Court was very successful, although the government praised that the law had not been abolished as a whole. But let's see what the Constitutional Court has decided, what we said here and how the government argued. From the beginning, we said that a tool for the state to monitor cash operations was pointless for paying with a card. A hundred times it sounded from the microphone until it had to be abolished by the Constitutional Court. Many colleagues here spoke of the absurdity of the EET for e-shops until it had to be abolished by the Constitutional Court. We were talking about the I.D., which is actually equal to the birth number of the tradesmen, we said it a hundred times here, until the Constitutional Court had to cancel. The Constitutional Court also annulled or postponed, depending on the interpretation, we say canceled, the ANO movement says postponed, the third and fourth waves. Let me just remind you of the estimates of the number of entrepreneurs involved in each stage. In the first stage, the Ministry of Finance was in principle correct. It was roughly the same, I think it was estimated 50 thousand, the number was very similar. In the second phase, which has been valid for a long time, the Ministry of Finance estimated that up to 300 000 will be involved. subjects. None of this happened, the number is significantly lower. In the study I was showing here, the authors estimated that in the first stage it would be 10 per cent, that's about 50 thousand, in the second 40 per cent and half in the third, then the House on the third and fourth waves. [[Nesroz.]] So the Constitutional Court, according to estimates by the Ministry of Finance and then government, protected half of potential forced EET users, and that's good news. At that point, there are words on the water about the settlement of the business environment. It didn't work out, comrades. Is it? The current situation represents an equal business environment? I don't think so. There are selected activities where entrepreneurs must have EETs and selected activities where they may not have EETs. Our proposal is aimed at settling the business environment because it says: no one will be burdened with EET. And then those are equal terms. Everyone or nobody, that's a level playing field. We remember talking about exceptions. They're not possible. There won't be any exceptions, and then we hear ideas: carp salesmen don't, Christmas tree vendors do. And I could go on, but there's no point. Because I really liked the dissenting position of the five constitutional judges, so I'm going to quote from them because I think they formulated it, as we see it, and not just us, as civil democrats. Allow me, I may be a little longer now, but I really think it's worth it, I don't know if you've all read it. The words belong to five constitutional judges, namely Vojtěch Šimíček, Jaromír Jirs, Tomáš Lichovník, Kateřina Šimáčková and David Uhlíř. Aside from the introduction from my favorite series Sure, Minister, or Sure, Prime Minister, who actually brought about the situation faced by the Constitutional Court when it judged our proposal to abolish the entire bill. Constitutional judges write: Being a businessman is not easy at all. It takes a bit of personal courage and a lot of patience, because business-related duties are huge quantities across the entire legal order: in the area of occupational safety, social security, personalistics, hygiene and, of course, taxes. The State, which, according to the case law of the Constitutional Court, is the result of a social contract, should therefore always weigh well in the introduction of any new obligation which makes it difficult for entrepreneurs to carry out their activities. In this introduction, the legislator should very carefully assess whether this additional obligation is indeed necessary and whether it is not unduly aggravating the business environment. These measures should not be considered in isolation, but in the context of restrictions already in place. Lapidally speaking, the state should ask itself whether it is not the proverbial last drop, after which the imaginary cup overflows. [[18.10 hours]] We believe that fiscal discipline is not always the greatest value and legitimate objective. Sometimes the interest in it should be somewhat retreating to preserve a strong layer of active, creative, self-confident and courageous people who risk their existence in business rather than being employed. And these people, especially the smaller ones among them, the people with turnover - which is not the same as profit - with turnover, for example. in units of millions of crowns a year, the state should make the administration associated with business as much as possible easier, even at the cost of a smaller tax return, which is marginal anyway. The economy will be robust and will survive hard times better if there is sufficient diversity, and self-sufficient, to help from a common independent business layer will remain even in peripheral areas. - There were quotes, those marginal areas. - Pubs and other establishments in small villages, small and separate businessmen, business pensioners, enterprising students, etc. For many of these people, however, EET is the proverbial last drop that drives them out of business, or drives them into a grey economy - so I also reminded at the beginning of what is the grey economy and what is causing the grey economy - which will make way for their big competitors towards a corporate, large business and subsidy state. This creates a small hyperrich elite and then only worse or better paid employees. We can thus get into conflict with the material nature of democracy, which is possible only in a society formed largely by a layer of really free, independent people. The right to conduct business is derived from the right to own and dispose of property freely. However, it also has to do with the ban on forced labour. Experience from the previous totalitarian regime testifies to this. The Communist regime not only allowed business but punished it directly. The combination of acts of speculation, illicit enterprise and abstinence forced everyone to be employed. She forced him to be addicted to almost one employer, and to the state. A society in which the vast majority of citizens depend on one or several employers for their livelihood is not a free society. It is therefore the right to enter into one of the fundamental rights to create conditions for a society of free citizens. Respect for freedom must always come first. However, the declared EET target does not match this. The next part states in this dissenting opinion: Before the introduction of the EET, it should therefore have become honest and very thorough to examine whether all the less invasive and harassing options available to it to control the correct and fair collection of taxes have been exhausted. However, none of this has happened in the present case, although the introduction of an EET constitutes an additional administrative and financial burden on the business activities of entrepreneurs. Sticking to the mere fact that the introduction of the EET is very likely to lead to an increase in tax collection, and therefore it will also stand up from a constitutionally legal point of view, is very dangerous and exploitable. As much as we do not deny - I am really shortening it so that I do not read the whole thing, I recommend that everyone read the whole thing - no matter how much we do not deny that the introduction of an EET can actually result in greater tax returns than before, it cannot be expected that this will be done to a greater extent in relation to the total tax revenues of the State. - And try to answer yourself in the spirit, colleagues, whether you know exactly or roughly exactly what the total tax revenue of the state is, and then compare it to that data which I don't think the Treasury has shown, which boasts that tax collection has increased by 5 billion. And I'm using a number that the Treasury is using. In line with the position of the appellants, which was a group of Members from the ODS and from the TOP 09, we believe that the introduction of the EET represents a very significant intervention in the rights of the entities concerned. As mentioned above, this is primarily about ownership, the right to freely engage in business, equality and intervention in information self-determination. The introduction of the EET represents a new financial cost for every entrepreneur. These costs are not one-off but recurring. For small entrepreneurs, this is not just about immediate financial costs, but about the burden on the entrepreneur of other worries, which he already has over his head today. It is also not possible to overlook the fact that the law - the law as a class - has been liquidated especially by older smaller entrepreneurs without computer knowledge and online connection. The majority of the Constitutional Court's position that they are to accept that they are victims of the fourth industrial revolution, as stated in paragraph 79 of the finding, then sounds quite insensitive in this context. - I'm almost done, don't worry, EET supporters. Another risk of the EET system lies in its misuse. Through this system, there is a concentration of sensitive business information in one place. Although it cannot be based on the a prior premise of the dishonesty of the state administration, at the same time, it cannot be assumed that concentrated data on tax payers will never be abused in any way. In conclusion, the five constitutional judges state that, for all the above reasons, we consider the contested law to be unconstitutional, and we think that this proposal should have been fully granted. If the Constitutional Court intends to tolerate, by reference to a rationality test, even so strong and undiferenced interventions in the business environment and in the fundamental rights of tax entities, the question is what role the Constitutional Court intends to continue to play in the system. From our point of view, these are the key passages from the dissent position. At the beginning, I said what most constitutional judges had cancelled, the individual parts I was talking about, and I also reminded them that the opposition was pointing out these risks unnecessarily and in vain and had to be abolished by the Constitutional Court. It is precisely because we should be looking for equality in the business environment, and apart from the fact that we should cancel subsidies, that we should contribute to the fact that even EET will only concern someone. (?) That is the case at this point, and we propose that we abolish the law as a whole, given the dissenting position of the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u3	I thank the plaintiff's representatives and I have a few.... I will ask Mrs Vostroa to wait. First, I'll read the apologies. From this afternoon's meeting, Mrs Nevludová apologizes until the end of the hearing... 8.15. So did Mrs Levová, Mrs Karla Maříková and Mr Karel Podal by the end of the meeting and Mr Jiří Běhounek also by the end of the day, as well as Mr Radek Rozvoral. Since we are at first reading, according to the Rules of Procedure, I must have approved the amendment of the rapporteur because it is subject to approval at first reading of the Chamber of Deputies. Before I do so, Mrs Mauritzová asked for a factual comment on the tape, and I will give her my word. It will not be anything that challenges the vote, as it has informed me, but, of course, the change in the electronic record of the vote is important for the tapestry. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, I would just like to mention for the record that I have a vote No. 44 mistakenly stated that I voted yes, and I voted no. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u5	Thank you. Now according to Section 90 et seq. I shall ask the Act on Rules of Procedure to agree to the amendment of the rapporteur in vote number 45. So who agrees that Mrs Vostrá should be rapporteur instead of Mr Juránek. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 45. Of the 163 for 124 present, against no one. The motion was accepted. The rapporteur for the first reading of this bill will be Mrs Miloslava Vostrá. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Members of the government, colleagues, the aim of this bill, as has already been said here, is to abolish the electronic record-keeping system without compensation. However, the fact is that, despite the shortcomings and in some respects the uncertainties of the existing EET Act, and I think that a colleague here has already mentioned this and many colleagues mentioned this in the last parliamentary term when approving this Act, however, at this time it is more or less a concept generally accepted. It is true that the shortcomings of this law have often been confirmed in practice. I'd just say, unfortunately, from my point of view. I presume that they will also be the subject of a government-designed amendment to the EET Act, which will also respond to the recent decision of the Constitutional Court here to repeal certain parts of the existing law. I would just like to say that the fact that the Constitutional Court has not, in fact, abolished the EET Act as a whole leads me to make a motion here to reject this press at first reading. I agree with the Government's position on all the points mentioned there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open the debate. With priority rights, the Minister of Finance is reporting to the debate, and I will give her the floor immediately. Please. Madam Secretary of Finance of the Czech Republic Alena Schillerová has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly give you a few words, because many have been said here, and I think it requires my response. We have been through more than a year of the e-booking of sales law. This law went through a huge Martyria before its approval. He was constantly criticized and actually subjected to it until today. We constantly disprove a number of myths, answer various questions, run a huge campaign and, of course, continue to do so because people are often confused. But let's have a few facts, and then I'd like to stop at the interpretation of the Constitutional Court's decision, which I would like to interpret from my point of view. Well, it's different than it was interpreted a while ago. What is the basic purpose of the Sales Recording Act, to be exact? Fixing the business environment. Seventeen countries of the European Union have some form of sales log, whether it's a register register, whether it's this form of sales log or a combination of both. In neighbouring Slovakia, for example, register cash registers have more than 20 years and after the last visit where we were, so they are considering establishing a record of sales, we are starting to work together on this. And other countries are joining. They came from Ukraine, they want to introduce electronic records of sales. The basic point is precisely the settlement of the business environment, which is why they support the record of sales of all major business associations and chambers. I'm dealing with everyone. The last time I had a meeting with them last week, when we discussed the amendment to the Sales Registration Act, be it the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, which covers 260,000 business entities, the Trade and Tourism Union, representing 6 000 entrepreneurs with 500,000 jobs, the Association of Czech Traditional Trade, representing 7 000 retail food stores, the Association of Restaurants and Hotels, which covers 1,385 hotels, pensions and restaurants, the Forum of Tourism, the Chamber of Commerce. I can't think of any other major business union or chamber. I dealt with them last week, we talked about the Constitutional Court's decision, we talked about the proposed amendment, and there was clear support from their side for the record of sales, and it was said from their side that the worst thing could happen if we stopped halfway now, that is, basically, they stayed only with the first and second waves. And now for my interpretation of the Constitutional Court's decision. I do not question the right of five judges of the Constitutional Court to their opposing opinion, which has been presented here. That is, without a doubt, their right and it is indisputable. What is important, however, is how the majority voted and what decision the Constitutional Court finally adopted. And I interpret it very positively. He acknowledged the electronic recordkeeping of sales as a legitimate tool in the fight against tax evasion and as a legitimate opportunity to verify this form of taxpayers' tax liability. Yes, I admit he's abolished certain provisions. We have also considered their modification in the amendment that we have been preparing since the autumn of last year. But I strongly deny that he canceled phase three and stage four. The third and fourth stages have been postponed until all exceptions have been definitively decided. It is important to remember that the law was written in conditions where there was no experience. There was some kind of attempt in 2006 with the Registration Treasury Act, it was postponed for so long, until in fact this law was abolished and de facto never came into effect. We had no historical experience. Although we were inspired in Croatia, we did not choose this path without exceptions. We chose our Czech path and it was only an inspiration. This is the right step, because 60% of the country's population, according to an independent KPMG study, recognizes the problem of the grey economy. The Czech Statistical Office - and I repeated it countless times - calculated the amount of the grey economy to 160 billion in 2013. So it's a problem. It's a problem. It is not only a problem of income taxes, which, of course, affects the sales registration law, but it is also a problem of VAT, where a control report tool was involved, but that is not what we are talking about today. Tax revenue is being questioned. I don't know what's coming from when I keep hearing that we're manipulating these numbers, that the numbers aren't right. The numbers are in the accounts of the Czech National Bank. We've collected VAT by 32 billion. more than 32 billion. more year-on-year. On that, of course, we admit, he's 20 billion. the share of economic growth, the rest is the share of conventional measures introduced by the Ministry of Finance, respectively. The last government. Control report and EET. EET participates in this, on the basis of tax analyses carried out by the Financial Administration is involved in the amount of 5.2 billion, and we have also reduced VAT on certain commodities, otherwise of course there would be more. We estimated the expected return for 2017 - we make these estimates conservatively - at 4.3, so we're at 5.2 and add 0.8 billion. for reduced VAT, and we'd be at 6 billion. In my opinion, this is not a bad result. But a much better outcome is the settlement of a competitive environment. The fact that so many entrepreneurs support us is that they write to us that they talk to us. Unfortunately, they do not receive such a media space, and thus a distorted picture of the Sales Recording Act is created. So, of course, I reject the interpretations that have been made here. I refuse that it is simply an instrument of administrative complexity. We have introduced the cheapest option that could exist. We could've gone through the registration cash register, we didn't want to, just because it's expensive. It's because it would be very difficult to operate, it's vulnerable. Records of sales, today the cashier can buy up to CZK 3,000, the easiest. We've introduced a tax discount for businessmen. We have introduced a reduced rate of VAT on catering services, which, of course, concerned the first stage, because we wanted to favour this first stage by starting to be the first. [[18.30 hours]] Of course, we are forced to respond to the Constitutional Court's decision. We have an almost ready amendment to the Sales Recording Act. Last week, we discussed it with all the representatives of the business unions and chambers, as I mentioned to you here. The most fundamental debate was basically setting exceptions for the smallest entrepreneurs, for individuals, where we have compiled about three variants. The option we are now developing has been preferred, and we assume that this amendment will be submitted to the government at the latest at the turn of February and March. Therefore, we will not only comply with the Constitutional Court from the point of view of exceptions, but also from the point of view of the provisions that they have repealed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u9	I thank the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová for her speech in the debate. With priority rights before colleague Bauer, the representative of the petitioner will speak, but with priority rights as chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u10	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary taped me, I don't know whether it was intentional or not, but that's okay. First of all, you were contradicting. I don't like it. First, in the first part of the speech, he says - it's in 17 European countries, let's learn. And then he says - there are mistakes, it's a whole new thing, we had nowhere to learn. So it's either first or second. Either we have experience from 17 European countries, there they have certainly removed the mistakes and we did not have to do them. And now I'm going to read a paragraph, Madam Secretary, which I didn't read for the first time, which is related to what you're saying. And I have to read the whole thing: "Before the introduction of the EET, the state should therefore have been honest and very thorough in examining whether all the less invasive and harassing options available to it to control the correct and fair collection of taxes have been exhausted. However, none of this has happened in the present case, although the introduction of an EET clearly constitutes an additional administrative and financial burden on the business activities of entrepreneurs. Sticking to the mere fact that the introduction of the EET is very likely to lead to an increase in tax collection, and therefore it will also stand up from a constitutionally legal point of view, is very dangerous and exploitable. [[This is a measure that will stand up to the'sensibility test']] The introduction of the EET under the publicly presented political impression that no one pays taxes and therefore it is appropriate to tighten their selection, namely, we consider it equally unreasonable and unfair in our consequences as leaving the whole class after school just because a single pupil disturbed in class. [[Even empirically unsubstantiated!]] Unfortunately, this entry point is a fundamental philosophy of the contested law and is not addressed by the removal of only a few of its most vicious interventions in privacy and freedom of business." The language of constitutional judges is so nice. And that's actually what we're saying. You've made all the businessmen look bad, and they have to develop online. This is the basic philosophy that this dissenting position disagrees with. I, Madam Secretary, said 5.5 billion that you were stating, I didn't question it, we just didn't have the materials available, I like to read them, you say 5.2, maybe 6, even 6. But these judges are still right. It is a marginal part of the state's total tax revenue. And if we take it - I've already married it, I'm sorry, the study on the shadow economy, and the secretary certainly knows it, because it's from the Treasury - which is the key field where the grey economy most thrives? [[He's going next door to his seat at the news table.]] [[shows]] I'll ask the secretary to answer me. In what field of economic activity is the grey economy the most growing? First question. And the second question - is the EET already in place in this field? I'll wait for an answer if we can argue that way. I honestly said that the interpretation of the Constitutional Court finding is different, that we say that it is a distinct intervention and a sensible loss to the government, and the Minister says that they actually won because it was not cancelled as a whole. Well, that's true, but we have a chance to finish what the Constitutional Court started and cancel it as a whole. Because what sort of business environment are we talking about in January 2018, Madam Secretary? All entrepreneurs have the same duty, don't they? You straightened out the business environment, didn't you? Were you against exceptions? They were. Are you in favour of exceptions? You are. So how can equality be when there are exceptions? And the third, the fourth wave canceled, it's not postponed. That's important. It's not. Whether it's postponed forever or for a year or two, we don't know. Of course, we will decide that during this parliamentary term. I hope forever that you won't be able to find most of this for the third and fourth waves. But every day that the first and second waves apply, you prove that there is no equality in the business environment. I know the answer to why you didn't do it at once. Then tell us on the microphone. If you're lashing out at the equality of the business environment, why didn't you bring it in at once for everyone? That's straight. I don't agree. We say equality is that no one has it, and you've already divided those entrepreneurs into four groups and the third and fourth groups have been abolished by the Constitutional Court. And according to your study, your background is 50 percent of those that were supposed to be involved. How is it that they were so wrong to estimate the number of entrepreneurs involved in the second wave? Where's the 300,000 you estimated? It's not. Then explain it to us. If all the data given in those studies, in the explanatory memorandum, in the underlying materials are as flawed as a simple estimate of entrepreneurs who will engage or have to engage, then how are we supposed to trust those numbers? I think that's enough questions at this point. Then, following any answers from the Minister, I would respond to the next part of her speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u11	Thank you. There are two factual points. First President Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u12	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I quite study the vote of the separatist, i.e. the special position of the judges of the Constitutional Court, and I am sorry when a judge of the Constitutional Court, I would say, dares on a political level and moves from a legal level. It's not true that everyone had to work, that there was a duty to work here. There has never been a trial against the Czechoslovak state since 1945 about perhaps having forced labor. The International Labour Organisation did nothing of the sort because the Labour Code after 1965 contained provisions that there is no obligation to work, that it must have a legal source of livelihood. We've always taught it. And I knew at least two such people in České Budějovice, who had over a million crowns of four percent interest in the then Czechoslovak state savings bank, and they had legal income and did not have to go to work. And I'm sorry that a constitutional judge does that. If a politician does it because he wants to make a false argument, I understand. But a constitutional judge shouldn't do that. So, my colleague, the representative of the petitioner through the President, this was not entirely fair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u13	Another factual point, Mr Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u14	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, co-workers, I would just like to respond a little bit to my colleague Stanjura about how she contradicted the Minister. She didn't argue. She said that 17 states in Europe have established a record of sales and that we couldn't learn anywhere properly because we were running an electronic record of sales. That's what it was meant to be. And I think that if there are currently 17 countries that have recognised the need to record sales, it doesn't matter how, I think, the e-recording is the mildest, the safest for businessmen, it probably has logic, regardless of the fact that other countries, whether it's Austria, whether it's Germany, are considering introducing this record of sales. And as for the exceptions. I'm just going to underline the line I said a couple of times here, and that's Sweden. In 2010, this introduced a record of sales with exceptions for fish dealers and for marketers, and for two years, they basically included these excluded entrepreneurs in the sales log, with the fact that if it had any meaning, it really had to be complete in the segment and in the area. So I think that if there is a complete proposal on the way for an adjustment and for some sort of modification of the EET itself, which is being prepared by the Ministry of Finance, and it will basically be here during March, I think that there is room for possible problems, errors and criticisms of the Constitutional Court to work on. But in no way would I want this bill to be abolished as such, because I think it makes a great deal of sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u15	Another factual point - Mr Fridrich. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to share with you the practical experience of implementing the EET. I own a small company, i.e. exactly what my colleague Stanjura was talking about, and the sales were approximately CZK 7,240 000 last year. We served 22 700 customers. In all this time, there wasn't a slightest problem. The cost of introduction, it's all easy to verify, was CZK 9,400. On the other hand, my accountant commends one thing, and that is that on the tax portal the next day he can check all the items and agree to the payments that have gone through, with what was the experience. In view of my previous profession, I would like to mention the experience of restaurants in small villages, which are also very often mentioned. I'm from a village that has 200 inhabitants. There's a lot of very small pubs in the neighborhood, and none of my friends have complained about it. Many of them even introduced the EET themselves without the help of IT. None of the pubs I know have gone bankrupt because of the EET. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u17	Mr Bauer is enrolled in the general debate. After that, Mr Ferjenčík will appear. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today it is difficult for anyone to come up with a new groundbreaking argument that would convince those of you who supported the introduction of the EET about its harmfulness and negative impact on business in the Czech Republic. However, I will allow myself to perform briefly. I consider it to be extremely good news that today, the possibility of the EET being completely abolished is being opened up. It is appropriate to recall or repeat some arguments for order. But I'd like to look into the past first. Although I was not a Member in the last parliamentary term, I know that the government parties and finance minister Andrej Babiš repeatedly blamed opposition parties, including the ODS, for obstructing and blocking the House, at the time of the adoption of the EET Act. já the contrary, I already appreciated my colleagues very much for the precision with which they tried to argue and warn against the impact of measures that the government pushed for without compelling reasons. At that time, the ODS MEPs clearly warned that the newly introduced surveillance system would probably not work, it would not bring any miraculous benefits to the state register and, moreover, its unpreparedness and demands would complicate business for thousands of active people in the Czech Republic. I think we have not only warned, but we have also tried to reduce the hardness of certain specific provisions by means of amendments. Yet the government and, above all, the Treasury have pushed the law into force. They chose scapegoats in the form of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and tried to demonstrate their efforts to improve tax collection and to fight dishonesty rather than to come up with elaborate and comprehensive proposals for changes in the tax system itself. In my opinion, today clearly shows that the government was wrong and the opposition was right. The system of electronic sales records has been challenged by the Constitutional Court as well, it has already been said here today. The Constitutional Judges, who see in the EET an unconstitutional intervention in the freedom of business, eventually remained in a minority, but let them be honored, but the Constitutional Court expressed itself on several fundamental points against the approved plans of the then coalition of ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL and named the serious errors which these parties made in the EET Act and which are contrary to the legal and constitutional rules of our country. It is clear from this that those who considered the introduction of the EET to be unthinkable and, by their very nature, questionable and unnecessary measures were not wrong. If I were sitting in the Chamber of Deputies at the time of the approval of the EET, I would be most upset about the following things. The whole EET system was presented as a means of balancing the market environment and responding to tax fraud. But instead of making the state's control system more effective and able to prosecute obvious tax frauds, he decided to spy on everyone without distinction. In doing so, he focused on the smallest ones who have neither the resources nor the personnel resources to manage other unnecessary administration and demands by the financial authorities. The state chose the smallest ones, knowing that relatively larger tax evasion takes place in completely different sectors. I cannot mention the then Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs Hornochová, who even publicly admitted that the state is beginning with the EET regulation in particular in restaurants, because they are well controlled and there is a small number of them, she said literally at that time. At the same time, I was extremely upset by the unfair approach of the state, which the selected entrepreneurs had even further caste into individual subgroups. Without obvious reasons and support in some facts some had to introduce EET now, some have to come to some only later, some at all. The authors of the EET even castrated the types of business within one field. This is again an example of restaurants that started with EET, and food stalls that didn't have to. It bothered me that the government imposed all its responsibilities and responsibilities on entrepreneurs, but it absolutely did not admit that even financial officials could be wrong. Entrepreneurs have found themselves under the permanent threat of non-negligible sanctions. And what bothered me most was the fact that the government passed the EET law without considering the impact it would have on real life, especially outside cities in the countryside. I don't need sophisticated statistics to see more grocery stores or pubs that went to the local beer party in the country. In principle, I do not consider it essential whether the EET or other measures of an increasingly powerful state were responsible for this. The fact is that instead of supporting the rural EET, it contributed to its further decline and to the less comfortable people living on it. The electronic record of sales did not only harm entrepreneurs and businessmen themselves, but first - and this must not be forgotten - ordinary citizens and customers who use the services of these entrepreneurs. KDU-ČSL colleagues will forgive me, but so were they who helped enforce the EET. And it made me very sad when I read a few months after the launch of the EET in the paper how the Department of Agriculture plans to send hundreds of million-dollar subsidies to run rural businesses and support rural business. It is incredible for me if the state causes a problem within one year and in the same year wants to put it out in other and more expensive ways. Nevertheless, it is not public opinion that forces itself to change the EET, but the Constitutional Court's decision already mentioned. As we know, the Ministry of Finance has already responded by promising to send an amendment to the Chamber of Deputies, which should correct the biggest missteps in the EET Act. Even now it is clear that whatever the government amendment looks like, it will not change the essence of the EET itself, but it will only set new injustices and dividing lines between individual groups of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. On the other hand, we now have a clean and understandable solution on the table that will abolish a dysfunctional and bad tax control tool. The approval of this proposal does not mean that we would stop addressing the problem of tax evasion. But we can send out a signal to citizens that we know how to do it, or you can learn from your mistakes, and that you all care about making such control work without unnecessary repression and distrust of most of those who do business honestly. I believe that consensus can be reached on such essential matters without anyone feeling defeated or a clear winner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u19	President Faltýnek is registered with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u20	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Let me make a procedural proposal, but it is in agreement with the majority of club presidents and with the promise of the petitioners who have some important negotiations in the ODS today, so that we can act in a procedural and meritorial manner today and vote after 7:00 p.m. and discuss this point here. And I'm sorry about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u21	Okay, we have a procedural proposal to act after 7:00 p.m. to discuss this point. I think the proposal is understandable, we can vote on it. I will call the Members to vote. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 46, 166 Members voted in favour of 102, against 27. The motion was accepted. So we're going to act and we're going to finish this point after 19 o'clock. I'll read you some more apologies. Mr Španěl apologizes until the end of today's work for reasons of work; Vice-President Okamura apologizes for personal reasons until the end of the day. And also from 6:30 p.m. to the end of the day, she apologizes for working reasons, Minister Němcová. With a factual remark, Mr Bauer is registered. It's not logged in. So we will continue with proper applications for the general debate. Mr Ferjenčík is next, followed by Mr Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the pirát' position on this proposal. At the time of the introduction of the EET, we were very critical of the Ministry of Finance, as promised things that were subsequently not fulfilled. For example, when it promised to build the InHouse system, then IBM faked hundreds of millions, because the Ministry couldn't make it through time, and a whole bunch of other things. On a number of the problems reflected by the Constitutional Court, we pointed out in advance. We've been drawing attention to this nonsense about e-shops, about credit card payments, and so on. Today there are, for example, shops in Prague, which the only way of payment they accept is by bank transfer. So you come to the store, you normally get an invoice, and you go home. The store has all the Internet payments, and there's definitely no tax evasion, but it just simplifies the bureaucracy that this state has imposed on it. Now, on the subject of today's proposal. We do not think it is happy to disturb EET in § 90, because it is a rather complex law and requires some evaluation. We would really like to study the Ministry of Finance's claim that the yield is 5 billion and compare this alleged return with the cost of implementing and operating the system. After all, if an ANO colleague here, if I'm not mistaken, said that his company cost 9,400, it costs nearly CZK 2 billion for 200 thousand entrepreneurs. And to pay $2 billion to raise $5 billion, it's close to the efficiency of the deal with Kapsch to collect tolls. Which isn't much of a hit. So for us, what are the real costs of implementing and operating the system on both the state side and the business side. It is important for us how much and whether there is a risk of arbitration from both EET system suppliers and, for example, from foreign companies that have implemented and spent considerable money on this. We are interested in how much these costs can bring to the state, or how much it can cost us all. We want to know if the EET has any benefits for businessmen, if there are actually functionalities that help companies. Or if the system has the potential to bring in any such functionality, e.g. simplify tax returns when you have an EET. And that it really isn't an instrument that's just a whip that just hurts, but that it has some added value for businessmen. Therefore, if the proposal is not voted in a single reading in Section 90, we will support it so that we can evaluate this information in further discussion of the law. And if it's in the '90s, we won't support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u23	Thank you. I merely recall that this law will not be negotiated pursuant to § 90 para. 2 because the ANO parliamentary club has submitted an instrument with a sufficient number of Members in accordance with paragraph 3 of the same paragraph of the Rules of Procedure. So it's impossible for us to discuss it this way. Mr Jurečka is another enrolled and the last so far registered for the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u24	Thank you. I would like to sum up a bit of the genesis of development on this issue as this law arose. When we were still part of the government coalition, our President, Pavel Bělobrádek, in many letters, officially warned Mr Babiš's then finance minister that this law has many imperfections, in many cases it is not intended to apply it, will pose problems. Even then, we mentioned the third and fourth waves. We discussed this several times at the Coalition Council in the government. And unfortunately, at that time, we gave in to the promise that in the Chamber of Deputies or in the Senate, these details would be corrected and it would become a better law than it left the government in what form. This has not happened, and we can then see the examples of many groups coming, whether they are people with different degrees of disability, such as blind people, visually impaired people, or then fishermen who deal with seasonal carp sales and so on. So it's obvious that the law didn't remember many of these specific cases of business. That is why we at KDU-ČSL want this law to continue with the legislative process. We will want to apply the amendments at second reading. We don't want to wait for the Ministry of Finance to come up with its adjustment, because it can also take many months. So that's why today we're going to encourage this law to go on with its first and second reading. And I must also say that we clearly had in the KDU-ČSL program that we do not support the third and fourth waves and we do not support the parameters that were for the first and second waves. For example, we clearly said that we would not want EET obligations to apply to VAT payers. And here I will give you the particular example that we have also accentuated in the previous period of the Chamber of Deputies, when we had amendments here concerning farmers' markets or, for example, income from traders up to CZK 450,000, because we are introducing an EET for these people, which will not bring an extra crown to the state on taxes. They are entrepreneurs who, if they add up a flat-rate expenditure, if they use a flat-rate expenditure and apply it, they do not pay the tax to that State. Yet we want these entrepreneurs to have an EET. That doesn't exactly make sense. So these things and some other things that are already objectively known today, we would like to correct in this legal standard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u25	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? If not, I am ending the general debate. There was a motion to reject the proposal. [[A reminder off the microphone.]] Excuse me? Sorry, final words. Thanks for the heads-up. The petitioner is interested in the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u26	Thank you. President Faltýnek asked me why the final word. For the record. Just to be clear about the programming agreement, right? That's easy. I want to remind you that at this point, there is an inequality between entrepreneurs. And he will rule for a long time. The Minister's demise, don't be mad at me, he's preparing a novel in demise, he's got no weight for the House. As long as he doesn't have the famous 101 in the Chamber of Deputies... Maybe he already has them. I don't know. It's possible. Seriously, though. If you read it, and I know it was a minority of the Constitutional Court, for those who say most. But most of them were jamming the sections I was talking about. That was a match. But if you read the sentences without prejudice, without the party shirt, they're terrible. Against the sense of business. Against personal freedom. Unconstitutional. One at a time. The state isn't supposed to throw sticks at the little ones. You don't care because the Constitutional Court as a whole didn't cancel it. That's too little. That's too little. I know that many of you are supporters - if there were four, five big companies, big guys set it up in January, we'd all be employees, we'd be good, we'd be listening. But that's what the constitutional judges are writing about. About who and what is the basis of freedom in the Czech Republic. And this law, and that's a simple fact, is an attack on freedom. Nothing less. An attack on freedom. So you who want less freedom vote for rejection. You who want more freedom, come with us to discuss this at second and third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-007-011.u27	There. That was the final word of the plaintiffs' representative. I'm asking the rapporteur if she's interested in the final word. No. There was a motion to reject the proposed bill. We will now vote on this proposal. There's an application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you. Please log in with your ID cards again. Now we can vote. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting order number 47. 153 Members registered, for 83, against 64. The proposal has been adopted and this concludes the discussion of this point. At the same time, under the agreement of the MPs, I am ending this day's negotiations in the Chamber of Deputies. We will continue tomorrow, Wednesday, January 24, at 9 a.m., the first point, which is classified as a fixed point. It's point number one. 4, defence of the Czech Republic. Have a good evening.
