ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-003-061.u1	61. Government proposal by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give consent to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union (the House Press 97/ - first reading) I would ask that Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and Deputy Prime Minister Martin Stropnickýý take their seats at the rapporteur's table, but I do not see either of them, although Minister Schillerová has documents here, and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jan Kubík, I see this. We should continue with the adjourned general debate, but I will request a representative... And I can see the secretary. [[He's entering the hall.]] Please take it easy, Madam Secretary, I haven't asked anyone to perform yet. I note that we have interrupted this item and we will continue the interrupted debate, with the fact that Mrs Helena Válková, who I do not see, is duly signed up. In that case, her application is forfeit. But I see the MP. Come, please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-003-061.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Madam Secretary, I have already performed in the general debate last week once, unfortunately I did not get answers to our questions. And the basic one that Mr Stanjura here also said is why he's in such a hurry. After all, we have no time to accept this fiscal pact. And we certainly do not think that this pact on stability, coordination and governance in economic and monetary union must be submitted by a government that does not have the confidence of representatives in the Chamber of Deputies. And it is so serious that we believe that it really should be discussed by a government with confidence and a government that will have at least a majority secured. About our doubts about the way this is presented to us, about the Senate's vote on this differently in the past period, and the previous government has put it differently, which was mentioned here by Mr Benda. But I'm going back to the question again. Why now? Why now? And why is he in such a hurry? Why must this really be presented by a government that does not have a guaranteed trust? It is really just a symbolic decision, which means a decision because of the image of the government of Andrej Babiš, when in Europe he tries to show that the government, which is based here in this House so far on the votes of the Communists and the SPD, but he wants to show the House how pro-European the government is, is that really the only reason? And is that reason enough? And by showing it to the government, is it a two-faced government? He shows us one here in the Czech Parliament and shows the other to his partners in Brussels. Then why doesn't he wait for the government with confidence? I am terribly sorry that the Prime Minister is not here again, because he should be on such an important contract. I'm going to repeat what I said here, the last one, virtually. The week before last. Is the Prime Minister of this country really returning to his statement of February 2014, when he said that the adoption of the fiscal pact was the first step towards the euro? Is this really the first step towards the euro, or isn't it? That's something I'd like to know. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is not here again. Or is what he wrote on his Facebook and Twitter that we're wrong and that it's definitely not a step towards the euro? So is what he said in February 2014, or does what he says at the beginning of 2018 apply? And what will he say at the end of 2018? Or in 2019? It really reminds me of the salami method that we're trying to accept something at all costs, and it's said to us, the main things aren't transferred, the competencies. But it's different. The treaty is not only about tightening fiscal discipline, but also about moving fiscal powers from national governments to the European Commission and to the most powerful countries in the euro area. It says that Czech Republic, respectively. The signatories to this matter, this fiscal pact, will have to coordinate their economic policies. I was here two weeks ago explaining that coordination is not just a word that different directives and regulations come after coordination. And that's what we're very worried about. And the government's assumption that we have an exception today... We've already had one exception. We had an exception to the Treaty of Lisbon, from its social charter. And the previous government, where it was part of the YES movement, has abandoned the exception. She wasn't extorting her. And we didn't know why. We did not know what the Czech Republic received or received in the negotiations. How could we now use such an exception for negotiating, for example, quotas and Dublin IV and so on! Unfortunately, we have lost this opportunity. It was a decision of the Czech Government and the Czech Republic received nothing for it. Or at least we didn't see her get anything for it. The same process may occur with the exception that all articles of this fiscal pact will not apply to us. I'm afraid the exception will soon escape and again it will be just a salami method. I explained here - for those colleagues who weren't here two weeks ago - that this fiscal pact makes sense for eurozone countries so that some country doesn't run away and threaten the common political currency and the euro with its fiscal indiscipline. However, for other countries like us, this meaning is passing away. [[17.50 hours]] So I repeat my question again, and I ask the Minister to answer my question. Why does the government have to do this without trust? Why doesn't he wait for the government with confidence? What's the reason? Is this really just a government image in Brussels? Or have you managed to negotiate something so wonderful, so great for the Czech Republic for joining us? Or is that the first step towards the euro? How do you explain, please, the words of your predecessor as Secretary of Finance Andrej Babiš of February 2014 that the fiscal pact is a step towards the euro? These are very important questions for us. I'd like you to answer them, Madam Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-003-061.u3	I thank Mr Vojtěch Munzar for his speech. Madam Secretary is reporting, but before that, Mr Okamura's factual remark, then the Minister's priority right and then Mrs Válková's duly applied for. Mr Vice-President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-003-061.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to strongly oppose the nonsense that Mr. Munzar of the ODS here has been saying, which was wrong here. You've probably been sitting on your ears or not listening, getting a little involved in your nonsense. Because you said the government supported by the SPD, that from the ANO movement, because the government supports the SPD, that they're trying to push through the fiscal pact. But you're probably either frozen somewhere, or you're lying purposefully, because we're here on one of the two sides that, on the other hand, doesn't want him to go through the fiscal pact. And we are opposed to adopting the euro. So please don't lie here. And I'd just like to say that we're not voting here in any of the voting coalitions either. Let me give you an example. When there was a vote on the increase in missions, in Afghanistan, we voted against the YES movement. We voted differently than the YES movement. There's no voting coalition here because it's against our program. When we voted on our proposal, which we are co-submitting to abolish the EET for businessmen with a turnover of up to CZK million, and instead we propose a flat-rate tax such as in Germany, we voted against the YES movement. Because the YES movement simply does not support tradesmen, we support tradesmen. So, on the contrary, when the ODS wanted to push into the leadership of the House of Commons of its President Petr Fiala, you did a voting machine and a coalition with the ANO movement to get through it so you could have Vice-President of the House. On the contrary, we did not vote for the ODS nominee. So I would like to end up here with this purposeful nonsense, and really we, who are the main Eurosceptic party and refuse to pass the fiscal pact, so don't put us in a little bit of that sentence in the same package with the YES movement, which, on the other hand, is making the preparations for the adoption of the euro. Finally, I just wanted to say that the SPD always votes in line with the program. That means, sometimes it gets in the way of you, like now. Another time, we have an overlay like the YES movement. Other times, maybe with someone else, because we don't politicize. We're just going to the program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-003-061.u5	Mr Vice-President, your time for a point of fact is over. You made a factual comment by Mr Munzar, so I'm sure the Minister will be happy to respond, but only after your factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-003-061.u6	Mr President Tomio Okamura, through Mr President, I think you have not listened to me as you have now. [[Ambassador Okamura from the place: We listened well!]] I was saying here that the government, that one of the possible reasons why he wants to accept a fiscal pact... Please do not yell at me through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-003-061.u7	I'll settle for peace here, my colleague, with all those who want to speak, of course I'll put them in order and they'll be given the floor. But please, let us respect the Rules of Procedure, only the one to whom the President gives the floor is speaking. If you are discussing problems other than the Stability, Coordination and Governance Treaty in economic and monetary union, please, in principle, in the foyer. I'll make up your time for another minute, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-003-061.u8	Thank you. I'll repeat the sentence. What I said here, what I said here two weeks ago, is that one of the reasons we see there is that it is a vote, and it is urgent because it wants to improve the image of the Government of Andrej Babiš in Brussels to show Brussels, Mr President, how pro-European it is. Perhaps for this reason, it often votes in the Czech Parliament and often relies on the votes of your SPD and communists. That's what I said, and you're not gonna tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-003-061.u9	Thank you. Now, Mr Jurečka, also with a factual remark. Madam Secretary is still ready to answer. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-003-061.u10	Thank you. I'm so sorry, Mr. Tomio Okamura's speech didn't give me a brief factual question. Through Mr President, there is a beautiful display of popularism, where, on the one hand, here from the posters, President Okamura talks about how he wants to fight political Islam, how he wants to combat Islamic terrorism, on the other hand, when he votes to strengthen our troops in Afghanistan, who are fighting fighters, extreme terrorists, whether the Islamic State or Al-Qaeda, etc., in the context of a broad alliance. I am therefore saying this as a factual remark to what was said here by President Tomio Okamura, when he obviously also did not express himself to the fiscal pact, but it was such a striking thing where it did not allow me to comment here and not draw attention to the huge fundamental contradiction between those words and those actions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-003-061.u11	Thank you for your time on the point of fact and now with the priority right of Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Before that, I apologise to Mr Čižinský for family reasons from 17.45 until the end of the day. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-003-061.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. I, Mr Munzar, responded honestly last time to all the questions spoken. Unfortunately, your benches at that time were largely empty. So I'm not gonna say it again, I'm just gonna stress what was said today. Fiscal pact is not a treaty with the European Union. This is an intergovernmental agreement with selected countries of the European Union as Contracting Parties. These are currently all countries of the European Union, except the United Kingdom and the Czech Republic. However, the European Union as a whole is not a contracting party. The Treaty thus stands outside the legal framework of the European Union, and therefore the fiscal pact does not establish or strengthen the powers of the European Union, including the European Commission, towards the Czech Republic. This has to do with my answer to your question, which has fallen repeatedly, whether the Czech Republic can negotiate any concession or advantage in the European Union for a fiscal pact. For example, you set an example last time of the abolition of quotas for the reception of migrants. He can't. There's a clear answer. The European Union is not a party to the fiscal pact. Then you asked why the government was trying to ratify the fiscal pact in a hurry. The Czech Republic dealt with the first ratification of the fiscal pact at the beginning of 2012, i.e. more than six years ago. Think for yourself if it's speeding furiously. The fiscal pact entered into force on 1 January 2013 and to date all countries of the European Union, with the exception of the Czech Republic and Great Britain, are Contracting Parties, as I said a moment ago. Great Britain is in Brexit, so she's in a different position right now. The Czech Republic is therefore the last potential candidate for ratification. And the hurricane you're putting in, I'm putting it in quotes, is an effort not to isolate the Czech Republic. Nothing more, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-003-061.u13	Thank you, Minister of Finance. My colleague Válková will wait, because here I have a factual remark from my colleague Skopeček. And neither will he have more time than until 6:00 p.m., because then a completely different point of action will begin. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-003-061.u14	Thank you very much. I'll try to be quick. The Minister repeats here that the fiscal pact is not part of European law. That it actually has nothing to do with the European Union, that it is an intergovernmental agreement. Madam Secretary, during the previous speech, I asked you if you knew, and you confirmed that you knew that your officials told you that in the package of proposals for changes on how the euro area will be reconstructed and changed, it follows, along with the amendment of the European Stability Mechanism to the European Monetary Fund, that the fiscal pact will become part of European law. Then why do you keep saying this nonsense that it's an international agreement when it's a clear plan to turn it into European legislation? And the only reason you're in a hurry is to make it even when it's intergovernmental agreement, because the moment it becomes European legislation, you might have a bigger problem here. So don't say anything that could happen in a few months! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-003-061.u15	I thank my colleague Skopečka for keeping time. But a colleague. I will not give a word to the Wars either on a factual point or on a proper speech, because it is 17.59 and I have to at least organize an apology to Mr Martin Kolovratník's apology from 17.45 until the end of the day and declare that I am interrupting item 61, that is, this government proposal by which the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic submits its consent to the approach of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union. It's 6:00. I thank the Minister of Finance, thank you to the rapporteur and interrupt paragraph 61, and therefore also interrupt the negotiating points relating to the laws at first reading or contracts at first reading. We will deal with the block of contracts in second and first reading, in the order that they were presented. Starting point number
