ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-003-003.u1	3. The draft law amending Act No. 111/2006 Coll., on assistance in material distress, as amended /German press 89/5/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned to us the bill with amendments and the resolution was delivered as House press 89/6. Information about the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Alena Šromová among us and I ask that Mrs Jana Pastuchová comment on the amendments tabled for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate. [[There's still a lot of noise in the room.]] At the same time, I beg you, honourable Members, once again to be calm, because we are in such a situation and in such a noise that we cannot continue to discuss this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-003-003.u2	Mr President, Madam Senator, colleagues, let me briefly introduce you to this proposal that has come back from the Senate. During the last parliamentary term, the Chamber of Deputies approved a proposal for an amendment to the Act on Assistance in Material Need, which amended the method of payment of the subsistence allowance for beneficiaries who received it for more than six months in the last 12 months. Now part of the subsistence allowance, not less than 35 per cent and not more than 65 per cent, is paid to these beneficiaries in vouchers. This arrangement was approved by the Senate and signed by... Sorry, sorry. The introduction of the vouchers fell on some vulnerable groups of beneficiaries of the allowance for a living, which is why I submitted an amendment to the law, including amendments that have been approved here, and 19. The 10th was passed on to the Senate. The Senate has added other amendments to this law, which have actually extended the range of persons who will not receive vouchers, and there is another amendment that will be cancelled... or proposes the abolition of Mrs Richterová's amendment, when we have approved that the clients who have a diet will attend the employment office for payment of this benefit in cash. That's probably a short summary of it. And actually, the Senate has added two more groups -- sorry, I will add -- they have added a group of caregivers and a group of third levels of addiction, so it has expanded by two more groups to ours, which we have approved here in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-003-003.u3	I thank the Member and I ask now that Senator Alena Šromová take the floor. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-003-003.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said here, the subject matter of this proposal is the form of providing a living allowance as one of the benefits in material distress. The Senate identified itself with the purpose of the law, i.e. the principle that certain groups of persons cannot be paid in the form of vouchers instead of funds, but only considered it appropriate to draw attention to and correct a legislative technical error in the proposal and, at the same time, minor adjustments have been made to the list of groups of persons concerned by your proposed exemption. I will focus only on changes approved by the Senate. In the Senate, the proposal was discussed in two committees, in the Committee on Health and Social Policy and in the Constitutional Legal Committee. Both committees adopted two amendments, one of which was identical to both committees. The drafts of both committees were then adopted by the Senate plenary. The first change, as I have already said, is the legislative technical amendment of the text with a view to achieving its substantive and formal clarity. In a proposal that came to the Senate, the words "after-care services" were used in the passage on the housing supplement, and this formulation was replaced in the Senate by the words "after-care services facility." This is the amendment on which the two committees agreed. I'm just gonna make a brief statement. A case worthy of special consideration is always considered to be the person staying in the listed social services facilities when it comes to granting entitlement to the housing supplement. The amendment adopted here in the Chamber of Deputies included a reference to follow-up services in the list of accommodations in question. However, these services may not only be carried out in the form of accommodation, but may also have the character of an outpatient service. By changing the Senate, when the words are replaced by "the after-care services facility," this will actually correct the defective formulation. The second amendment, which was adopted in plenary and was recommended by the Committee on Health and Social Policy, is the exclusion from the obligation to pay a living allowance in the form of vouchers by carers as well. The third proposal adopted in plenary and essentially the second proposal of the Constitutional Committee is to extend the exemption to persons receiving a third-level care allowance, i.e. a heavy dependence. In the original proposal, only dependence in stage IV was very difficult. The reason for these two amendments is the fact that these persons or these groups of persons are in the vast majority of cases without the possibility of increasing their income by earning income. In the first case, they are therefore dependent on the income resulting from the care allowance provided to them by the person they are caring for and the payment of part of the subsistence allowance by means of vouchers makes their financial and overall life situation worse and, moreover, could affect the extent of the care provided to the person with a severe disability. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] In the latter case, the payment of material distress by means of vouchers from third-degree persons would also lead to a deterioration of their already difficult financial situation in ensuring the necessary social services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-003-003.u5	I'm sorry, Senator. You here must basically scream the part of the Members who do not create the conditions for you to finish your performance in a dignified atmosphere. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you once more to calm down. Senator, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-003-003.u6	When discussing the Senate plenary, the last amendment was read and subsequently adopted which, in the text of the draft law, releases the words "the increase in the amount of subsistence due to diet is always paid in cash'. The reason for the adoption of this proposal was the use of the inappropriate word "cash'. According to the original proposal, the persons belonging to this group would have to pay the payer's cashiers, i.e. the cashiers of the employment office, for their benefit. This would be complicated for both the person receiving the benefit and the payer. Just for the record, maybe in the Olomouc Region, it would have been about 35,000 doses a year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-003-003.u7	Thank you, Senator. I am now asking the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which was the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Aulickáý Jírovcová, if she wants to comment on the Senate resolution. No, she doesn't want to comment, so at this point, I'm opening up a debate. Mrs Richterová is enrolled in the debate. It is also registered here with a factual remark by Mrs Levová. I couldn't give her the floor because I haven't opened the debate yet, so if she insists on the factual point, she'll get the floor after Mrs Richterová. Mrs Richterová has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-003-003.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Madame Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Senate for correcting my mistake. Then I want to say that it feels great to see that this is the process that can work, the refinement and the repair. And just briefly, the opinion that some groups will simply be lost, some will be added to vote in favour of this proposal, but it seems very good to us that those reasons remain worthy of special consideration in the bill. So very briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-003-003.u9	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? Yes. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it. Mr. Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-003-003.u10	Madam Senator, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a short time. Opinion of the KDU-ČSL Club on the Senate of the Returned Amendment. We have already announced here during the third reading that we would like to promote one of the amendments that KDU-ČSL Members presented here in the context of this amendment in the Senate, so it has happened. I thank the senators that they have taken into their version the extension of exceptions for people who care about a person close to you, because, as we have pointed out here many times, the situation of these people is already very difficult enough, which is why I think that the exception is actually appropriate for them. So I thank the senators for taking this exception into the Senate version. And otherwise the KDU-ČSL club supports the Senátor's return version and we will vote in favour of this version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-003-003.u11	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? He's not reporting. I'm done with the conversation. Is there any interest in the final word on the part of the plaintiff? It's not. Not even the senator is interested in the final word. So we will proceed to the vote. We shall vote in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 4 of the Rules of Procedure Act, that is to say, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present will be needed to adopt the following resolution. The motion for a resolution on which we will now vote is: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 111/2006 Coll. on aid in material distress, as amended, according to House press 89/5, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 89/6'. I called the MPs and the MPs to vote in the hall. There's a checkout request. So you're all logged out, and I'm begging you to rejoin your voting cards. We're ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 18, 169 Members signed up, for 169, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. Thank you, Senator, thank you, Mrs Pastuchová. Initiating discussion of the next item
