ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-017-008.u1	8. Proposal by Members Věra Kovářová, Vít Rakušan and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 159/2006 Sb., on conflict of interest, as amended / House print 33/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 So this is where I'm going to recap what we're dealing with here. We have a motion to shorten the deadline for 20 days, and we do not have a motion for a commandment to a committee other than a guarantee committee. [[From the diaper, the objections are that we do.]] So it was in the press 34, point 9. This is where we had the IDA and regional development. And the guarantee committee here is constitutionally legal, but that has already been said. I'm asking if any other than the guarantee committee. That didn't happen here. For both of them, it was, oh, I made a note here, so for both the press and the other, we have a proposal for a Committee on Regional Development. All right. We will therefore now consider the proposals for the commandments to the committees. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the submitted press to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal should be ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee? I'm taking the vote now. If you agree, please raise your hand and press the button. If you're against it, press the button, raise your hand. Voting number 26. 157 Members registered, for 152, against 1, abstained 4. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. As a further proposal, I have here that the proposal put forward should be ordered for discussion by the Committee on Regional Development. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Regional Development? Initiating vote, please. Raise your hand and press the button. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 27. 157 Members registered, for 155, versus zero, abstained from 2. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Committee on Regional Development. There is no further proposal on the commandment to the other committees here, so we will now vote on the proposal that has fallen in the general debate to shorten the deadline. So I have a motion here to shorten the hearing period to 20 days. Who agrees with this proposal? Initiating vote, please. Press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 28. Registered 157 Members, for 123, versus 1, remaining 33. This proposal was adopted. So I'm done discussing this point, but I have two factual points to make here - but you're interrupting them, okay. So I'm going to delete you and we're going to move on to the next point. For the next item, we have a government bill - please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-017-008.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to conclude with a short gloss. The Chamber of Deputies has decided, I respect that. I would like to thank Marek Výborný for preparing this law, because he has done a great deal of work on this. And since we are really interested in municipal policies to help them in their difficult situation, we are ready to put forward the amendments that we have prepared, and we will continue to do so. And one more short remark. We have double-type contracts in our lives. One that is written and enforceable, and the other that is oral and all the more valuable. Yesterday, an agreement was made that failed today by the ANO, the SPD and the Pirates. I'm sorry as a person. If there are no oral agreements, on what do you want to build mutual trust? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-017-008.u3	Thank you. And now we will proceed to discussing the point.
