ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-002-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 247/1995 Coll., on the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic and on the amendment and addition of certain other laws, as amended, /German press 59/1/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with an amendment. We received his resolution as House Press 59/2. The senator is in his place, but I first ask the plaintiff to comment on the Senate resolution and the amendment tabled by the Interior Minister Lubomír Metnar. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-002-001.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law in the original version submitted by the Government was a technical amendment that responded to a change in the population in the electoral districts of the Senate. The aim of the proposal was to change the definition of those Senate electoral districts where the population below or respectively decreased or increased. over the threshold set out in Article 59 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) 2 of the Act on Elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic, i.e. plus minus 15 per cent compared to the average population per mandate in the Czech Republic. Changes in the definition of Senate electoral districts carried out regularly during the years when the Senate elections are announced, in accordance with the current text of Section 59 para. 2 of the electoral law pursued a legitimate objective of reducing the population difference between the different electoral districts, taking into account one of the fundamental principles of electoral law, namely the principle of equality. It not only calls for each voter to have the same number of votes, but at the same time for each vote to have the same weight. During the discussion of the Senate bill, long-term dissatisfaction with the system was clearly expressed by the senators, according to which electoral districts change to the Senate every two years. In some cases, it is the case that a specific senator from the constituency for which he was elected is removed from the territory for which he has long been engaged in the exercise of his mandate. As a result of the shift between the electoral districts, there are also situations affecting the six-year electoral cycle. Some voters have been voting for the Senate for two years and, on the contrary, some voters do not vote for e.g. Ten years. The result of the Senate debate was the adoption of a resolution by which the Senate returned the bill to the Chamber of Deputies as amended by the amendment adopted. The amendment deletes the amendment points to amend the definition of Senate electoral districts, repealing the provisions of Paragraph 59 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Paragraph 97 (2) of the Act on Elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which provides for regular changes to the electoral districts, and also repeals the related provisions of Section 97 (2) of the Act on Elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic. 1 Act on Elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic. In the accompanying resolution on the bill, the Senate expressed long-term dissatisfaction with early changes in the electoral districts for Senate elections and called on the Government to prepare a legislation on electoral law that would ensure greater stability of electoral circuits for Senate elections. [[17.30 hours]] I am aware of the lack of an existing system requiring repeated changes of electoral circuits to the Senate. The discussion on how to set up the system in order to maintain equality of electoral rights while strengthening the stability of electoral circuits in the Senate has been conducted for several years. The government is prepared to submit a proposal to the Senate for a new regulation of the electoral districts, which, while maintaining equality of electoral law, would ensure the utmost stability of the Senate electoral districts. In this respect, therefore, I welcome both the Senate initiative and the accompanying resolution. In the current situation, I support the Senate proposal and I would like to ask you to give your consent to the bill as approved by the Senate. Finally, allow me to reiterate once again that the Ministry of the Interior is ready to hold a debate on the proposal for future legislation, which will lead to the presentation of a bill that would satisfactorily and systematically resolve this undesirable situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-002-001.u3	I thank the Minister of the Interior Lubomír Metnar and ask if the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Jana Vildumetzová, wishes to comment on the Senate's amendment. That's right. He wants to express himself. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-002-001.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members, I would like to say what the Minister of the Interior has said. The only thing that surprises me is that we have approved the proposal here at first reading and that because this amendment from the Senate is now tabled here, so if we did not approve this law today, because both chambers of Parliament must approve this law, this law would have to start again, and the elections to the Senate will be threatened in the autumn of this year. Even if we accept these amendments to the Senate, I must point out that, in the two Senate electoral districts concerned, which is the Senate electoral district of Benešov and Sokolov, there may be any actions that have not been followed by equality of electoral law. There's a risk. Although it is not as if we had not adopted the amendments today, because if we had not adopted them, the new law would not have been able to be discussed by now, and the border set for the establishment of the Senate constituency would not have been respected. So for this reason, I also recommend that we approve this proposal today, along with those amendments from the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-002-001.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Mrs Vildumetzová, and I am opening the debate. First up, Senator Jiří Dienstbier. I have three other MPs. Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-002-001.u6	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, the Minister has said almost all the reservations in the debate in the Senate, so I can be even more brief. In fact, such a proposal is presented every two years, and every two years it is the subject of criticism on the floor of the Senate. It is true that Article 59 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty does not apply. 2 which we propose to delete the amendment is the criterion that the deviation from the average population per mandate should not exceed 15 per cent in individual territories. That is therefore the call for equality of the electoral rights of individual citizens. However, there are objections to this in the Senate, as it has also been mentioned here, that, as some municipalities move more or less randomly, so that it is based on numbers, so there is also a significant intervention in the equality of electoral law, because some citizens of some municipalities can't vote before ten years later, if their community is moved from the territory where they should be elected, to where they will vote in the next four years, and they need to vote somewhere after two years. Moreover, those reservations include the fact that these movements are sometimes actually very random, without any connection to any natural connection to the territory, that they are torn away from the senate territory, where there is some logic, and they are assigned somewhere where there is no stalemate or bond at all. Therefore, this time the Senate has decided not to approve this bill, which is actually repeated every two years, and has adopted the amendment. Perhaps the consequences of the vote. Whether this amendment is adopted or not, in both cases, there will be a situation that does not change the territory of the electoral districts, but in the case of the approval of the Senate version with the amendment which releases the two provisions, the potential contradiction will be eliminated. It's not a definite solution. It is a solution for this time, for this year's elections, and it opens up room for debate on how to set up future possible changes in the territory of Senate districts. This discussion includes, for example, a more ambitious option in the Constitution to anchor permanent Senate electoral districts. Even there, it would probably have to come up with a regime, as in some longer period, for example 12, 18 years, to change the electoral districts from the point of view of their territory, so that there would be a certain similarity to their size in terms of population, or a less ambitious option, such as the amendment of the Act on elections to Parliament, which would take place once every six years, that is not every two years, which would ensure that all citizens, except, of course, for example, for moving, but that cannot be taken into account, would opt for at least once in that six-year cycle than would change the boundaries of the territories, and it would be more appropriate to make those changes in the year when no Senate elections are held. Not like it is now in the 1959 Act. 2 provided that this is to be done in precisely those years when Senate elections take place, and then it is also under time pressure. So there's an open space in case the law is passed for a debate on how to better adjust this matter in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-002-001.u7	Thank you, Senator Jiří Dienstbier. Two Members are also enrolled in the debate, Mrs Věra Kovářová and Mr Vojtěch Pikal. The lady has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-002-001.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow for a brief comment and opinion from the Mayors and Independents Club. We fully agree with what has been said here and also said from the Senate that many citizens have been reduced over the years to their right to vote for the Senate. First of all. And secondly, with the fact that the changes in the electoral circuits during the Senate elections were really common. Therefore, this Senate proposal will be supported by the Mayors and Independents Club. Because if we did not accept this proposal, there might be a paradoxical situation. While the rule of change in the constituency would be maintained when the population change plus minus 15 percent, in this case, the circuits would not correspond to this rule, which could result in someone attacking elections after the election, with the fact that the circuits do not correspond to this very provision. So I repeat, we will support this proposal. However, by supporting the Senate proposal, we are pushing the problem a little further. I therefore assume that the Ministry of Interior will prepare, as the Senate has said in the resolution, proposals for new elections, for a new definition of Senate districts, so that two years from now it is possible to vote under new rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-002-001.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Now Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal to perform. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-002-001.u10	Thank you. For us, I would like to say that we also perceive the problem. There is simply inequality of voting rights and at the same time there is inequality of circuits and frequent changes that are not in any control, or they do not know what will happen, which is also unpleasant for senators and ultimately for those represented residents and voters. [[17.40 hours]] However, canceling the recount is not the solution. And it's possible to talk about different solutions, whether it's a three-mandat circuit, where one senator will be voted every two years, so we can understand each other to preserve the change, or it'll be some solution when we recalculate for example. those circuits once every six or twelve years to achieve greater stability of the represented circuit and some equality. However, the proposal does not address this now, because, on the other hand, it goes against the fact that the circuits stop counting, and the amendment to the electoral law would then necessarily lead to the fact that, on the contrary, the equality in the future is denied. Therefore, I do not allow myself to estimate which solution is better if we have a law that denies equality in the future or that we are currently not necessarily guaranteed equality for some circuits. However, there must be said that the vote is not ideal, not even in the House elections, whether we look at the mandates or the size of the circuits or the number of votes on the mandate. And, more or less, given that it's for the population, not for the number of voters, the equality isn't perfect even now, so I wouldn't have seen it so black if it wasn't approved. So I don't think it's a solution, but the problem needs to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-002-001.u11	I thank Vice-President Pikal, and this has been the last one entered into the debate so far. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. I see no one, so I am done with the debate. I'm asking the final words - Mr. Minister? [[He's not interested.]] The rapporteur - she is interested. prosit, Mrs Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-002-001.u12	I would still like to comment on Mr Pikal's predecessor about the fact that if we do not approve here at this time, what is in the electoral law will not be respected. That means those Senate electoral circuits won't have the numbers the law states. This will show that in the Senate elections that will take place in the fall, actions for annulment of the elections may fall. It is two Senate electoral districts, I said so, it is Benešov and Sokolov, and it is therefore necessary to approve the amendment from the Senate at this point in time. It is far less likely that any action before the Supreme Administrative Court or the Constitutional Court should then be dismissed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-002-001.u13	Thank you to the rapporteur. I will also remind you that we are acting in accordance with Art. 40 Constitutions of the Czech Republic, i.e. If the House does not accept the law, the vote will not be re-voted pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 5 Rules of Procedure, because it is necessary for the adoption of the electoral law to be approved by both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. And since we have exhausted procedural matters, I would remind you that we will proceed to the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following law, the consent of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution, but before that, I will sign you all off. I'm going to ask you for a new registration, please log in with your I.D. cards. I will continue to ensure that those who are interested in voting on this proposal can come to the House when I have asked them to hold discussions in the foyer. [[Some Members enter the hall.]] We will vote on the motion for a resolution, which I will bring to you in a moment, in vote number 83. The motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 247/1995 Coll., on the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic and on the amendment and addition of certain other laws, as amended, according to the House press 59/1, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 59/2." I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 83 of the 136 Members present for 118, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to Senator Dienstbier and finish point one. Before we proceed, allow me to state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Richter apologises from 17.30 to the end of the day and Vice-President Pikal from 17.45 until the end of the day. The next item is:
