ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-004-162.u1	162. Czech National Bank's report on inflation - July 2018 (The Monetary Development Report for the first half of 2018) /German press 258/ - first reading Thank you that both the Governor and the rapporteur have remained in place because it is the Czech National Bank's report on inflation by July 2018 - the report on monetary developments in the first half of this year. This report is presented by the Governor of the National Bank, who in this case is entitled to attend a meeting and must be given the floor, so we shall not vote on his withdrawal because the law so assumes. According to Law No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, the Czech National Bank is obliged to report to the Chamber of Deputies at least twice a year on monetary developments, so I will ask Jiří Rusnok, Governor of the National Bank, to give the report first. Mr. Governor, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-004-162.u2	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Government, honourable Members. I'm gonna try very briefly not to hold you back, you've got a lot ahead of you. The inflation report III/2018 describes the economic development and the resulting conclusions for the monetary policy of the Czech National Bank. The economy grew gradually over the course of this year at a slowing pace. In the second quarter, growth reached 2.4 percent. The main source of growth was mainly household consumption and company investment. According to the CNB's forecast, the growth of the Czech economy from last year's high rates will slow down this year, but it will remain above 3% and this is how we expect it to continue in the coming years. It will also be dragged into the future by robust growth in household consumption, which reflects consumer optimism in an environment of rapid growth in their income. The rapidly growing external demand and the ever more pronounced lack of free labour will continue to motivate domestic businesses to invest in machinery and equipment. [[15.40 hours]] Fiscal policy will contribute to the growth of domestic demand in 2018 and 2019 by accelerating the drawdown of European funds as well as a more pronounced increase in current expenditure. At the same time, increasing demand for work will also be reflected in continued rapid wage growth. The current wage growth rate is 8,6 percent. However, it should gradually slow down in the coming years. Inflation shifted to the upper half of the CNB's tolerance band in the second quarter. In June it reached 2.6 percent year on year, in July it fell to 2.3 and in August it again slightly increased to 2.5. The overall inflation pressures associated, in particular, with marked wage dynamics remain strong and will increase even further in the short term. At the same time, the anti-inflationary effect of import prices was halted due to the recent slight weakening of the koruna exchange rate. Inflation will therefore be in the upper half of our tolerance band, which is above 2%, according to our latest forecast by mid-2019. In the meantime, overall inflation pressures will gradually start to moderate, and this will also result in continued increases in interest rates and gradually renewed appreciation of the koruna exchange rate and then slower wage dynamics. At the monetary policy horizon, that is, in the second half of next year, inflation will return to our inflation target, i.e. 2%, and it will remain close to this target during 2020. The continued increase in interest rates towards their long-term neutral level is consistent with this forecast. According to the forecast, the koruna exchange rate will return to strengthening after temporary weakening. This will contribute to the clearly positive interest differential of the Czech koruna against the euro, as well as the losing influence of the purchase of assets by the European Central Bank and the real convergence of the Czech economy. According to our forecast, the exchange rate should thus strengthen at some point in the first months of 2019 up to CZK 25 per euro. At its meeting in August, the Board assessed the risks of the inflation forecast at the monetary policy horizon as being balanced. We have identified as the main uncertainty the duration of the global factors that caused the previous weakening of the koruna. Another source of external uncertainty identified by our forecast is the increase in protectionist measures in world trade. So, at the end of our August negotiations, we decided to increase the two-week repo rate by 25 basis points to 1,25. Similarly, at the September meeting, the board raised the main interest rate by another 25 basis points, or 1.50, which is currently in force. Balance of risks of the forecast, last forecast, respectively. its September update, sees the risks as balanced and essentially insignificant. However, there is still general uncertainty arising from the threat of free trade in the world and also from the events surrounding Brexit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-004-162.u3	děkovat you, Mr. CNB Governor Jiří Rusnok. I note that the report has been discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 258/1. I will ask the Committee rapporteur, Mr Karel Rais, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-004-162.u4	Thank you. Hello. I will present the resolution of the budget committee of the 11th meeting of 5 September 2018 on the CNB's report on inflation - July 2018, the report on monetary developments for the first half of 2018, the House's press 258. Following the opening words of Mr Král's representative, Mr Rais's report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic I. takes note of the CNB Inflation Report - July 2018; [[Monetary developments report for the first half of 2018]] II. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the CNB's report on inflation - July 2018; [[Monetary developments report for the first half of 2018]] III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-004-162.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a debate which I do not have an application for. I'm asking if there's anyone from the scene. Yes, I see, Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-004-162.u6	Thank you for the floor. The Governor has already mentioned this in his introductory words, but this year the inflation targets, i.e. 2%, have somehow failed to meet the Czech National Bank. And so I want to ask you where the governor sees the causes of the failure. If, like many of us, it is too rapid wage growth, which in many cases does not correspond to the increase in labour productivity, whether it is more involved in this, in his view, if he agrees that wage growth is also involved in this, whether public administration or private administration are more involved. And when the Governor imagines or expects inflation to return to the band that is actually the CNB's inflation target. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-004-162.u7	If the governor wants to... Yes, he does. The Governor will answer the question in the debate. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-004-162.u8	Mr Vice-President, Dear House, thank you for your question. So first of all, I want to stress that we have an inflation target of two percent and we have around it, it's called. tolerance zone, plus, minus one percent. So if inflation is one to three percent in that band, we're in the tolerance interface. We approach this inflation targeting in a really flexible way, because it is essentially not even the point of inflation targeting to insist rigidly on a nominal figure every month, necessarily two percent. It's not even possible. De facto, there are so many possibilities in a small open economy where there are some external effects. Of course, there are items that we are not able to influence in this inflation at all, like regulated prices, such as commodities such as oil, electricity, to some extent food and some others. So we do not consider that we are slightly above our nominal inflation target as a major problem. It should be recalled that we were many, many months in 2012, at least 2014, 2015, deep below our nominal inflation target, and this did not mean that we would make any dramatic conclusions. So we assume that, of course, the reasons why inflation is higher are primarily domestic at the moment. Yes, there are very rapid domestic consumer pressures. In the last month, this was also shown in statistics, when the so-called "survivor" came back to life. core inflation, which is mainly made up of non-marketable items, can be simply said in particular for service prices. Of course, there is a significant increase in the imputed rent, i.e. the increase in housing costs in general, but also in other services, while the growth in these marketable items is not so significant. So it's very domestic. And, of course, this has to do with the significant wage growth and then consumption. Of course, we are responding to this by increasing the gradual, slow increase in rates. We expect inflation to return to those two percent in the course of the next year, sometime in the midterm, and then to oscillate at this level or slightly around it and essentially stick to it. So, basically, I can confirm that the main source of Czech inflation today, which is, I stress, under control and very moderated within the tolerance band, are mainly domestic inflation pressures related to income and consumption growth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-004-162.u9	Thank you, Mr. Governor. I'm asking if there's anyone else for the debate. If no one, I think that the debate was not long enough to have to repeat the motion for a resolution tabled by the rapporteur. If anyone demands it, of course they do. He doesn't. I conclude the general debate and ask if there is interest in final words. It's not like that. We can therefore proceed to a debate in detail, which I also have no application for. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. This is not the case, so I am also ending the detailed debate. We have two options, respectively. one, because the motion for a resolution is given, and we can therefore vote on the proposal made by the rapporteur. We will decide in the 188 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of taking note of the report. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 188, from 155 to 131 Members present, against no one. We took note of the Czech National Bank's report on inflation - July 2018. Thank you to the Governor of the Czech National Bank, thank you to the rapporteur and finish point 162. Proceeding with Point
