ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u1	1. Motion to express distrust to the Government of the Czech Republic The group of 92 Members exercised its right and pursuant to Section 84 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, submitted a motion for distrust to the Government. Following the agreement of the parties that we have just made, I will ask that the party's chairman, Vice-President Petr Fiala, take the floor, the Civil Democratic Party. Then they will speak to others who have priority rights, as we have made a preliminary agreement. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will now justify our motion for distrust to the government. I may surprise you, but I'm sure we're not actually deciding on the government or the political orientation of the government here today. Even today, we will not vote on the achievements and failures of this government, depending on how one of us sees and evaluates it. But I must say, I must say, that such a subject of decision-making, such a vote, would please me much more than what will follow here today. Unfortunately, it will not be about this vote today. In fact, we're not even voting on a specific person here. We decide here to continue or end one very specific situation. Unsustainable condition in which the constitutional office of Prime Minister was found. The constitutional function of the Prime Minister and, with that, the whole Republic. [[with emphasis]] Therefore, it would be useful for our debate, for our debate and our decision-making, to imagine, for example, that the Prime Minister's name is not Andrej Babiš, but his name is Jan Novák, I apologize to all Jan Novák, but it is simply a common name or something like that. In my opinion, it is useful to relieve myself of the controversial emotion, the positive or negative emotion that the person of the current prime minister is causing. That should not be our decision to stand and fall, and I consider that to be very important. I also consider it important that, instead of repeating the well-known reasons and known facts around the Prime Minister, we answer the following question in particular today instead. And this is what it says: If today we do not express our distrust of the government, if it remains in office as the current Prime Minister, how do we imagine things to continue to work? And do we really want to take responsibility for all the consequences associated with this situation? [[9.10 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have here to do with the most thorough, the greatest conflict of interest that we have not recently imagined even theoretically, which we might have expected in a developing country, above whose democratity and maturity we look forward to, and we are not at all at all. We have a story here about a plot that many mystery writers or political thrillers couldn't write. And our constitutional duty is to protect the integrity of the constitutional function of Prime Minister. And in this case, it is our duty to protect the constitutional function of Prime Minister from himself. Perhaps I would begin by saying that if the Prime Minister remains in office, at no time will we know who is actually speaking to us, how he is acting and why he is acting, whether he is being charged, whether he is co-indicted, whether he is the father, the head of the family, the Prime Minister, Dr Jekyll, or Master Hyde. Whether it is the conduct and conduct of an accused person who wants to minimize the likelihood of his conviction, which is the legitimate interest of every accused person, but it is no longer the legitimate conduct of the Prime Minister, or the conduct of a father who protects his accused children, which is the natural course of each father, and each of us has an understanding of it. In addition, these are children who are charged with him in the same case. It would be understandable and logical for a father to protect them, but this alone makes it impossible for the prime minister to perform his duties in accordance with the Constitution. We will not even know if there are any other common interests of the family, whose several members are facing criminal prosecution, in the negotiations of the Prime Minister and his family, when the very connection between the Prime Minister and his family is already causing a number of undesirable associations, or whether it is at that time, after all, about acting in the constitutional position of the Prime Minister, about such acts and actions that have nothing to do with the personal situation of the Prime Minister. I think that each of us understands, whether you admit it or not, that each of you understands that it is not humanly possible to separate these tasks, even because each of these tasks, to be accused, to be the father of the accused children and to be Prime Minister, each of them is enormously difficult and burdensome in itself. And I say that without irony, I say that with the utmost understanding. But just like everyone else, we understand how hard it is, and we all understand it, and we admit it again, or we don't admit it, you all understand the risks involved. Madam, honourable Members, one of the important responsibilities of each prime minister in his duties is also to protect the constitutional position of the Prime Minister from possible threats, from coercion, blackmail, from attacks on the integrity of this function, and so on, whether it would be done through his own or his closest. And the Prime Minister must also be protected and protect himself from the kind of coercion, extortion, or failure that might be related to his family. But we have come to the point that the Prime Minister cannot do this. He cannot do this because the Prime Minister does not protect the constitutional function of the Prime Minister, on the contrary, he constantly puts him in danger, and today he himself poses a security risk to the constitutional function of the Prime Minister. That is why I am saying, and I am saying this clearly, it is us, the Chamber of Deputies, who today has a constitutional duty to protect the constitutional position of the Prime Minister from himself. We are dealing with a situation that is head-on and which puts other constitutional or other state institutions in an unsolvable situation. Let us answer, for example, the question of how competent state institutions can protect the Prime Minister, which is their duty if his family member in the company of his employee, a Russian citizen, visits Crimea. And in this context, ladies and gentlemen, it is entirely irrelevant to what extent it is voluntary or involuntary. In this situation, how can state authorities protect the position of Prime Minister? Answer your own questions. How are the authorities of the Prime Minister to investigate as a private person while protecting the constitutional function and its integrity? Add to that the fact that his family can't, can't or won't accept and respect the rules that he simply has to accept and respect the Prime Minister's family. Can any of you really imagine how it is possible to protect the integrity of the constitutional function of the Prime Minister, which is, in fact, the strongest executive position in the Czech Republic, as possible under these circumstances? And that, ladies and gentlemen, brings me to the third set of questions that this unbearable situation puts before us. Lawyers say that every trial or judgment must not only be impartial and objective, but must appear to be so. I think this is an important principle. This is an important principle that can be generalized and can also be generalized for our role and for our responsibilities. People have a right to trust the state, and we have a duty to make decisions so that people can really trust and trust the state. Let us ask ourselves how many people in this Republic will believe that any police investigation and decision of prosecutors, and perhaps even the courts, that these decisions will be impartial, that they were not influenced by anyone and nothing in the case of the Prime Minister, who is one of the richest people in this country, while also holding an executively strongest position. Can the belief of impartiality, objectivity and rule of law be maintained here? Or is it more likely, or is it much more likely that doubts will spread here, and please doubt, no matter how this decision of the state authorities and courts ends in the end, either by liberation or by condemnation. The doubt will be there. [[9.20 hours]] The Prime Minister himself has been telling us from the beginning, and here I'm going to quote him as an adjective and that this is a campaign. Ladies and gentlemen, I point out that the Prime Minister here is talking about a police investigation, a prosecutor's trial, a criminal prosecution by the authorities of the Republic. And let's ask again and with all understanding, but let's ask again: does the accused tell us, can we understand that, or does the Prime Minister tell us that as Prime Minister? And then, of course, in each of us, there must be serious concerns about the state of our state, and it also inspires them to the public. Ladies and gentlemen, are we really all aware of the seriousness of the situation, of what we are playing with here, of the devastating effects of such a situation? Not the government, but the perception of people, the belief in the rule of law, the trust in state institutions, everything that is so vital to democracy and our republic. And who in the vast majority of those who do not trust the Prime Minister will believe that this was all by the rules when there is a halt to prosecution or a liberating sentence in any instance? Who? Is that what we want to risk? All this, all this mistrust we want to risk? And that, ladies and gentlemen, is what we have in our hands today, and that is what we are going to decide. And how many people in our republic and beyond will believe that it was simply an innocent accident if a family member of the Prime Minister had gone to the Crimean Republic and happened to be in the company of a Russian citizen, because no one was more appropriate at hand, and then neither was he, and who knows if he was there and who was there, and why was there? And can citizens, for example, trust a proper and undisturbed choice of a police president by a government headed by a prime minister with such a conflict of interest? Can citizens believe that? Again, I have great sympathy for life's complications, I have great sympathy for difficult situations that one can get into within one's family. And I'm sure you've noticed, ladies and gentlemen, that I'm deliberately avoiding names here, because we're not going to vote here today on names, or the health of family members, or obstruction or obstruction of investigations. We're not going to vote on all this. We will vote on the constitutional position of the Prime Minister. This is serious business. Today we decide whether we will admit whether, in the present situation of personal and family problems and doubts and question marks, this is a new acceptable standard for the constitutional function of the Prime Minister, that we consider these strange interlocks of relationships and persons and this fantastic world of conflicts of interest to be a tolerable equipment for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. And I believe that it is our duty to say no, we do not consider such an acceptable equipment, we do not consider such a standard. This must not become the norm for the constitutional position of Prime Minister in the Czech Republic. It is absurd for the Czech Republic to be led by the Prime Minister with so many problems. It is unacceptable for such a person to have any influence on the conduct of law enforcement authorities. It's incomprehensible that this doesn't bother the coalition partners. It is naive to think that the Prime Minister, with these personal pressures and family problems, understands the problem in every situation, and that the Czech Republic will always be first for him and not the prosecuted family. It is cowardly to say that part of the opposition or the entire opposition is responsible for the situation. Sadly, we are beginning to resemble some third world countries in this matter, and it is unfortunate that for a year and a half we have been working on the personal and criminal problems of the Prime Minister and his family over and over again. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the main reasons why we called on the Prime Minister to resign and why we are ready to voice distrust to the government. We are sure that in this situation it is the only possible and responsible action for our state. The only possible and responsible actions in favour of our state to protect constitutional institutions, to maintain confidence in the rule of law, and to finally solve our country's problems together instead of the Prime Minister's personal problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. According to Mrs Kozlová, whose apology I have read, she is present, so she cancels her apology. Marta Nováková apologizes to the Minister of Industry and Trade, as she represents the Prime Minister at the Digital Czech Republic conference with the participation of the Estonian Prime Minister. I have not yet opened the debate, and now, after agreement, representatives of individual membership clubs will speak by size, but Prime Minister Babiš first came forward with priority rights, so I will give it my say. Then the individual priority rights would follow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you in advance for giving me your time and attention. Do you understand what's happened here in the last two weeks? Did you understand that two journalists here tried to knock down the government based on a report that took advantage of my sick son? They've lied, they haven't checked, they've been pushing, they've kept important facts secret, they've hurt my family. And some of you fell for it, and they liked to play the game for almost two weeks. Not only you, but also the media, public, commercial, all possible servers. Journalists chased me like a hunter, like a criminal, like a man who had his son kidnapped. Remember what headline was given to the whole report on Monday, November 12, 2018. Do you remember that? Slonková and Kubík tracked down Babišův's missing son. On their Twitter, these campaign mercenaries against Babiš reported that Prime Minister Babiš's son was talking about his involuntary possession of Crimea. Disappeared? Disappeared how? The Czech police knew, they knew about him, Interpol knew about him. And I was visiting him. And my son Andrej Babiš, a Swiss citizen - yes, has a citizenship of Switzerland for more than ten years - was at home with his mother, in the apartment where he lives. So what kind of involuntary possession? Involuntary possession - is anyone serious? I hope you all understand today that my son was on a trip to Crimea, where he met his girlfriend. I guess that's a problem for somebody. The girlfriend he's engaged to right now, and I love it. So I would like to start by asking myself, if you are all listening well, how do those so-called investigative journalists work? I gave the interview to the Czech Radio yesterday and the interview was cut, edited. Why? Well, because the so-called investigative journalist Janek Kroupa, who, based on a fictional report, put Commissioner Věra Jourová in prison - and, by the way, her daughter also ended up with a psychiatrist - it's okay for someone to destroy the family. So the missing son? Lie! Involuntary possession? Lie too! But these lies did the whole thing. And these lies had a clear goal from the start - the fall of the government. Don't you think it's awful that something like this could happen in our country? Plus, when I was on a trip abroad in Palermo, I was on the road for four days, and I couldn't fight back right away. That's what they blamed me for. Scandal, he didn't react until 18 hours later. That's why I called the whole thing "Palermo pawn." [[9.30 hours]] Timed. Before November 17th, so that the already heated atmosphere against me and our government will escalate. It's these two so-called journalists that we can thank for throwing flowers from the memorial site into the trash at the National Class. All the media in one piece. Everyone was clear. Everyone condemned Babiš with lightning again and asked him to step down. And you know why I didn't? Yes, because the truth is on my side, and I hope most of you understand. That's why I won't bother you with the whole long story you've heard so many times. I'll just say the essentials and answer the essential questions. First. Is my son sick? Who started this debate about my kids? It wasn't me. [[Laughter from the right.]] And of course, yes, it was the reporters. And those who were on the mandate and immunity committee - I don't know why you're laughing, in the file, so they knew. And so did the journalists who began to question it. And of course, that's not easy for me to talk about, but I have to talk about it because I didn't have a choice, unfortunately. I was describing to the journalists how the police called me on July 17, 2015, that they had my son Andrej Babiš Jr. in a car on D1 and had him transferred to a psychiatric facility in Havlíčkův Brod. Remember his boyfriend, or de facto, because he cared for him like his own brother, how Protopopov said that at that time my son told the police that he had a bomb in his car and his name was George Clooney. Do you remember that? Of course, no one believed him, they questioned him. This was the first time that our son's illness had become significant. Someone's questioning the disease. Do you know how many people have that misfortune? And one of our former colleagues wrote me the greatest extreme of this disease. She has a wife, she has four children with her, and when her wife unfortunately got this disease, she said she didn't have any children or a husband. So back then, Professor Höschl helped me get my son transferred to the NUDZ Institute. I came to the institution to see my son, and I met the attending physician who was assigned to him, Mrs. Protopopová. Of course, today's comment is distorted. And according to Professor Höschl, she is a reliable and good doctor. But even so, the press didn't believe. Yesterday, the server iRozlas published the decision of the court to take over the institutional care requested by activist Tomáš Pecina. I don't know who that is. I was shocked, and believe me, I didn't read it well. None of you would want to read that stuff about your son. And wonder for the world, this last decision is a word-to-word confirmation of what I or Mr. Protopopov said. Even my opponents on social media had to admit that one by one. Terrible thing for them that I told the truth. And I must say, my son Andrej's illness is heavy. My son is suffering from schizophrenia, and perhaps you journalists have learned a little bit now that so many articles and interviews of psychiatrists have come out in the last few days, and hopefully you already know what it takes. Question two. Are Mr. Protopopov and his wife agents? Absurd. Yes, such absurd questions were raised. Again, no one believed me. Doctor Dita Protopopová has been very helpful to us, and once again, thank you very much for everything. She treated my son and advised us to find a guardian to help him return to society because she is promoting the reform of our psychiatric care as it is in the UK. Not to lock up patients in Bohnice and in institutions, but to treat them and try in their everyday life, in their everyday life and to help. She treated my son and recommended us, me, to find a guardian to help her return to society. I didn't find anyone because it's not easy. My son's mother had other duties, so I asked her to help her husband. And Mr. Protopopov made friends with my son, and I was so happy about it. He's the one who knows something about it. He knows how difficult it must have been. I don't want to go into details, but my son worked with Mr. Protopopov, spent time with him, went on vacation, skiing, cycling. And that they went on a trip to Russia? So what? Here we were making a problem that Mr. Vondráček went to Russia and Professor Adámková went to Russia because we hadn't arranged for our citizens for ten years to take care of them when they had a problem. ano, Mr. Protopopov is Russian, Russian, he knows his way around. He took my son somewhere where he could take care of him if he needed to. But of course, that's what happened, it came January 2017, the case started. We remember the meeting, the Treasury Secretary's tax fraud. Of course there weren't any, and the police put it off because it's nonsense. And then, of course, a criminal report on the stork's nest. After ten years, someone remembered the čapí's nest. I mean, my kids, when they bought the company and started the company, it was 2007, weighing, 2007. Ten years. And, of course, the reporters immediately started a crazy hunt on me, my family, and my son. By the way, the hunt is still going on. Imagine that last night, at 7:30 p.m., an editor from Respekt was banging on the door of my wife's brother who had dinner with his family. 7:30. Journalists feel like they can do anything. And when this crazy hunt started, they waited everywhere for him, they chased him, so the pressure was enormous. In front of my son's house for days was Skoda Octavia from the List. Journalists tried to catch him everywhere. So I guess you can imagine what it must have been like for my sick son. He quite logically accepted with his doctor and guardian that they would leave the Czech Republic so that his health would not deteriorate. I think it's logical. Moscow and then Crimea, and when their visas expired, they returned. Of course, I didn't know about every visit, sometimes I got a picture, and it wasn't until now that I actually learned exactly how it all worked out. I knew my son had found a girlfriend, and that was great news for me, and I was so happy about it. Anyway, now that someone's talking about security risks because they were in Crimea, all I have to do is smile. One. You've probably heard that the Security Information Service has checked into Protopova's Protopopův and found no connection to Russian intelligence. Of course, logically. Two. When someone here claims that they left for Crimea while I was Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, he lies because they left there in September and October, and I was neither Minister nor Prime Minister. [[9.40 hours]] And three. Everyone knows, and that may be the problem with my enemies, that I am incorruptible and that we belong to NATO structures, that we are part of the European Union, that we have released the hacker Nikulin to the United States, that we have been in solidarity with the Great Britain in the Skripal case. And I say that every time I shake hands with European world statesmen. So who and how would want to change that? So what's the risk? I really don't understand that I'm a risk. My son is 35 years old and is a Slovak and Swiss citizen. And that's a risk? I'm a risk? Ridiculous. Question three: was it a kidnapping? I think it's an incredible question. Who thinks I let my son get kidnapped? Is everybody crazy? Kids are the most valuable thing to parents, and I'm sure they are. And all these different comments. I had something rewritten, the editor asked yesterday: did you have it rewritten? The mowing, so far ahead, so there's that suggestive question. Unbelievable. So I'll just say that at the time my son wrote a letter about the kidnapping to the police, Mr. Protopopov was in Prague and my son and his current fiancée were at her home in Ukraine. So the distance between the alleged kidnapper and the kidnapped 1,000, 500 kilometers. The caretaker went to the police, told them everything, and then brought my son to his mother and presented evidence to the police. The findings of the investigation were logical and clear. Kidnapping didn't happen. He wrote an article about it iRozhlas, please nicely, again iRozhlas. That's what everyone in this country believes. Isn't it? I quote from the text of the article iRozhlas published on 30 May 2018: "The police have been investigating the abduction of Babišův's son. The findings of the investigation did not confirm the suspicion." And they continue: "The investigation revealed that no such action had taken place. " But again, it wasn't enough for someone. But I don't have a problem. Have Special Branch re-examine it. He can do it over and over and over and over again, he'll only find out the truth that the kidnapping didn't happen. Last, fourth question: what about the two reporters? Yes, I'm talking about those who got a tip from someone with an address where my family lives. Then I'll leave it up to you, fellow Members, what I mean, and everyone will think about it. I'm talking about those guys who recorded on the camera in their glasses that one of the residents of the house was entering a code on the front door of the house, and they snuck in. And he's bragging about it. Those who had this incredible conversation with my sick son, the suggestive questions, the manipulation. And in all that, they secretly filmed him on two cameras. One in glasses, the other in the lapel. The whole thing was awful, and a lot of people noticed it. And even those who don't like me, who don't vote for me, write to me and say, "That's really too much, that's over the line. And what was the main message? What did those two reporters catch? Anyway, nothing new, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, my sick kid repeated his version of the story he had told the police before, and he even wrote an e-mail to Blesk once. That's what I learned from Blesk. A version of a story that was ruled out twice by the police, his doctor, his guardian, and myself. My first wife's attorney and my son filed a criminal complaint yesterday against Mrs. Slonková and Mr. Kubík for violating Swiss law. In violation of Swiss law, they recorded an interview with him. They didn't tell him they were filming it. Yes, folks, it's criminal in Switzerland. Yesterday, a criminal complaint was filed with the Swiss prosecutor. And I wouldn't be surprised if Dr. Protopopová considered the criminal report, too. People are protesting against her in the squares. Why? She has a child, too. What did she do? The lady everyone started attacking, the public, mocking her work, her erudics, her expertise. And based on the pressure, she left the National Institute of Mental Health. That's awful, folks, terrible. And yet I want to thank her once more for her work because she really has very modern views on caring for patients who have psychological problems. So, ladies and gentlemen, do you know what I've heard in the last few days and what some people have been telling me? They say the press knew there was going to be a story on the air that was about to knock down the government before. I heard all the newsrooms were supposed to be on brands, and they're supposed to be running it big right now. They said they had the politicians' reactions prepared in advance, so they wouldn't lose a minute. They said they put the whole paper on the list, and it was supposed to chase me every step of the way. I don't know, but if I put the whole thing together, I just have to talk about journalistic hyenas. You can't blame me, ladies and gentlemen. And you wanted to knock down the government after all? Did you really want to use such hyenism to destabilize our country? I've already said that I'm never going to resign because of this whole pseudo-aférea. And now, colleagues, colleagues, I want to tell you why I'm not going to do this. Most of you interpreted my statement last week in such a way that I do not respect democratic principles that I hope to restrict freedom in our country. Of course, it is factual nonsense for anyone who has ever read the Constitution, and it is also a rather poor argument of my political opponents, and unfortunately it is still lying, traditional Czech politicians, in some with a rich corruption history. I was surprised last night that some people were talking about corruption. They don't even know what corruption is. Or he's talking about supposedly my son was supposed to be avoiding an investigation for two years. The interrogations started less than a year ago. So one lie after another. So that's why I'm not resigning on the basis of a lying and deeply unethical report from the List, which belongs to Mr Lukačovič. Even our government certainly has no reason to resign. I think we can be one of the most successful governments in our modern history, because we actually work and it would be good for all of us who watch us on TV or on Facebook and Twitter that we actually work. We work - and now I'm not speaking for myself here, but I know that even colleagues - seven days a week. Yes, I'm going to Austria tomorrow, I'm having dinner with the Austrian Prime Minister, there's a concert of the Czech Philharmonic to 100 years of founding Czechoslovakia, I'm flying to Brussels on Sunday morning for the European Brexit Summit. And I have to laugh when someone says it hurts us abroad. No. Journalists and politicians are hurting us abroad. There haven't been as many statesmen and politicians in my life as in our government, from the French President, the German Chancellor, the Estonian Prime Minister is here. Yesterday on TV, one of our colleagues said incredible things. The Czech Republic can finally be seen. We were seen in Paris. Four days later, I spoke to more politicians than maybe all of the opposition Members in my life. And that no one comes to our house? Really? So by Christmas, the Serbian Prime Minister, the Korean President, the Finnish Prime Minister, the Hungarian Prime Minister, will be here. And how many came in that time? Lots of them came in. And the Czech Republic is heard at the European Council and abroad. And believe me, none of those politicians, those prime ministers and presidents, really have a problem with me. He doesn't. [[9.50 hours]] So I just want to say that our country is incredibly successful. We have huge values, we are the sixth safest country in the world. That's a huge amount of value. The seventh most peaceful country in the world. Our economy is growing. Only this year will we have GDP growth by three percent. We have the lowest unemployment, we invest, we raise pensions, we raise salaries, we put forward a great budget. And that is precisely why we are doing well, and that is why the opposition wants to destroy our government. ODS and TOP 09, who showed us a record long and useless recession that indebted us, 670 billion. When I was Minister of Finance, I reduced my debt by 73 billion. So we have prepared a very good budget and the government is counting on a better development of state finances, we have a better budget perspective. And we cannot approach the idea of an opposition that naively thinks that there should be a budget in surplus. But in the finals, the result is essential. And 2016 was surplus and 2017 was balanced. And Secretary Schillerová promised that we would try again to end up with a balanced budget. We are one of Europe's least-indebted countries, which we all envy. Indeed, we can set an example for other countries. So the opposition says that we are in surplus and that we should cut massively in the state budget. They who were unable to improve tax collection and avoid tax evasion. And we experienced the crisis in 2011 and 2012 under the ODS and TOP 09. Of course, they brought stagnation and a decline in the economy, while the surrounding countries developed. ODS and TOP 09 don't want to remember that anymore. They say it's not us, it's the ones before us. But I think people remember. And I think very well. Many have also certainly not forgotten the wage cuts in the budgetary sphere that the then government served civil servants due to its inability. This is why we are still dealing with low salaries, for example, for firefighters whose salaries have been reduced as well as police officers and others. It's only this year that some of them get to their original salaries. And until next year, they'll take more than 2012. Yes, because we collected the taxes and even reduced taxes. And let's not forget that there were big strikes back then. When the opponents of the government filled the entire Wenceslas Square, there weren't 30,000 of them, but there were over 100,000 of them. I mean, a record, though sad. So, dear opposition, esteemed Democratic bloc, you really want to cut 50 to 70 billion? So let's try to talk about it. I don't know. Where are we going to cut, where exactly? In social expenses, in the salaries of teachers or other civil servants? Or are we just going to call off an increase in pensions, or are we going to stop the participation of the state budget in the drawing of European funds, slowing down the construction of infrastructure? We tried that on behalf of your governments. I don't think we're gonna do anything about it. And I can assure you of that. We're doing the opposite. Our government has moved frozen infrastructure structures. We're building 176.5 kilometers of highways and first-class roads. We have prepared 53 kilometers of motorways and roads, starting in 2018 or with an overlay until 2019. By 2021, we will build 210 kilometers of new highways. Yes, we are in favour of a responsible budgetary policy. But we will never accept the destructive game of opposition - the worse for people, the better for some politicians. Because we are well aware of our responsibilities, we will never allow such an adventure. We're not gonna ruin the fact that we're doing so well. We have the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. Lack of labour prevents us from developing even faster. Unfortunately, our resources - although we may have to look at those people who are supposedly working black, 250,000 people - are exhausted and we are looking for new labour in Eastern Europe. That is why our government has also made arrangements for the arrival of workers from Ukraine, which we are reducing from six months to less than three months. Our government has also improved the lives of seniors. The increase of old-age pensions by an average of 900 crowns is the largest in many, many years. And I would also stress, above all, the improvement in the situation of older pensioners, which our government increases pension by a thousand crowns after reaching the age of 85 years. And we've found the courage to do that because we think these people deserve it. Everyone knows ODS and TOP 09 don't care about seniors. I'm a senior myself, so, of course, I have a very strong relationship with seniors. We also introduced a discount on transport for people over 65 years of age and also for students under 26 years of age. It is a small improvement for many of those who can now travel without difficulty to their relatives or to take care of the necessary things. In a short period of time, our government has circled all the regions to get acquainted with the situation directly in the field. Everyone laughed at us for making promises. No. We went to the county to get the topics, then put them in the budget and meet the demands of the mayors and the captains. Yes, now there was a 600 million MMR program for kindergarten. Sold out in 16 seconds. Now there'll be another 600. And there's still two and a half billion to be transferred. We finally found four billion missing from health care. Because we were looking for European money that we couldn't use because it was allocated to things that we didn't even want to draw. So we're preparing this long-term investment plan for 12 years. And we want to divide it into 2020-21 and, of course, it's going to be a magazine that the next governments can draw from. We're also dealing with housing. For young people under the age of 36 we have allocated 650 million this year and it will be one billion next year. We've reduced the gambling. Thanks to us, 9 300 slot machines have disappeared from the premises. In addition, 600 million per year will go to strengthen studies at medical faculties, and in the next eleven years it will be 7 billion. I mean, it's absurd for two and a half thousand students to take exams every year and not get into medical school when we're short of doctors. We have sent new laws or their amendments to Parliament. I consider the bill on speeding up the construction of transport infrastructure to be the most important. We expect him to significantly accelerate the lengthy authorisation procedure for line construction. And we want to amend other laws. Like the Investment Incentives Act, which we are planning to significantly reduce, because we have provided 53 billion tax advantages over the last few years, and we really just want high-tech. This week, I visited a BMW with Minister Nováková, who wants to invest in the circuit for autonomous vehicles. And it's really high-tech. And we also visited the Industry 4.0 factory in Amberg Siemens, the most efficient factory in the world. So we're in a situation where we can really choose. Our economic strategy is clear. Science and research and final production. In Brussels, I lobbied the President of the European Commission for a center of excellence for artificial intelligence. That's very important to us. We will introduce the amendment to the Health Insurance Act from July next year. We'll introduce an electronic disability, another important step towards the electronization of health care. We have also increased salaries in public services, social administration, health workers, tariffs, pedagogical by 10 percent, health professionals by seven and so on. One last thing. For next year we agreed on a minimum wage of CZK 13,350. And, of course, there are so many things that we need to do. [[10.00 hours]] And we also went back to Europe. Well, because we're active. Because, in fact, in six months' time, we've made it clear that there will be no quotas, that no one will decide on migration to us. That we will decide, our companies, institutions, schools, we will decide who will work in our country and who will live here. And we canceled those senseless quotas, and six months from now, just like I promised. So today we are in the position of respected participants in all negotiations at the level of the highest leadership of the European Union. Yes, and we certainly are not among those who already approve in advance what comes from Brussels. I could give you a number of examples where we defend our national interests. For four and a half years, I advocated our fight for reverse charge. It's the only proposal our country has ever made. So we fight for our interests, we speak clearly, yes, we are pro-European, but on the other hand we say out loud what we like and what we do not like. Of course digitalization is very important. I'm very glad the Estonian Prime Minister, my friend Jüri Ratas, came last night. And today he was officially admitted at 7:30 a.m. because we have an important House program today. And right now, at 10 o'clock, the digitalization conference begins. We have a government agent who has government support, the Prime Minister's support, and it's great, because, of course, we've had a little bit of a time in digitalization. And today at the press conference, the Estonian Prime Minister made it clear. We also have a goal for all tax returns to be filed in two minutes, as 95 percent of Estonia's population does. So our country is great, we have a great future, and our government is successful. Therefore, if the opposition has nothing else but an anti-Babish program, I understand today's negotiations. I understand. I understand that there is a need to destroy this successful government. And this crisis, which, of course, is organized, because our government works, works, although we sit around at six o'clock in the morning, we had a common government with Poland, etc., so this crisis caused by it, it really is an unethical and dirty crisis that is taking advantage of my sick son and deliberately distorting all the facts. So the question is, where else can you go down? The government is now under pressure from those political forces that are still unwilling to accept the results of democratic elections. They'd like a different election result. I understand. And those who have lost the election prefer to plunge our country into a deep political crisis without a clear solution. Exactly according to the password, the worse it gets for people, the worse it gets for our country, the better it gets for our opposition. I don't know what the plan is. What's plan B? If, of course, the strategy, I understand what the opposition is saying. If we can't rule alone, let no one rule! That's the only plan. In fact, we are in a situation where part of the politicians are calling on society to disregard the results of free democratic elections. The society is divided and the opposition parasites and even deepens the conflict within society. Once again, we see how part of the political class wants to claim some public holidays so that only some and others can remember them. Someone can put the flowers to memory and somebody else can't? Do those politicians who approve of such negotiations realize that they are redistributing society into those who can do anything because they are the owners of a higher truth, and on the other hand, do those who are expelled from society who are inferior? Do we really want that kind of company? And I say for myself, I don't want a company where a few of the chosen can do anything, and most can't do anything! I don't even think it's possible to vote in an election. That's why I'm going to fight the divisions with all my strength. Against the distribution of our society. We have to get together. We have to go back to where we were. To the top of Europe. And we're going there one by one. So I'm convinced that reasonable people will support it. I get thousands of e-mails, text messages, and I'm so glad and thank you all, and I'm sorry I can't answer them. Thank you, everyone. Therefore, in this situation, I have no reason to withdraw. You either have to call me off or try to beat us in free democratic elections. And then it'll be obvious. So other than most of our society, our citizens, you just can't get rid of me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. Now I will give the representatives of each member's club or party, we have agreed on the size. Coincidentally, President Bartoš will now appear, who has also been the first to sign up on Tuesday. So we're still following the order here. Then they would always perform according to the size of the clubs. Then Vice-President Okamura and then Vice-President Filip will be prepared. As these priority rights, who will manage, will also end, will open the debate and we will proceed in a standard way. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u6	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, citizens, quality of life and democracy is not a leader in the success of companies. It is not enough for the country to be led by the most predatory manager or the most audible. The government should be led by an ethical, moral, and decent person who has credit even in front of his political opponents. I just don't see such a person leading the current government with the best of will. From the perspective of a citizen of the Czech Republic, the election is not only won by the highest percentage of votes cast, but by the one who can form a functional and stable government. A government that moves the Czech Republic forward. A government that competes healthyly with the opposition. Such a government just doesn't have to worry about its fall all the time. But this government is not like that. The difference between what the government on one side is saying and what it is actually doing is really huge. There are a number of reasons for distrust. Some of them certainly concern major conflicts of interest, scandals and affairs around the Prime Minister and others. But let us look at the work of this government as a whole. There are many capable, clever, clever people in our country. Yet people have legitimate concerns about both the present and the future. It's as if our country is running away instead of releasing the much-needed potential, the life-giving potential of human freedom and creativity. We have an outdated education and education system that raises people to be obedient to repetition rather than to creativity and critical thinking. This is an absolutely fundamental problem which, in our view, the government of YES, the Social Democrats with the support of the communists will never solve, because it is not in the interests of its representatives. Adding to educators, although not according to the promised scenario, is certainly a positive step. However, the opening of education and the overall attractiveness of the work of teaching staff is not taking place. The new energy is not expected again by our education. In itself, education is a fundamental value and a cure for most of the ills that our country suffers from. No less outdated, we have public administration and authorities, which are more hostile to citizens because of the rules set, than to perform for them the services for which citizens pay for them. The vision of the digital Czech Republic has no support in the budget in 2019. So for a much needed revolution in public administration, there is no government that solves itself, its problems, its PR, its time, and its finances. However, I hope that thanks to the help of the pirát and the opposition, at least the law on the right to digital service will be launched, which will oblige every government to ensure that the promised digitalisation of services is actually delivered to citizens and not just on the billboards and marketing books of the current Prime Minister. [[10.10 hours]] The sad fact is that despite the economic boom, we have that deficit budget, and a significant part of Czech society is struggling with poverty, which is based on the very setting of the system and the laws. After all, no other country in the European Union suffers from legislation that puts people in debt traps and executions as much as the Czech Republic. Again, it is we pirát who are trying to remedy this situation at the moment when the government itself fails to implement its own programming declaration. The distrust of citizens in the future is also caused by ostentatious disbelief, with which not only this government, but also the governments of the past, place their people in important strategic bodies and businesses, not transparently, with emphasis on loyalty rather than expertise. There was no change here. Let's finally change this game. It is high time state-owned enterprises published their contracts without exceptions that merely cover political interests. It is also high time that experts were nominated for important bodies, publicly and transparently. And it is also high time that this state served citizens, not the other way around. In an atmosphere where the state does not serve, but is arrogant, society breathes only with great difficulty, let alone to really grow and thrive. This new political non-culture that we are witnessing, and often also the vulgarity and behaviour of constitutional actors, bring down people's trust, but also create new wounds in the reputation of our country and our partners, both in the EU and in NATO. The Prime Minister's family is really none of my business. However, if he has allowed suspicions of subsidy fraud investigated by the police to include moments that would not be lost in political thrillers and which may pose a risk to the security of the Czech Republic, it is appropriate to ask whether his personal interest outweighs the interest of citizens. Unfortunately, there are too many indications that this is the case. And once again, it would be great if we could deal with the future and prosperity of the Czech Republic instead of the Prime Minister's scandals here. The pirates have already refused twice to support the government with a criminally prosecuted prime minister in conflict of interest with ministers whose competence we have already experienced in the previous government. The pirate post-election strategy document, which we published before the previous elections, clearly shows the conditions of the pirát for participation, support or tolerance to the government. The past and the current government, through persons in ministerial posts, specifically the person of Andrej Babiš in the presidency, but also due to the factual support of the votes of the anti-democratic parties, did not meet these conditions and today does not meet them all the more. For the first time, the government did not gain confidence. The second time with the support of the ČSSD and the communists already do. And I want to appeal to Members and Government Parties to consider whether they want to see a government with a criminally prosecuted prime minister in the Czech Republic accompanied by worse and worse scandals and fitness in the quarter, and this will continue. If the Prime Minister really cares about the good of this country, as he constantly claims in his speeches, let him resign. If he does not do so and insists that he never withdraws, I would like to warn him that he is not the only one with endurance. They're gonna crack the ice eventually. The world is facing the rise of populism and authoritarianism. And I would like this soulless selfishness not to take this country from a better path to a more free future. We pirát will continue to work to make sure that doesn't happen. We know that even if this fight may seem donkichotian in the short term, it will always take an interest in the long term. The aim of the pirát is a free, educated and digitally connected society. In this direction, however, the current government does not lead the Czech Republic to the benefit of its citizens and, according to experience from the first year of Andrej Babiš, it will not lead the Czech Republic as Prime Minister. Thus, for the third time today, the pirates will express their distrust of this government with unbreakable faith that change is indeed possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u7	That was Chairman Ivan Bartoš. Now with priority rights, Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura. Before the words are taken, Colleague Onderka has a replacement card number 16. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the members of the SPD will vote in favour of distrust of this government, where the CSSD is. There's no other way. This government not only arose without our trust, but is constantly promoting a programme contrary to the SPD programme. I'll be specific. This government of the YES, ČSSD and KSČM movement has proposed increasing social benefits inadaptable since next year. She refused to help people in debt traps, and on the other hand, she helped blackmailers with a new law. He's pushing for an increase in the salaries of politicians. He wants to send Czech soldiers to combat missions abroad. He rejects the referendum law, including the referendum on the Czech Republic's membership in the European Union. They add more money to political non-profit organizations at the expense of raising pensions. And it also promotes e.g. the urgent adoption of the Istanbul Convention. Thus, this government did not gain our trust even during its current term of office. It is necessary to replace ČSSD with SPD. Moreover, the current government is a schizophrenic blind man made up of people who hold absolutely contradictory philosophical and political views. This government in this composition was created under massive pressure from the Czech so-called. mainstream media and international lobby. The Prime Minister may argue that he has added money to the elderly and some other people. Yes, that's good, but we all know that it was also thanks to the votes of the SPD. Perhaps the Prime Minister also thinks that he has accepted, literally and to the letter, all the SPD's thesis on mass and illegal migration. But that's not true. Just look at how MEPs vote for YES and ČSSD - they vote for migration. And we all see it. On the other hand, we are, of course, glad that after the SPD opened up a debate in the House in September on the UN Global Pact on Migration and as the only ones we asked the government to reject it, and the government and Andrej Babiš did not want to reject it in the vote, the government finally agreed to our proposal and the Czech Republic joined countries that reject the UN Global Pact on Migration, even though government negotiators had agreed to the global pact until recently. However, the government of the YES, ČSSD and KSČM is promoting the adoption of other international conventions, which are completely comparable by their unacceptable nature. I am referring to the Istanbul Convention, which is a lifelong threat to our state and our nation, as this is the destruction of traditional European values, without which we will not survive as a nation and a civilization. A few days ago, this week, the Equal Opportunities Council, under the direct Presidency of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, called for an accelerated signature, respectively. the adoption of the Istanbul Convention in the House. And this resolution by the Council of Governments explicitly calls for us to adopt this convention urgently - and I stress again, I also looked at the photograph, at the head of this meeting right in the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, sitting right there, directly agreed. The Istanbul Convention explicitly calls on signatories to eradicate customs and traditions based on the stereotypical understanding of the roles of men and women. The adoption of this Convention is totally unacceptable for the SPD. Another to the SPD is an unacceptable proposal by government MPs, with whom the SPD disagrees, a proposal that turns to the ruins of value rankings and says that husbands are not a man and a woman, and tries to get us to accept as a standard that a real complete family is not a father and mother, that there is no bride and groom at the wedding, and that a child can have two fathers, two mothers, and, on the other hand, no mother or no father. Of course, we also have problems on other topics. The government led by Andrej Babiš, in the coalition with ČSSD and with the support of the KSČM, also rejects the bill on referendum, which would really be functional. And, of course, he refuses to allow people to vote on our membership of the European Union in a referendum, even though MEPs from the ANO and the CSSD movement at the seminar to the referendum law have heard the 100% consensus of constitutional lawyers that the only draft law which is in agreement with the Constitution is the SPD proposal, precisely because it allows citizens to decide what does not contradict the Constitution. [[10.20 hours]] The problem for the SPD is also that this government permanently undermines businessmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. On the contrary, the SPD movement supports and promotes the reduction of bureaucracy. This government also refuses to solve dysfunctional justice, usury, problems in education or worsening access to health care. And I think that's what citizens see in their everyday lives. There are also major problems in the area of transport infrastructure. Let us look at the quality of some roads, and this has already ruled the coalition of the ANO and the ČSSD movement for five years. And there's another big problem, and that's the CSSD. While the YES movement is to some extent pragmatic, which is willing to adopt good opinions, let us see, for example, how the YES movement adopted some views on migration from the SPD, that is certainly a positive part of the current leadership of the ČSSD are people affected by a neomarxist ideology, which, in the name of so-called good in quotation marks, wants to cut down the forest head in spite of people, democracy and common sense. Although the ČSSD has been trying to reverse Mr. Bohuslav Sobotka's disaster after the electoral downturn, further developments in the ČSSD have shown that they have much more in the leadership of the Sobotek. ČSSD does not go the way of self-aflexion, it does not make politics beneficial to citizens and on the basis of common sense, but vice versa. The Minister of Foreign Affairs for the ČSSD is Mr. Poche's assistant, an avid skater and a welcome migrant. And these and other ČSSD people argue that European national states should dissolve in Europe of the regions and that it is necessary to nationalize European nations best by removing their traditions, cultures, beliefs and mixing races and cultures so that both Čech, Ital and Němec may have common ancestors in the future somewhere in Somalia. With amazement, I must add another reason not to vote for this government. If the government is not believed and voted for by coalition MPs and ministers of the ČSSD, and even the first vice-president of this government in the ČSSD will not vote against the vote of distrust, it is certainly a signal that such a composed government does not deserve or want confidence. By this decision, ČSSD itself publicly declares that this government is not even worth their vote. And in this regard, it can only be agreed. The SPD movement is a constructive positive force that promotes a programme for better lives of decent, proper and working people, more security and justice. That is why, at the same time as the criticism of the current government's actions, we consistently offer a real government alternative without the ČSSD, and that is the creation of a government of experts selected by the election winner, the ANO movement, which will commit itself in writing and with a precise timetable to fulfilling the SPD's programme points. It is a stable variant for the Czech Republic, which would bring more money, security and justice to workers and decent citizens thanks to the SPD programme. And we are based on the facts, and that is simply the real fact that President Miloš Zeman has made it clear that he is also the Prime Minister of Andrej Babiš for the third time. So there are two ways. The first was chosen by the so-called Democratic bloc with Pirates and ODS, destabilization and media lynch. The other way is the one that offers the SPD, the path of positive work for better citizens' lives, which is based on a given political reality. The SPD movement does not seek positions in government, i.e. a warm government corset, the SPD wants to enforce our political agenda. And we don't want to be part of the government where the prime minister is convicted. At the same time, we call on the police to investigate the Chapi Nest case as quickly as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time we are also aware that today's vote is also part of an attempt to revolutionise the Brussels globalists in part in Slovakia. Hyenism, with which the media and some opposition politicians are willing to fanate and manipulate the crowds on the street, has abandoned any moral standards. The advocates of the referendum law are called fascists. At today's anti-government events, people wear posters that wish the president dead. The director of Teplice Gymnasium sends portraits of a directly elected president to compost. And the victims of Brussels, immigration and anti-national manipulation are already children in primary schools. When the mob protestively throws flowers into the trash placed by the President, Prime Minister and Vice-President of the House, not only a part of the fanatical crowd is applauding this today, but even a number of politicians agree. Indeed, times are serious, and democracy that we have not been able to build is in grave danger, because the fanatical crowd on the street, led by failed politicians, refuses to accept the results of regular democratic elections. And the Brussels media, including public Czech Television and Czech Radio, are manipulating public opinion against the existing constitutional structure. Ladies and gentlemen, these are all the reasons why we propose the YES movement to support a minority government of experts that we would not participate in ourselves, in exchange for support and enforcement of SPD programming points. At a time when so-called elites betray their country, we ask and advocate a government that will not betray national interests and, on the contrary, a government that will guarantee the freedom, democracy and the defence of our country's sovereignty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. Vice-President Filip will now appear as President of the KSČM. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u10	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, allow me, in my speech, to basically follow up on the opening words of the President of the ODS and Vice-President of the House of Petr Fiala, who has made it clear that today's vote is not about whether or not the government is fulfilling the programme. I'm gonna stick to it, too, and I'm gonna take the liberty of calling my performance by a famous and popular dog-twisting movie because that's what this is all about. [[Strongly.]] Let me first quote an overview of media statements, and why I am convinced that it is not really whether the government is carrying out or failing to implement a programming statement, whether it is working or not, but that it is something completely different. If we look at this case in specific numbers, let me quote it, and all the numbers I'm going to quote are taken from the NEWTON Media media server, which monitors almost 2,000 media titles of all the groups that are issued in the Czech Republic. First, what preceded the publication of an interview with the son of Andrej Babiš. On October 29th, within three days, 150 media materials were published to extend the lifetime of Dukovan by up to ten years. Most of them mentioned that Prime Minister Andrej Babiš held this view. There is therefore a legitimate concern of the opposition that it might not be the largest investment in the Czech Republic in history. October 30 - an even higher number of media titles, about 200, informed about the fact that the Police of the Czech Republic will not prosecute Agrofert a. s. for bonds. This is a great disillusionment of the right-wing opposition, because it was one of the arguments that was therefore lost, and investigators postponed the investigation because it was not a criminal offence. On November 10th, the day before the so-called shocking video was published, a total of 475 media materials were published, which mentioned the Prime Minister, but the topic was a meeting of hundreds of statesmen in Paris. There wasn't a word about the Prime Minister's son. [[10.30 hours]] So the case broke out on November 12th, and the report by Sabina Slonková and Jiří Kubík didn't really go very well at the beginning, it didn't really happen until the next day, because on the same day, only 18 media titles had it. But the headlines are exciting. Forum 24 - Scary testimony and Andrej Babiš, that he wanted to make a fool of his son to solve the case of the Capi Nest. I note that even the title and the quote are important. == sync, corrected by elderman == This is Andrej Babiš, a man who will stop at nothing even if he has to sacrifice his children. In addition to the videospot, the list was prepared on the same day by media material with video reports called Response to Babiš's son's confession, politicians asking for explanations and resignation. The politicians who asked for this can recall what they literally said on the Video News List. The reporters themselves, respectively. Jiří Kubík tried to reach out to Andrej Babiš somewhere on the moving stairs, according to his own words before the story was broadcast. Those are the words of Jiří Kubík. And he asked a suggestive question: Mr President, are you interested in kidnapping your son? And he answered her himself. Jiří Kubík answered himself: "He will not answer. The case, which then broke out a week before November 17th, became a completely insurmountable media hit until today. In the first three days alone, the information was taken over in a total of almost 1,800 media materials. In yesterday's major performances in ČT 1, the prime opposition officials accused the Prime Minister of bringing information about the health of his children into public space. The information I read suggests otherwise. It might be useful for those who dragged it in to apologize, but it's Mr. Prime Minister's business if, for example, a mandate and an immune committee asks. Surely an apology would be worth the words presented by Miroslav Kalousek, who said that there was a pig's parent in his eyes. It certainly is not appropriate, and I quoted the statement by my colleague. The first but about the medical condition of the son of the prime minister except for the video, the spot list was written on the mentioned Monday 12. 11. both of my previously appointed internet titles Forum 24 and CzNews and Blesk daily and its internet mutation News.cz and also internet news coverage, unfortunately, public television. The web public-law ČT 24 has just published the most detailed information about the health condition of Andrej Babiš. And I could quote: The doctor who wrote a report on his medical disability, due to a conflict with the opposition, to the National Institute of Mental Health, where he met with psychiatrist Dita Protopopová, is now taking medication and having other doctors. (?) It is not difficult to find out that the Prime Minister himself has spoken about the health of his children only subsequently. In the next few days, which was primarily raised by specific questions of the media and politicians who showed voters an incredible media barbecue. In this context, I consider the words of some of you to be truly alarming, and so allow me to stop quoting from the media summary which shows how the case arose. Yes, it's not a program. This is not about what President Bartoš said here, who took the liberty of accusing the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia of being an undemocratic party. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia is a democratic political party of the Czech political spectrum and attempts to ban it here have shown Ivan Langer and his likes and never, ever been said. Perhaps if you had a democratic statute as much as we do, it wouldn't be the decision-making and quick judgments that you think it would be. Then why do you wag a dog? You know, I'm an unbeliever. My philosophy is dialectical materialism, historical materialism, and I'm checking and I'm not gonna let myself be an idiot, I'm sorry, I repeat, I'm not gonna be an idiot when the media presents something to me. I'm really checking in, and I see in this verification that this is a media case, not a conversation about whether the government works or doesn't work. And if you let yourself be fooled and trust the media who want to manipulate you, that's your problem! But I will not allow myself to get mixed up in this problem, and neither will Members and officials of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. I have no intention of contributing to the destabilisation of this country. We've had enough destabilization when you weren't willing to act to respect democratic elections! Anyone who wants to participate in power in the Czech Republic can. The Constitution of the Czech Republic says that everyone has the right, and there is no less right of the electorate of that or that political party. If you don't respect the equality of citizens before the law, it's your problem, but I'm not going to accept that inequality. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, which values and will follow the Constitution of the Czech Republic, will never accept it. And if we want to change the law, that's what the debate in the Chamber of Deputies is about. And don't be mad at me, I'm really, really not gonna let myself be fooled by some media that thinks they can affect me! I will not be influenced and neither will my colleagues from KSČM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u11	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček will now appear as Chairman of the ČSSD. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u12	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Prime Minister, dear colleagues, in the last 11 days since the broadcast of the report on TV, many of the Czech Republic's meetings have happened. I want to say that I have a certain understanding of the indignation and concerns of a part of the public, I understand that they are asking questions and want answers to them. But what I find hard to believe is the fury and fierceness of the opposition, even though there are attempts at state speeches today. You know, Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk said that upset isn't a program, and I think that we as elected representatives of the people should keep a cool head and make decisions based on reason and not be emotional. And that's what I do while I'm in politics, which means I'm always trying to deal with the situation rationally. Of course, what's happening around the Prime Minister is a burden on the government. And I told Václav Moravec, fair and clear, that the so-called. The Slovak model, when the agreement took place and someone else stood in front of the government on the same floor plan, would remove the burden from the government. However, we all know what is the position of the ANO movement, which decides who will be put at the head of the government, and of course we also know the position of the President. In this situation, therefore, there is now pressure on social democracy to bring down the government in which it itself sits. And it doesn't matter if there are six or five opposition representatives at those press conferences, but it's obvious that even in the six-sided constellation, the opposition just doesn't have enough votes to knock down the government, and they're pushing social democracy now, and some people are already openly saying they want to replace us. [[10.40 hours]] And I'm asking what would have happened if the government had left if the government had fallen. Would any government rule in demise here? Or, given the situation of the President of the Republic, there would be a constitutional stalemate. From my point of view, therefore, voting on distrust of the government without any idea of what it will be after is not a rational solution. What is rational to some extent is to let law enforcement authorities take action, to ask for answers to questions that many of you are asking the Prime Minister and others here. And I want to assure you, as Home Secretary, that as long as I'm Secretary of the Interior, the police will have maximum support for all these cases and questions to be resolved, and they won't feel under political pressure. At the same time, I also say that it would be rational on the part of the opposition if Andrej Babiš does not want to lead the government to try to do the only thing that will ensure that her desire is fulfilled, and that means calling for early elections. But opposition doesn't rationally advance. And when I listen to the criticism not only here, but also in the media, I'm a little sorry to hear from some of my opponents that they're hoping we can do it today because they don't know what's coming. Social democracy has gone into government for one simple reason. We went there to do our election program. And I think we all agree that the essence and purpose of the political party is to seek a share in the government and defend the interests of our constituents, and that is what we do. I understand the opposition will attack us. That's her right. But please don't ask us to do your job for you and to solve your problems for you. After all, no one can think that social democracy will follow some sincere advice, whether it is Petr Fiala's advice, Miroslav Kalousek's advice, or Tomio Okamura. As for the well-meaning advice from the right, I would just like to remind you that when the right was ruling here, we experienced a policy of drastic cuts, socially insensitive reforms. And that's probably where he's telling us to move this country today. They advise us to end this government project, which, from my point of view, is successful. It is a government that has passed higher pensions, higher income to nurses, police officers, firefighters, teachers, many others. We have also pushed through our key priorities, such as the renewal of the payment of the first three days in sickness, the increase in minimum wages, and we are very promisingly moving the bill of backed-up maintenance, which is helping singles and singles. And you think if the government left and here replaced us with those who advise us so well today, it would go on? No way. I mean, given that the opposition doesn't have a vision, either, but today is to some extent a theatre. And it's a vote against the government. Not for the government. And for this reason too, social democracy will not take part in the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u13	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the President of the Czech Social Democratic Party, Jan Hamáček. We now have the presentation of President KDU-ČSL, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, colleagues, KDU-ČSL has not expressed confidence in this government in the beginning for the same reason that it has refused, without fulfilling the clear condition that a person charged with a serious crime will not negotiate whether or not we will go to the government or support it. The situation is still the same. This isn't really a personal matter. It's not a matter of whether a person's name is one way or another. It's about protecting the institution. A member of the government, regardless of whether it is the Prime Minister or any other member of the government, a person who is accused of a serious crime should not be, because it is a gigantic conflict of interest and it can cause really great uncertainty as to whether the criminal proceedings in question are actually conducted freely, independently, transparently and fairly. It is clear that if the Prime Minister has a lot of leverage in his powers to impose pressure on law enforcement authorities, then it is a matter that raises questions and distrust of citizens about whether this criminal proceedings are proceeding as they should. Therefore, KDU-ČSL will vote in favour of distrust of this government. It's a thing that's principled. It's a thing that's rational, but it's also principled. Because talking about rationality is not compatible with talking about cynicism. The fact that there are no values, that there are no rules, that there is nothing more than pragmatism. I must say that it is not true that it would not have any effect abroad on what is happening here, in view of the Czech Republic. I have the opportunity to talk many times a year to the top European politicians. Before each European Council, I associate with many premieres, presidents, vice-premieres, chancellors. And I can tell you that it is not true that they do not perceive the situation, that they do not know about it, that it does not harm the Czech Republic. It's damaging. They're asking what's going on with us. How is it possible that something like this is happening in an EU country? So it's not true that no one cares. It's not true that nobody cares. It is not true that no one has a problem with this and that no one has a problem with the fact that there is a person in the government who is accused of a serious crime. I am very sorry and I must say that I do not understand that the whole situation is so heated towards the Prime Minister's family. Yes, it's very unpleasant, but the principle is that he brought the whole family into it himself. I wonder if he's willing to continue sacrificing the peace in the family just by remaining alone in this situation. After all, it deepens it, for it partly causes it itself. I personally consider it ethically questionable, and I can say that I don't like the fact that someone is filming themselves with a hidden camera. I consider it the edge of what journalists should be doing. That doesn't change the fact that this government didn't have our trust at the beginning and doesn't have it now. I would like to point out to the Prime Minister that the democratic club no longer exists for many months. Perhaps it would be good for him to finally record it, because it doesn't really exist. As far as the election results are concerned, we respect them. We also respect who won the election. But that doesn't mean that the Prime Minister can only be one person and no one else, that everyone else in that party or even non-nominants are losers who don't speak English. I'm convinced that's what's behind the edge, and I don't like the fact that flowers are being thrown away from the memorial. This does not change the fact that the division of the company that has been mentioned here does not cause it to be very non-standard and that it actually raises serious public response to doubt whether criminal proceedings will actually continue freely, independently and transparently. Especially in a situation where the Director of the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps has been expelled from his post, when decisions are being made on the new police president, so I could continue. I also don't like it when they throw bottles, eggs, or tomatoes at someone in political opinions. I don't think that's part of the political culture. But we can't be surprised when people are frustrated by the fact that there is such a gigantic conflict of interest, where there is a situation like this that doesn't just embarrass us, but raises legitimate questions as to whether there is no influence on the entire case. Finally, the Prime Minister himself said that it is possible to order a political case here. Therefore, it cannot be excluded that this process will also be affected, as well as affected by this criminal proceedings. And in that sense, the purest and correct solution is that such a member of the government, who is criminally prosecuted, who is charged with a serious crime, is not in the government until the entire situation is resolved before the law enforcement authorities have completed the matter. [[10.50 hours]] I repeat, rationality must not be cynicism. Rationality must not be disguised as opportunism. If we lose values, if we lose responsibility, if we lose principles, then politics will only become a cynical struggle for power. And I think this is about more than who the Prime Minister is. We are talking about values, principles, systems, institutions. I do not believe that the fall of the government would lead to a stalemate. After all, there is a Constitution that clearly speaks of what will happen in such a situation. There are many ways to solve this situation. There may be another government, there may be a government on the same ground plan with another Prime Minister, there may indeed be a situation where this will take place until the early elections, there may be an interim government. All of it. There are many possibilities that exist here. I am convinced that reducing the situation to a personal level, even at the cost of taking it away from the family, is a matter that should not happen. It is, of course, the decision of each individual. I would like to say that attacking the family is very disgusting, but it has been experienced by many of us. Many of us have experienced attacks from people who disagree with us, on a personal level, and on our children. I've been there myself. It's uncomfortable. But I can say that if I were in a similar situation, I would prefer not to be in such a situation and would not be in such a government. I believe that we are now voting on the principles, the principles, the institutions, the constitutionality. Public trust is very important. And if we're talking about we should connect, if we really meant that, then we need to eliminate the causes of the division. And the reason for the division is that people are frustrated that something like this is possible in a country of the European Union, a country that wants to be civilized by standard democracies. These are all the reasons why the entire KDU-ČSL club will express its distrust of this government. Just as we did not support the government's trust at the beginning, this is the same reason why we did not want to negotiate the possible involvement or support of the government without fulfilling the condition that he would not be charged with a serious crime. It's clear in this system. We are ready to discuss government support, we are ready to discuss government, but this basic condition must be met there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u15	Thank you to KDU-ČSL Chairman Pavel Bělobrádek. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek will now perform for the TOP 09, and Mr. Farský will prepare for STAN. I'll ask the House for peace! If you have other debates, please in the foyer, so that I may give the floor to President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, all Members of the TOP 09 Club have added their signatures to this meeting of distrust to the government, and everyone will also vote. The story of the Prime Minister's criminal case begins to resemble a cheap B gangster. Unfortunately, it's not a movie, it's a reality that eats up the principles of the rule of law like cancer. How do we explain to people that there will be a right to pay evenly for everyone here when any of the accused or investigated may have a legitimate feeling that he can't get away with what the Prime Minister, under whom executive executives, such as police and prosecutors, fall? In the last quarter century of the Czech Republic, no member of the government has ever been in such a monstrous conflict of interest. Even Miloš Zeman's blissful memory, when he was Prime Minister and was accused of his government member, Minister of Finance Ivo Svoboda, immediately proposed his appeal to the President of the Republic, stating that he simply could not sit in the government for a criminally prosecuted person. The President seems to have moved on in his opinions over the years, but his original opinion really belongs to those principles of the rule of law. By being a prime minister, the entire government is in that monstrous conflict of interest. And if there are reasonable suspicions that, moreover, the investigation is being thwarted, the fundamental principles of the rule of law and the public's confidence in justice are indeed at stake. I think that something like this is not possible and that the Chamber of Deputies, which is responsible by the government, should not allow it. I do not want to turn to the Prime Minister because he has made his position clear to us in words never, ever, ever. I would like to address colleagues, especially those who have decided to express their position by leaving without voting here. Colleagues, we've all made a parliamentary pledge, and it says in the Constitution that we should vote according to our conscience. Is it really in your conscience to flee to the office or the cafeteria before the vote and not take part in the vote? All of us formerly born, having experienced a certain part of our economically active life in totalitarianism, remember well the situation when our fears overwhelmed our own conscience. There were very few truly brave ones to whom it never happened. And I often remember with shame situations when I preferred to keep my mouth shut because I was scared. And this is a situation that you want to expose yourself completely voluntarily, you want to expose yourself to a situation where your fear, your fear, will drown out your own conscience. It is not true that there is no plan B. Plan B exists and they are all variants that the Constitution assumes. Of course, at such a moment, the President of the Republic would be the first to move, and if he would actually re-name the criminally prosecuted person who is thwarting the investigation, it would be his responsibility and it would be a question of his conscience, not ours, not all of us. Of course, the Constitution admits all possible other scenarios. Plan A is simple. Does each of us want a criminally prosecuted person at the head of the government thwarting an investigation? Plan B - not all of us want it. We make decisions according to our conscience. Members of the TOP 09 do not want this in their conscience and will therefore also vote against the trust of this government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. Mr Jan Farský now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not say anything new when I announce here that this government does not have our trust. I will not repeat arguments about a criminally prosecuted prime minister in a colossal conflict of interest, I will not drown in the past, as this government has drowned in the past. I will show you five concrete examples of how the Czech Republic could function much better in the interests of its citizens and its future if this government were not in the problems of its President. I'm really going to start with earth, so to speak from the floor - soil and water. The Czech soil does not capture as much water as it captured years ago, it is basically damaged, watered down, there is a huge erosion, it is managed on ten times larger pools than it is managed west of our country. So I would expect the government to come up with the idea of promoting orb instead of pesticides in the fall, that it will encourage animal production to return nutrients to the soil, that it will encourage the reduction of the plan, so that erosion is not so tragic. What's really going on? Mr. Faltýnek's huge fight against the ceiling of subsidies, so that the agro complexes don't happen to suffer. Minister Toman has claimed that pesticides will be used again in the fields, that they will not end the atrocities that are happening here, but that the use here will be prolonged. These are things that are simply a crime on the future of the Czech Republic. And the president? He wants to build about as a reaction to the fact that we have a water problem here, a huge construction of the Vltava-Labe-Odra channel. [[11.00 hours]] Education, second problem. College-educated teachers are only 56 percent of the average salary of university-educated people. We're the worst at it in OECD countries. Students who want to go to school, but come from families where both parents are only educated, so only 3.7 percent of them have a chance to graduate from college. These are the real problems of education that we have here, the education that is the highway to prosperity and education, which decides how we will be in this country in 20 years. So far, education only works because of teachers' self-sacrifice. How long will it work? What would I expect from a successful government? That he would significantly put money into wages and deal with regional differences. What did we get? Cheap commute to stupid schools and cost us 6 billion. billions fired each year. The third situation where the government is failing is infrastructure. We are in the middle of Europe. There has always been prosperity in places where communication and communication have historically passed. After five years of government YES at the Ministry of Transport this year, 3.7 km of motorways will be completed. And in order not to be so obvious, it is said that the motorway network will be completed in 2030. I don't think anyone can believe that. Unfortunately, the reality is that less than 20 kilometers of motorways are being built annually, and according to the report of the Supreme Audit Office, it has never been built as slowly as in recent years. In the boom? We fell by 29 seats on 156th place in the world when you want to get a building permit. This really is not the way to invest in the Czech Republic. It's just a stop sign of further development. Fourth point, pension reform. As early as 2015, we heard from the then Minister of Finance how he would perhaps submit a pension reform within six months. We need her, we need her like salt, we need her for our kids to keep the pension pressure on them. The fact that a few hundred crowns have been added to the elderly is simply not a pension reform, it is merely a delay in the problem and buying time. Pre-debt. Five hundred thousand people live in a debt trap in the Czech Republic. Five hundred thousand people who are simply benefit eaters, do not contribute to public budgets, are in the grey economy, sometimes move to the black economy completely, and it is a situation that needs to be addressed. How did the government proceed? Unfortunately, after the original proposal of Minister Pelikán, there was a law that does not give them much hope. He sends the most pre-debted ones that needed help into uncertainty. Here I hope the Senate will step in. And instead of encouraging active people to try, the government kneels to companies, some of them, and eliminates their approach, and introduces an EET that is just a fag for decent people. This is five points that show that the government is simply not working at the crucial moments of its operation. Her problems force her to buy every day in a position to protect her safety and interests at huge costs that we will be paying back in the future. This government is a government of the past. It draws us into the past with its causes, its problems, it draws us in national politics, it draws us in international space. And we want there to be a government here that will not rule in the interests of individuals and individual companies, but that will rule in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. And this government is not like that, which is why it doesn't get our trust.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u19	That was the last speaker before the opening of the debate on the basis of the agreement of the MPs. I am now launching a debate in which twelve Members are currently enrolled, but first they will speak with the priority rights of signing in by the chairmen of Faltýnek, Gazdík and Radim Fiala. President Faltýnek has the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Hello, dear colleagues, colleagues. I didn't make any speeches this time, so I'm sorry that maybe my performance will just be a little bit of a comment on what was said here. Perhaps I should like to begin by means of the President, Mr Farský, if he could perhaps replace colleague Krutáková in an agricultural committee where he could learn a lot of professional information, and maybe after a while - it takes a while - he did not say things about which he knows absolutely nothing. You know, we're meeting as the Chamber of Deputies, and I've done a little bit of statistics, in the last three parliamentary periods under the 12th to debate, and a subsequent vote on distrusting the government. However, today's meeting is a little different from the others. When I studied the individual performances during the eleven attempts, one of which was successful, the meeting was mostly convened for a particular reason, but the debate was no longer about the particular reason why the meeting was called, but it was about whether the government was working or not, whether it was making wise decisions or not, whether it was saving or throwing money away, whether it was raising or reducing taxes. And it was a pretty rational clash of two views, existing governments and opposition. The first debate was on 20 June 2007, it was a proposal for social democracy to express distrust to the government of the ODS, KDU-ČSL and I don't know, now I apologize for who the third entity was, but the memorials certainly remember when the reason was called. Minister for Regional Development and Vice Prime Minister and Chairman of KDU-ČSL Jiří Čunek. The interesting thing about this meeting was that not one person came out of the government. Not the Prime Minister, not the Vice Prime Minister, not a single MP. Just nobody. Nobody. The second attempt on the same subject was on 5 December 2007 due to the ongoing affair with the alleged corruption of Minister Čunek, and even this attempt was not successful. And we all know and remember today how it ended up, and Mr. Senator and Governor and former Mayor Čunek is one of the most successful politicians in KDU-ČSL. And now I would just move on to the performance by Pavel Bělobrádek, the current chairman of the KDU-ČSL. The eleventh attempt to distrust the government during those previous parliamentary periods was the TOP 09 proposal, the ODS and the Úsvit movement on 26 May 2015. At that time, if I remember correctly, there was a Vice Prime Minister for Science and Research, Pavel Bělobrádek, and the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš was sitting there. Even this experiment was unsuccessful. No further comment. [[11.10 hours]] You know, I loved the comment of one of our colleagues, who was published on 19 November 2018 on the author's Facebook page. And I'd like to quote one sentence here that I respect this person for, even though I don't know him personally. Or we meet here in the hallway, say hello, but we've never dealt with anything specific. It is the chairman of the school committee, Mr. Václav Klaus Jr., who writes: I will not, however, consider it, nor do I read it, over journalistic investigative cases and family conditions of the Prime Minister. That's what the police are for...," et cetera, et cetera." And one more passage, which is very funny, which reads: "To see a Kalousek-type individual speaking about morality, democracy and constitutionality in the square today, is a similar experience to watching a married cheat talk about love. " I'm asking my colleagues not to take this personally, and I'm really amused by this opinion from one of our colleagues here. However, colleagues, we last had a ten-hour debate about the harm of Mr Babiš for the Czech Republic in July, when we voted on the government's trust, we all remember it until late at night. And I wonder what's changed since then. Nothing. And a lot on the other side. Nothing has changed from the point of view of the credibility of the government. The Tea Nest case is still under investigation, and even with me, under the minimal interest of the media, but I do not blame it, and I understand that the prosecution was abolished in May. You know, I'd stop by here for a second. Everyone we're discussing here today was sitting here when the debate was going on about our release. Whether it was in the last House or soon after the election in this parliamentary term. I am here, but not only here at this speaker's desk, but also at the meeting of the mandate committee, he placed on the table concrete evidence that was and is, or was based in the file, when the particular investigator there wrote in my accusation that my crime was that I made a fictitious and purposeful contract for the sale of shares, and at a disadvantageous price. And I proved that the contract wasn't fictitious because it existed that the purchase price was paid according to an expert opinion with a profit for the company. And yet no one cared, not on the committee, not in the House. And I understand that. I accepted it and voted in favour of my extradition because I said: We generally believe in the principle of independence of the work of the police, the prosecutor and the courts. So please, let us all continue to believe this and let these authorities continue to do their job. My attitude is still the same. I merely drew attention to one particular thing that was untrue, and the D.A. assessed it as really untrue. And that's it. That's all I want to comment on. On the other hand, too much has changed. And the Prime Minister has already mentioned this in the second part of his speech, when he evaluated the government's activities and its concrete results. I understand that this is logically annoying to the opposition. I just understand. I would ask that we come back if there is a motion to appeal the government or to express distrust to the government to return to this rational debate about what has succeeded, what has failed, what has done well, what has been done wrong. Because if there are no rational arguments, then unfortunately, it goes into the personal plane, and then, unfortunately, the debate isn't rational. So that's just very briefly on my part. I don't want to hold things up in any way, but I'm not gonna forgive myself for one more comment. Of course, six subjects in the House, six political parties, called for that extraordinary meeting. The bearer became the second on the tape, ODS, which ended in the second election with a profit of 25 mandates. Here it is only necessary to revive the memory of our public that the ODS has shown us in those eight or seven years, as is the rule in our country, when even with economic growth in the order of units, the percentage has dramatically continued to indebt our country in the order of hundreds of billions of crowns. Hundreds of billions of crowns. And instead of her program, which declared in the election that she would reduce taxes, she increased taxes. We all remember that. Just for your information, one or two of those extraordinary meetings to distrust the government that created social democracy was precisely because of the government's work in the tax area, where VAT for food and a lot of other things went up. So I understand that if the opposition doesn't have a specific agenda, a specific plan for how to do these things better, then it's resorting to this form. But I would beg, let's, if it's just a little bit possible, have the debate on a rational level, what the government is doing wrong and what the opposition thinks can be done better. But unfortunately, unfortunately, I don't think we're gonna make it because I wrote the first sentence of President Fiala, who said in his opening speech, and I quote, "It's not the government's work, it's the Prime Minister's person." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u21	President Gazdík, President Radim Fiala after him, President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u22	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister. I will try to hold the debate as the President of the ANO Parliamentary Club, Jaroslav Faltýnek, actually on a material level. So let's think about why we're here today. From my point of view, we are here today because we are witnessing all the conceivable limits of political culture being shifted. Unfortunately, we're getting used to them. What was not possible until ten years ago is possible today. Just take the sentence of the criminally prosecuted prime minister. That leaves us cold today, too. Somehow we got used to it. We have a criminally prosecuted prime minister. Can you feel the shift? Would it be possible at a time when, as the current Prime Minister once called her Palermo, which he himself says he came to correct? At that time, ministers withdrew for mere suspicion, for example, to divert money at the time of divorce and for other things. The problem isn't personal, it's not that we like someone more or less. The problem is not that the opposition must criticize at all costs, but the problem is that a person who faces such a problem and is in government is so blackmailable, cannot devote his time fully to his ministry or as Prime Minister to all ministries and this country and naturally cares more about his family, his prosecution and other matters. That is why it works in most classical Western European democracies. Therefore, people who have this problem should resign from their functions. But we have already heard that the Prime Minister will not do this. He never will. Never. And instead of self-esteem, we hear that we're doing well, that we're going to have a better time and that the whole case is designed, that it was caused by journalistic hyenas. But the fact that the case isn't that no one has stolen anything, we need to hear it from the police, from the prosecutors, or from the court. The statements of everyone else, at least the criminally prosecuted prime minister, are irrelevant if we live in a state of law. And unless we live in a state of law, unfortunately, we're not well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. The President Kalousek will respond to a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u24	Thank you. Let me briefly respond to the previous speaker, Mr. Faltýnek. Perhaps colleagues from YES, when you criticize the former ODS government and TOP 09, you should agree which way you're going to target the criticism. The Prime Minister here criticized our austerity measures in times of crisis, Mr.Faltýnek criticized high debt. Well, it doesn't go together. If the austerity measures weren't, the debt would be even greater. If the criticism of the VAT increase has fallen, it has been enacted for three years with effect to 1. 1. 2016. You guys canceled this time limit, and you kept the higher taxes so-called one for the rest of the time. You have an exceptional opportunity. I have tabled an amendment to return VAT tax to 2010 because the reasons have passed, both on time and on pension reform, you have abolished it all. So we can put them back together. Or do you want to keep the rates and just criticize them?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u25	With a point of fact, President Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u26	I do not want to get into any technical dispute with former Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek, because I am far from achieving his qualities because I am merely chairman of the agricultural committee. However, the previous government and the existing government have proved that taxes can be reduced and, at the same time, better collected. And you, Mr President through the President, have never succeeded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. She will now speak with the factual remark of Mrs Langšádlová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u28	hezký morning. Mr Faltýnek, through Mr President, did you not really notice that you were comparing the period when the global economic crisis really took place, which also had consequences for the Czech Republic, and that now, and that is not your merit, do you manage in a period of great economic growth, which is once again not your fault? And the situation really was completely different. Wouldn't it be fair to at least admit it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u29	President Faltýnek, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u30	Certainly, if that were true, it would be fair, my colleague, through Mr President. But please try to study the specific figures that GDP growth has been in these years and what the decline in the state deficit has been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. President Radim Fiala will now speak in the debate, followed by President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The honourable Member, honourable Members, the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement did not support this government in its creation. We have rejected the concept of government, where social democracy is part of the coalition. From the very beginning, we considered such a government to be a denial of the outcome of the elections and a government that would be accompanied by permanent instability. Sustained instability has been with this government all the time, and I think we all see it and feel it. Recently, we did not have the seat of the Foreign Minister, and the circumstances of his appointment were truly an embarrassing story. Today we are witnessing another similar story. Social democracy is not even capable of supporting its own government. She's only capable of sitting in ministerial chairs. No one can take such a government that even her coalition partner doesn't defend. Such a government will experience permanent agony. It is, of course, the responsibility of the YES movement, which coalition partner it has chosen. Of course, our movement is concerned that the case of the Chapi hnízdo has not yet been resolved and resolved. But our movement is also concerned about other cases. People did not get justice in the case of OKD, people eagerly wait to see if anyone would be responsible for hundreds of millions of problems in the management of ministries of work and social affairs or education, where ministers were ministers of social democracy and there remained cases exceeding the many times the size of the case of the Chapi nest. The participation of the Social Democrats in the government is not even a guarantee of an objective investigation into the case of the accused Prime Minister. Lately, it seems to be the other way around, because in 15 months, almost nothing happened in this case. The current situation requires change. From the outset, we have offered and offered the ANO movement as the winner of the elections a real political project. The project of the government of experts nominated by the ANO movement, supported by our movement on the basis of an agreement on common programming points that would respect voters' wishes and election results. The Prime Minister's question is the political responsibility of the President of the Republic. And I am personally convinced that the President is able to fully perceive this responsibility. There are only two ways out of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The first way, regardless of the outcome of today's vote, will be to reconstruct the government, and the result may be the concept of a government without the social democracy that I was talking about. I am convinced that this concept of government would be supported by most citizens of the Czech Republic. The second path is the continuation of the current government and the continuation of this agony. It will be a government where the ministers of the political party sit, which today has no other meaning but to allow its ministers to sit there for a while. [[11.30 hours]] Finally, we have never supported a government with social democracy, and even today, this government will not gain the confidence of the SPD movement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. Mrs Valachová will respond with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u34	I respond to the previous speaker with a factual remark regarding the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. With regard to the case of so-called sports subsidies, official persons were charged, persons outside the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports were charged and not one Social Democrat or Social Democrat was charged, and the matter is being investigated. As for me as former Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, I stopped all funding. This means that no non-investment funds or investment funds have left, programs have been stopped. I don't think the analogy is up to location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Birke, followed by Mr Hájek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me to respond to the previous speaker, the previous speaker, Mr Radim Fiala, through you. Mr President, I respect you as Chairman of the Economic Committee, we have a fairly humanly decent relationship. But in this matter, let me make two comments. First of all, I understand that you SPDs are ready in blocks today, the moment they pervert social democracy, jump immediately and replace it so that there is a better, better government with your participation. But I just want to say, it's been here before. At the very beginning, when Prime Minister Babiš formed negotiations at the time. But I don't think the YES movement wanted you in that government back then. So the question is, is it good to get into closed doors twice? Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. Mr Hájek, with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u38	Mr President, fellow Members, I would also like to follow up on the words of Mr Fiala, who mentioned the case of OKD. I'm sorry that Mrs. Slonková and Mr. Kubík, while they were in Switzerland, didn't find time or sponsors to visit Mr. Bakala, who is hiding in Switzerland and doesn't want to testify. And he does not want to testify because he has stated that he does not believe in the impartiality of the parliamentary committee of inquiry in which all nine entities are represented. [[He's raising his voice.]] No one's heard from these outrageous words that the legislative power is somehow influenced. That's wrong. I'll remember 2012, the CASA case. Remember, back then, the Finance Minister was rudely attacking Mr. Mazánek's investigator, whom he called three times, attacking the police president, who was recalled a month later. I am so glad today that we have independent police, that we have independent investigative bodies, as has been shown here in the case of our colleague Mr. Faltýnek. They have my full trust, and I'm glad we're not in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. President Stanjura with priority rights, after whom President Chvojka. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u40	I'm sure I can't match the intensity of my voice to my foreman. In his opening speech, our President summed up the reasons for which we first called on the Prime Minister to resign, and when he did not hear the call, we then called this meeting. And I would like to speak to my colleagues with social democracy now, because I have personally been touched by some of the words of their chairman, and I will mark them, and then I will show them - the party chair, not the club chairman for President Chvojka - how hypocritical and sensitive they are. I am sorry that the Vice Prime Minister and Home Secretary Jan Hamáček are not present at the moment, because I will very often quote his words, whether from the media his signed commentary or his appearance here in the Chamber of Deputies. Unfortunately, all I see here is the ČSSD torso, if I'm not mistaken, four. But that's okay. Yesterday I read, like many of us, an interview by Jan Hamáček on news server News.cz. And I'm going to pick a few thesises that he said, and then I have a few questions about each of these thesis. I hope the Minister listens to me somewhere else, we have technical options, and then he answers me. I quote Jan Hamáček from yesterday: "The opposition is trying to express distrust of the government. The opposition's duty is to secure 101 votes. Clearly, she doesn't have them, so she tried to blow up the government through a socde and force us to leave the government. The opposition has no plan B, they're just trying to call off the government. We will certainly not initiate the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies." Then I get to the conclusion, when he denies these sentences of his. "And whoever's slapping in the water here is the opposition. The opposition urges the government to resign, but it does not have the means to do so. They are trying to achieve this in the only possible way that they will involve the Social Democrats. We're just saying that what the opposition is doing is irresponsible because it doesn't offer any solutions." He repeats this thesis several times. "We are ready to deliver our 15 votes to dissolve the House. But the one who's supposed to get the votes is the opposition instead of performing the theater in the House." This is the favourite phrase of Jan Hamáček, the theatre in the House. I am now quoting to you the opinion published by Jan Hamáček on May 12, 2017. Before I start quoting it, Jan Hamáček gets angry and says: "You will not tell us what to do. " I agree, we don't advise you what to do. But he didn't exactly stick to it in his political practice. The comment, written by Jan Hamáček, which came out on 12 May last year after an emergency meeting at the Capi's Nest - already proved extraordinary, in quotation marks, the courage of social democracy. To avoid voting, they interrupted the meeting and the vote never happened again. Instead of expressing their views either in favour or against in the vote. I think that's legitimate, and no one can blame anyone for their vote. The article by Jan Hamáček, who doesn't like it so much when someone advises him, is called pan Babiš, put an end to this awkwardness. I have to say, when I read it yesterday, it's extremely sharp words to Andrej Babiš. Now, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister before he jumps up and starts to argue with me to realize that these are the words of Jan Hamáček. I quote: "Of course, the performance that took place this week with the current Minister of Finance and the head of the ANO movement in the main tragicomic role was already a very strong coffee for the audience. This country and its citizens need a stable government that will govern and help wage growth, develop health care, address housing issues or the number of police officers on the streets, and will not drown in the problems of their Minister of Finance. The course of the extraordinary meeting was, in a way, predictable. The Treasury Secretary said it was a dedicated campaign, and he didn't do anything. Then he admitted that he did something after all, but it was set up, or, in quotes, he didn't know. It is his favourite rhetoric, which is played as a song from the fountain," adds Jan Hamáček. "The others foolishly believed that in the boss YES or at least one member of his movement would awaken even one glimpse of self-esteem. It didn't come even after thousands of people gathered in the squares and expressed their opinion. The roles were dealt, just improvised," continues Jan Hamáček. "The Minister harms himself without realizing it. He could pick up political points at the subway stations and make himself a martyr with doughnuts and 5,000 bills in his pocket," says Jan Hamáček. [[11.40 hours]] "First of all, his early resignation would benefit society... We are not in the banana republic," said Jan Hamáček, "and politicians must be prepared to assume political responsibility. Suspicions are so serious that any other politician would have already resigned. Not to mention the foreign reputation of the Czech Republic," continues Jan Hamáček. "When I travel abroad to see my colleagues from other parliaments or meet with foreign policy in our country, I always appreciate that we managed to avoid armed conflict and have demonstrated a high political culture at a time when it sparkled... What the owner of YES is doing," says Jan Hamáček, but this reputation has been perfectly reset. That's why I repeat again," not me, but Jan Hamáček, "Mr. Babiš, leave! You will help not only the Czech Republic but also yourself. Every day, your agony only makes things worse. This country deserves stability, economic growth, citizens of our country deserve politicians who do not lie to their face." As much as Jan Hamáček advises Andrea Babiš in this case. Many of my previous speakers said that nothing has changed in the course of the investigation in those 15 months. I have no reason to argue with that. Or almost nothing changed me to quote exactly my previous speakers. But what has changed is obviously the opinion of Jan Hamáček. Let us see how the expert on plans B Jan Hamáček and his social democracy acted in other cases. President Faltýnek has already quoted some votes on trust. Apparently, we've been drawing from the same sources. I focused on the sixth parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies, which was 2010-2013 when we and the Social Democrats were the strongest opposition party. How many times has social democracy sparked a vote of distrust? Five times. Five times. And I will remember the first vote on trust right away, and then you, members of social democracy, will judge for yourself how the social situation has shifted and the assessment of the behaviour of politicians. How you changed that look, dear colleagues and dear colleagues. The meeting took place on December 21, 2010, about six months after the election. She's been called up by social democracy. I fully support the opposition's right to call for this vote at any time. It's perfectly all right. It is one of the few instruments the opposition has under its Rules of Procedure. The reason was suspicion of alleged corruption in the State Environmental Fund. Suspected alleged corruption case. That is why you have called for a vote of distrust. Our colleague, the former Minister of the Environment Pavel Drobil, resigned to the post of minister, later the police investigation proved that he was innocent. He wasn't even charged and he's cleared. Yet he resigned, he left. And you called for a vote of mistrust. What was the plan of B Jan Hamáček if it came out in December 2010? How did the Social Democrats come up with this? At the time, the government had, if I'm not mistaken, either 114 or 118 members of the majority government coalition. Radim Fiala and I were also members of this government coalition. There was another party jersey back then. What was the result of the vote? Eighty-four Members expressed distrust of the Government, voted in favour of the proposal, and 113 opposed. We didn't run away from the O.R., we were behind our own government, and we voted in favour of our own government. Where's plan B? Then it was repeated four more times. The results were often similar, 84 pro, 114 against. What kind of theater was that? What were you guys playing? Why didn't you talk about early elections? Or did you change your mind just because you're sitting on government benches? That's exactly what it is. You want us to plan B, C, D - I'll tell you right away. First, plan A has to be fulfilled, so that the Prime Minister is not a criminally prosecuted person. Plan B, for example, the continuation of the existing coalition without the current Prime Minister. Plan C, if plan B isn't enough for you, for example, a majority coalition without communists. At least KDU and STAN, I apologize to my colleagues for quoting them, saying after the elections: If the Prime Minister is not the current Prime Minister, we are ready to enter such a government and create a majority government. And plan D, if plan B doesn't work out, or plan C - early election. Who believes you want this election? I don't. Convince your coalition partner, the YES movement, come up with the concept of early elections, and I will be happy to vote in favour. But you're suggesting it, and you're hoping it doesn't work out. So I say for us clearly: if you convince your government colleagues, whether in the lobby or inside, I leave it up to you, we're ready to support it and we're happy to go to the elections. Let me get this straight. And then the best plan B, which social democracy demonstrated when Jan Hamáček was chairman of the Foreign Committee, was in the 5th term. You knocked down the government in the middle of the Presidency of the Czech Republic of the European Union. Did you have 101 to create another government? Well, we shouldn't! Did you then hunt between the ODS and the Green Party? Well hunted! So what are you guys blaming us for? Instead of saying politically clearly, for example, "we stand behind this government, we are part of it," you interpret such a powerful statement: Mr. Babiš, end this awkwardness! And you blame the opposition. For your own failure. Was Jan Hamáček right in May 2017, or November 2018? Who here changed their mind about 180 degrees? The opposition or the Social Democrats? So much for plan B. You fell in love with it, and one by one you repeat it: The opposition doesn't have a plan B. We have! Plan B, plan C, plan D. But you want to be in government. I respect that. It's your decision. Why are you ashamed of this? What are you gonna do in that hallway when we vote? I will not use the same unfair tactics that Jan Hamáček used, who says here so mysteriously and mysteriously: Some opponents come to me and say to me in the works: Please, don't let the government fall, we don't know what to do with it. This is an unfair and nasty attack, unless you name it. I'm not gonna use the same tactics, and I'm not gonna say to the microphone what Jan Hamáček told us in an internal meeting last week. That's not how you do politics. Another thesis by Jan Hamáček repeatedly in recent days says: I am the guarantor of an independent investigation into this case. As Home Secretary, I guarantee it. At the same time, we hear from many performances that nothing has changed. Well, it's not entirely true. For the first time, we discussed this case sometime in August, or in August last year, the first request for the extradition of Members in this case came. What's changed since then? The head of the Prague police is gone. The president of the police is gone. Director GIBS is gone. That's changed. And that's a fact, period. That's changed. Guaranteed independent investigation Minister of the Interior, among others. He says, "I will decide who will be the new police president." [[11.50 hours]] Well, I found an article from May 22, this year when the Social Democrats weren't in the government yet. That's a match. In the independent Lidové noviny, it just so happens to belong to Agrofert holding, which has nothing to do with the Prime Minister. The article which dealt with the issue of the future police president was not yet known that the last one would end, and where I read in May that the favorite of the next police president was plk Jan Švejdar. And now I quote exactly from the Lidové noviny: "His name is supposed to travel around the prime minister in the demise of Andrej Babiš. " And as Andrej Babiš says, I bought the paper to tell the truth. From this logic, Lidové noviny wrote the truth in May 2018, even though it softened the message allegedly. In this context, I have a few questions about the Home Secretary. When Andrej Babiš first met with the colonel. Švejdar? Who organized the meeting, and what was the agenda for this meeting? Second, how many times did the Prime Minister meet with Col. Švejdar? Third, it will happen to Colonel. Švejdar to the police president? If not, what's plan B or C? If so, who actually chose him? Probably not Lidové noviny, we could agree on that. Last thesis, very popular: I will not stand beside Petr Fiala. I'm not gonna be in the same boat with Petr Fiala. In many ways. Well, that's logical. If we wanted the Social Democrats to stand by our side in any case, that is complete nonsense. We have different political views, so on tax issues, pension reforms logically cannot stand side by side and say we are on the same boat. But when you vote on missions, you're very glad we're standing by your side. Remember how the two foreign and interior ministers of the day thanked us for the fact that the opposition made the missions pass. And that did not bother you, Jan Hamáček, through the Vice-President, that you stood alongside Petr Fiala and other Members of the Civil Democratic Party? I'm going back to those five votes on mistrust. If we had followed the same logic as the Social Democrats and we hadn't called this meeting, after the report this week, that the police were investigating something at the Ministry of Regional Development, if we had behaved the same as you, we would have called a meeting to distrust the government. That's how you guys did it. At that time, I am not saying for the first time, but then Jan Hamáček stood in one row with Vojtěch Filip and Miroslav Grebeníček. As in other votes on distrust of our government, he stood alongside Vojtěch Filip and Miroslav Grebeníček. Legitimate choice. I think everyone has a choice to make, and they can decide freely who is standing by his side or who is standing by him alone. But don't blame it on us. Don't run from that vote. Don't be alibis. Now I would like to sum it up - I will use the name of a favourite Czech film with a slight modification, which you certainly know. I would sum up the position of the Social Democrats in the sentence: Thanks for every new morning, in parentheses: in the ministerial post with the ministerial limo. We are not in line with Petr Fiala, but we are in line with Andrej Babiš and Vojtěch Filip. You have thus definitively closed and confirmed your participation in the stork coalition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u41	Dear colleagues, a delegation from the National Council of the Slovak Republic, led by President Róbert Madej, has now come to visit us at the guest gallery. Dear friends, we warmly welcome you here. [[Members rise and applaud towards the gallery, where guests are also applauded by health.]] Thank you. And we will continue the debate. The President of Chvojka is next with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, it's almost noon. I would also like to comment on some things as the ČSSD MP. And I confess that I will no longer have a tendency to perform after that, because in my opinion, there will be nothing more or more to say. I'll react, for example. to my colleague Stanjura, but to some other colleagues, I hope to remember them all. Here is to my colleague Stanjura through the Vice-President. I like one thing about a colleague. I guess I'm lazy for it, he's not, or he's got a better apparatus than me. He likes to dig in a good way about who said what in 2009, 2010 and 2006 and how it all was. I'll call him a researcher or an archivist, because it's usually the way he says it is. However, it has been said here many times by President Stanjura that we are constantly saying - and so did President Kalousek - something about plan B, which, Mr President, you have repeated, through the Vice-President, several times. And we really have an opinion that it is medially impressive to instigate and vote this government's distrust, but Petr Fiala, President Stanjura, Miroslav Kalousek or other plans B do not have. And although President Kalousek said through the Vice-President that plans B are clear that the Constitution gives them, so under normal circumstances the Constitution would give them or give them, of course all Members should know the ústava as a framework. But we already know what plan B will eventually be or what plan B will be, because we have a president here who has made it clear that if this government falls and the Prime Minister is in remission, etc., he will again appoint Andrej Babiš as president of the new government. That means you have the plan B, you don't, you can have it, but I think the plan B is clear. Plan B is clear because the President said it. If this government simply falls, then the next person who gets a mandate to assemble the government or be appointed Prime Minister is Andrej Babiš, which, from the perspective of the President, has a logic, seems to have a close relationship, but the logic is not political in tearing down this government headed by Prime Minister Babiš, and then we will have another government appointed by the President, headed by Prime Minister Babiš. We have declared - and I know that maybe especially for the opposition, I understand that the opposition is not here to praise us, there is no opposition here to praise the ČSSD, and it wasn't in those years 2010 to 2013, we didn't praise the coalition - but we declared that we would leave the hall this Friday when we voted on the distrust of this government, because this vote will not solve anything. It is a vote on the cases of Andrej Babiš, and it is a vote without any idea of what to do next. It's just an opposition theater, and the ČSSD doesn't have to be there. Andrej Babiš will be named again. It's not our case, it's Andrej Babiš's case, but we're not going to vote against the government where we have five ministers, that wouldn't have political logic, and that would be nonsense. But in this way, at least symbolically, we distance ourselves from his cause, and by leaving, we will declare that we do not like his cases or any case or pseudo-customes, whether everyone calls themselves whatever he wants, and of course we expect him to solve them. We did not cause this crisis, it was caused by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and it is up to him to explain his problems. I know the ČSSD did not go to the government to deal with Andrej Babiš's cases, but we want to promote our program and I think we are succeeding that the public and our voters in particular should be satisfied. [[12.00 hours]] We pushed for a minimum wage increase a week ago. The right here over the past seven years has increased the minimum wage, I believe, by CZK 45 or CZK 75, by some change that the one who's on the minimum wage bought that month bought one extra butter. We've increased the minimum wage here over the past few years. I think it is positive that this is something that citizens of the Czech Republic will appreciate. We have arranged for an increase in salaries primarily for teachers, nurses, or police officers. Finally, from next year, perhaps what we have been fighting since 2008, when the so-called quarantine period was approved within Topolánek's backpack, in simple terms the first three days of the disease free of charge. That's something we've been trying to get ten years to get it back, and we've finally succeeded. Raising pensions - a crucial thing. Under right-wing governments, pensions weren't exactly getting much higher either. It's also backed up maintenance on the right track. That is, we in the government are promoting what we promised the voters, and that is why, after all, we went to that government. So if the government falls today, what's the plan "B"? The Prime Minister will again be Andrej Babiš, only that ČSSD is most likely to support the SPD's formal participation or some tolerance, and I would not really like that republic. We are, of course, and I said it myself a little while ago, they said that the personal problems of the Prime Minister are burdening the government. Chairman Hamáček said that the best solution in our opinion would be the Slovak model, or the Pellegrini model, which means leaving the Prime Minister and replacing his person with someone else for his movement. But you know that YES has resolutely refused, and Andrej Babiš and President Zeman insist on the current Prime Minister in the event of the collapse of the government. Therefore, the alternative for this government is really just the replacement of the ČSSD SPD. Or another alternative in today's government crisis, or political crisis, not government, with the current distribution of forces, are the early elections we talked about, I mean the ČSSD, on Wednesday at our Bureau. That is, if the Prime Minister fails to explain his problems and will not be willing to be replaced, we, as the sovereign House, can say our own, that means 120 votes to dissolve this House, re-allocate the cards, believe that elections will turn out differently than they did a year ago, and we can reformate the government after the next election. This means that what we said is true if 105 votes are found in the current House, so the ČSSD is very happy to deliver the 15 votes left to dissolve the House, and let's try to succeed more in the elections, some of those parties before we succeeded last time, and maybe it'll be better. I would like to make one final point. I already talked about her yesterday in Events, comments. For me, unfortunately, and some of the opposition's demands, I understand, are understandable, although I do not agree with them, partly the opposition's demands are not completely understandable. Last week, I guess it was Tuesday, there was a press conference where you were, and that was almost a bizarre mix of parties for me, calling for the resignation of the entire government from ODS, KDU-ČSL to Pirates and SPD. There was also Mr Okamura, who, however, supported Mr Babiš a day later, which makes it smiley for me. Then I also noticed this week that the opposition said that Prime Minister Babiš bothered her and that he shouldn't be Prime Minister, but that if the Prime Minister switched, the government wouldn't mind. So I thought that the opposition government resented programmatically, ideally, and not that there was a problem with the figure of the Prime Minister, and if it changed, the government would no longer mind and get support from all the laws of the opposition because the Prime Minister would change. So what's changed since last week when the government as a whole doesn't mind, but only Prime Minister Babiš? Maybe I'll ask the opposition block to say it fair, because I didn't quite notice their opinion from the media. How do they feel about voting on the dissolution of the House? Do they even have the courage for him? Is there the courage of the block, the six sides, the 92 votes to vote on the possible dissolution of the House? If the specific parties that are now in favour of the government falling were to possibly dissolve the House, because, as we said, the ČSSD is ready to deliver the fifteen votes, so the solution could be relatively simple. So, in conclusion, for the CSSD. I said everything that matters. I can't speak for Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, who's actually already sitting here, but the résumé is clear. We, by leaving, are showing a distance from the Prime Minister's problems. We believe that he will be able to explain his problems in the very near future and maybe specify some things, but it is not the solution that the opposition is proposing. They don't have plan B because plan B is... Chairman Stanjura laughs. But plan B is that President Zeman, if this government falls, is ready to appoint Prime Minister Babiš again, so plan B is clear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u43	That was Mr. Ambassador Chvojka. Have a nice noon. Now, let me ask you something. Mr Bartošek - are you in general or factual? But I have five facts here, so I'm going to read the deputies into fact so you can keep track because you can't see it on the board. He's Mr. Jurečka, the first to perform. Mr Blažek, Mr Stanjura, Minister Hamáček and Mr Ferjenčík. So in that order. With priority right to the general, we have President Bartošek and then the order. So, Mr. Jurečka, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u44	Thank you. Good noon. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, Government, let me actually respond to Mr Chvojka and the President of the ČSSD Members' Club. Several facts. Firstly, I have analyzed President Zeman's speech and he has always talked over the last two weeks about the fact that if this government had been distrusted today, he would have entrusted Andrej Babiš with the formation of the next government. He hasn't spoken once about naming him Prime Minister of the next government. To be correct for viewers and for the public, it should be recalled that in the past this model has occurred here. Václav Havel, after the so-called Sarayan assassination, commissioned Josef Lux to form a government, but he did not become Prime Minister and proposed and negotiated an agreement with the then government and someone else was appointed as Prime Minister. So the model was here, and we need to look at it with this optics as well. However, you are in this defence of yours, after it was here from the chairmen of other opposition parties - and that was not here last week, as you said in your words, through Mr President, some mixture of strange parties, all the representatives of the regular opposition were standing there in this Chamber of Deputies. And today, everyone has made it clear what the other options are. But in your speech, you presented today's social democracy and your decisive character social democratic perhaps. Thank you for knowing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. I therefore now call on Mr Pavel Blažek to take action and to prepare Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u46	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I'm always fascinated by the way a word is busy at some point, so now it's the word plan. That's a very common word now. So let me just remind you that after the Munich Agreement, Edvard Beneš said he had a plan, assured the nation and then flew away. And then people said, "I have a plan - an airplane." And what plan does the CSSD have today? They have a plan - an airplane. Unlike Edvard Beneš, who flew away and built a new, different political structure, the ČSSD has a plan today - the aircraft to remain in that government, which I dare say is basically a European rarity. And they're constantly asking us for plans B, C. I assure you, we have a plan B, his business name is Blažek - Benda, so you can have the whole thing. The plan is not public yet, but I assure you of one thing: it will not be cowardly or hypocritical!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u47	Another with the de facto President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura and Minister Jan Hamáček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u48	To Prime Minister Chvojka through you. If you'd listened to me, the civil democrats' response to the issue of early elections was clearly heard without any dialing. I'm just saying, no freaking around. But talk your government partners - communists and the ANO movement. You know very well that without the ANO movement, there can be no early elections. That's simple math. But I volunteered for something else. The simple and popular political figure: there is no problem, but someone invents it and then fights the problem. The problem invented by the Social Democrats is the support of the SPD to a possible future government. We heard from the Prime Minister that he wasn't considering the SPD. But I wanted to give originally - you know these favorite pictures, find five differences. That would indeed be very difficult, Mr Chvojka, through the Vice-President. Find me and name three differences in SPD and KSČM foreign policy on my microphone. Three, I don't need five! They agree on NATO, they agree on the EU issue, which, in our view, is strongly against our national interests, and one of you does not mind, you rule with them, and you save the state from the others. So name the three differences in foreign policy KSČM and SPD here on a microphone to see what you're saving!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. Now, then, Mr. Home Secretary Hamáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u50	Thank you. I would like to apologize for the momentary absence in the hall, but I have carefully heard thanks to the modern technique we have here, the performance of President Stanjura. I expected that social democracy here would be the main objective of the opposition's attacks, because we just didn't do it with you. I respect that. It is legitimate, we are politicians, we must take responsibility for our decisions and we must also be prepared to face these arguments. If you mention some of the steps of social democracy in the past, I remember the time when the government appealed during the Presidency, and I remember the discussion about plans B, and there was a topic here called. constructive distrust. That's when the opposition came up with it, the ODS government, and it's always actually coming back. I am in favour of returning to this peacefully on the Constitutional Commission, we can discuss this and I am prepared to endure further attacks and arguments, because this is a political struggle. What does not seem fair to me, Mr President, through the Vice-President, is to drag the police into this. You mentioned three names here -- two police, one outside the police -- and you proved that I couldn't guarantee the independence of the investigation because there were changes. Mr President, through the Vice-President, I will not comment on GIBS because it is not in the spirit of the Minister of the Interior. I know the reasons why General Trojánek went to Jihlava, but I dare not discuss them publicly here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. I spoke with Mr. Police President Tuhý x-times during our joint operation and I know his reasons for which he decided to use this offer and go to Bratislava. But I don't think we should use it in political warfare. And the worst part is suggesting that in a situation where there's a tender for the police president, yesterday the applications were closed, so suggest that this whole selection process is some kind of jingle! [[Time warning]] That's really not fair!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u51	And now with Mr Ferjenčík in fact and Mr Stanjura will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would simply like to respond briefly to Mr Chvojka's previous speaker through you, and that unfortunately it is necessary to calculate up to the 120 on the early elections, because 92 + 15 is 107, which is not enough to dissolve this honourable House. So your offer is completely irrelevant for this reason, and it's just a smokescreen that you've decided to keep your government seats, so for this reason, you've decided to tolerate the Prime Minister's suspicion of obstruction of your grant fraud investigation. And you tolerate it and cowardly hide behind the SPD. That's your choice. But logically, we think of you as our own. However, I have to agree on one thing, and Mr. Hamáček, the problem really is on Mr. Andrej Babiš's side primarily, but the fact that you are holding him in that position, that's why you're getting part of the responsibility for his scandals. That's your decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u53	That was Mr. Ferjenčík. It's just, because there was a question from the MPs whether there's going to be a lunch break, so I'm just gonna point out that I'm gonna put out a lunch break at 1:00 p.m. at 1:00 p.m. by 2:00 p.m. And now, Mr Stanjura, President of the ODS. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u54	I would ask the Minister of the Interior not to translate my words from Czech to Czech, I did not say such a thing. I have stated the facts of what has changed in those three months, and I have quoted from the Lidové noviny of May when, Minister, you have not yet been in office. And I'm asking how someone becomes the favorite of the police president. And I asked you three specific questions, and I didn't suggest anything. I'm expecting answers, and I'm going to take an opinion from those answers. And it's not true that the attack on the CSSD, and it's not even an attack, it's just an opinion I've spoken with because of what you've decided, because of how unfair you argue and throw responsibility for your own decisions into opposition with your plans B, C and D. The Chamber of Deputies is a sovereign, and it decides which government gets the trust or not! Then don't make excuses for the President or anyone else! And what I really miss about this debate, and that was what Chairman Fiala was talking about at the beginning, and you're completely avoiding it, you're distracting, so there are some values. I quote your article, Minister, and I ask what has changed since May 2017, when you advised and wrote: Mr Babiš, put an end to the embarrassment, and I quote your harsh words, which I agree with in principle. But you don't agree with them after 15 months! And that's the problem I've been pointing out. Those were your words I read here, not mine. That was no opposition attack. That was just a statement of what you said or wrote. And you didn't justify that. Even then, you said we need a government without Andrej Babiš, so that the government can succeed in doing wages, environments, health care, what you repeated today. You just changed your mind. That's legitimate, but don't say that the opposition is responsible for changing your mind! That's just not true! And I made it clear to President Chvojka that there are parties that have declared that they are willing to form a coalition without Andrej Babiš. And they're not communists!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u55	The Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u56	I would also ask that we do not translate words from Czech into Czech. I never said that the opposition was behind the change of heart. We can talk about the political reality, the situation, etc. back then, but I don't want to talk about it. I want to try to answer the questions that came up here. I don't know, I don't have the Prime Minister's diary, and I don't know if he's been seeing the directors of individual police headquarters. I can tell you that during my time at the resort, I have spoken to everyone, several times, and I have a very decent idea of what their qualities are and which one of them could be police president. And the tender is running, the commission is appointed, its composition will be published. The committee will examine the applications received and then propose further procedure to the Minister of the Interior. I'm just saying it's not fair to drag this into this very sharp political discussion right now. Ask the Prime Minister about his diary, that's probably a legitimate question for him, and he'll probably answer you. But the decision whether or not to sign up for this competition is up to individual police officers. Of course, I can have my opinion, I can maybe have my favorite, but again, it is not appropriate in such a tense atmosphere to question the running competition in any way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. Now I have two factual points to make, so Mr Bartošek will have to wait a while. So Marek Výborný. Mr Marek Výborný, please, and Mr Stanjura will be ready. So, so far, two actuals are logged in here to keep track. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u58	Thank you for the floor. Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to see you through this to Mr. Chvojka's colleague. Well, I think even a lawyer knows the ústava very well. And he knows we're not going to vote on Andrej Babiš. We will vote on trust, virtually. distrust the government as a whole. And it is the government of YES and social democracy. So the fact that we're going to vote on Andrej Babiš is just not true. That's exactly the rhetoric that the Prime Minister here has chosen. And on the part of social democracy, it's an absolute alibi, it's been said repeatedly. And indeed, there will be a vote of distrust for the government as a whole, not for Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. And now Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Ambassador, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u60	I think that the President of social democracy and the whole of social democracy are contradicting each other. On the one hand, they're telling us how they see the Prime Minister's big problem, and it's his case, and at the same time they're saying it has no effect on the law enforcement authorities. That's just not true. That's just not true. We were challenging personnel restraint right after the election. And I think those questions are legitimate. I don't mind the Home Secretary's favorite. On the contrary, I welcome the fact that the Minister of the Interior is talking to individual directors. That's part of his job. I would never criticize that. It's just weird to me that Lidové noviny from Agrofert's holding just happened to know six months ago who would most likely win the tender. Don't you find that suspicious, Minister? Isn't that weird? Seems like it to me. And that's it. I have no tendency to tell you who it is or not to be. I just asked specific questions. And since you've already spoken to those county directors, maybe you could have asked them yourself if the Prime Minister was communicating with them and on what agenda. That's a legitimate question. That's not an agenda for the Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u61	Well, thank you. Now, therefore, with priority rights, Mr Bartošek, for the general debate. Please, you finally have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear ministers, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, absent Prime Minister. We are gathered today in the Chamber of Deputies for an emergency meeting to address the country's Prime Minister's personal problems several times. Every government has a name, some kind of name. Since the problems of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic have exceeded the borders of our Republic, I think we can boldly call this government an international disgrace. This country is paralyzed by the personal problems and problems of one person, and that is the Prime Minister. And the Prime Minister doesn't want to involve his own family in this case in order to preserve himself. In countries where we look, where we take a role model, something like this is unthinkable. As well as the role of the Supreme Constitutional Officer, the President, who, instead of seeking a solution and stabilizing the situation in the Czech Republic, seems to be more like the president for a few chosen. On the other hand, I understand. Andrej Babiš is resisting his resignation. Because every democratic party has its own inner self-preservation instinct. All the sides have seen it. ODS, KDU-ČSL, social democracy. And if you have a problem with a person in such a high position, whether there is a corruption case or any other, there is no choice but for every democratic party within its internal mechanisms to deal with it, because it is very important that people do not represent the party in connection with corruption cases. This cannot be the case with the YES movement, because it must be realized that the ANO movement ends with Andrej Babiš's departure from the head of the ANO movement. And it ends with inner chaos. It ends with losing its owner... [[Laughter from the YES ranks.]] Now you're laughing. And I will be happy to wait until the ANO movement is headed by Andrej Babiš. But since the YES movement is not a standard democratic party, it cannot even afford for Andrej Babiš to end up as Prime Minister or end up as Chairman of this movement because that party would plunge into internal chaos. That's how you have your boss. He tells you what's right, what's wrong. When someone raises their voice and disagrees, what happens now is that basically a number of critics have been erased and never made it to the second term. I understand that change is not possible for you, because it would put you all at risk. The situation around social democracy is very funny. Everyone here claims to be part of the coalition, and it has to be said that even communists are part of this coalition, albeit secret, you say how successful the government is. And I don't understand one thing. As it is possible that, when the government is so successful, social democracy does not want to admit to it publicly by supporting the government. I mean, when you're successful, there's nothing to say, we're doing well, we're successful, and we're there, and it's thanks to us. It reminds me of a situation where two people are dating and living together and one of the partners is so ashamed of the other that he doesn't even represent him to his friends. This is the situation of social democracy. It must be realized that we are witnessing the ease with which the limits of what is possible have been drawn. What was unthinkable five years ago is today's standard. And what fell through the government five years ago today is seen as a trivial story. It is necessary to put an end to the matter, to restore dignity to the government and the Czech Republic. And I agree with the Home Secretary that we need to let the police work, which we can actually say is working on. And not as we hear that we think he's already working. I therefore turn to you, honourable Members, fellow Members, those who do not leave the hall when the vote is taken and remain. When we vote on distrust, do you really believe that, as it is, this is the way things are to be dealt with and that the Prime Minister of this country should remain head of government with all that is connected with him? Are you convinced that you're behind the right values, that it's all worth it? Consider the situation and consider it several more times, because nothing lasts forever. One day, we will answer to our loved ones and our children and our voters. But what's most essential is your conscience. More than any other situation here, the past will catch up with everyone. And the Prime Minister should have told you about what's ahead of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u63	And now here's a point of fact. Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk. Well, you're logged in for de facto, but you want a priority. So I'm going to give you space right now, too, because with priority rights, you're basically the only one. There you go. And then, if there were no other preferential rights or factual rights, Mrs Pekarová would be prepared. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the introductory words of President Civic Democratic Party, in which he explained the reasons for the appellants to vote on the distrust of the government, there was talk of what the citizens of this country deserved. Protection of fundamental democratic rules, constitutional integrity and independence of high constitutional functions. All these demands are perfectly legitimate. However, I believe that none of this has been done, is and will not be threatened when the plaintiffs of the Civil Democratic Party, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, STAN will not succeed in their proposal to distrust the government. These values will not be compromised even if the applicants from the SPD fail. But what could be threatened by the irresponsible removal of a functioning and successful government is the governance of public affairs. [[12.30 hours]] Citizens want a functioning government and they want effective governance. And they deserve it. The irresponsible removal of this government does not guarantee the acceleration of the investigation. On the contrary, I believe that this government is ready to cooperate constructively with the opposition, so as to ensure the independence of all the authorities involved in the investigation of not only one media case, but of all our citizens. The rule falls to whom, justice must be blind and enforced regardless of functions and money. The Prime Minister, like the last citizen in this country, has the right to this procedure. I believe that this justice can be ensured in the current composition of the government. I also assume that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic will actively supervise the whole issue through its instruments. Talking about the continued instability of the government, as President Fiala of the SPD suggested, is not based on any particular fact. Mr President Fiala of the SPD through Mr President, the Czech Social Democratic Party is able to promote its electoral programme, a programme for citizens of this country, and social democracy can be very successful in this. And it is the possibility of government success that can be a thorn in the eye of its critics. Mr President Stanjuro, through Mr President, the low and populist arguments about the limousine ministerial posts are unworthy of your person. You were a minister, and you took advantage of those advantages. Limos have many other constitutional officials as well as other officials. I understand that it is better to exhibit the dehonestation of today's minister, but let's make a proposal and cancel our limousines. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, let me express my position on voting on the expression of distrust to the Government. I expressed my trust in the government in its creation. And because, based on personal experience with practical governance and the constructive working atmosphere of the government, I continue to trust that, despite all the problems that will accompany it - and I think that the second government, that is, the parliamentary term that has not been mentioned here, and it was the Prime Minister's period... well, I can no longer remember, I apologize, after the Prime Minister, who faced five votes about distrust, then other right-wing governments faced even six votes about distrust, it is simply a request from the Chamber of Deputies, and I am convinced that despite these problems - and I am suggesting that this institute of voting on distrust is expected to be repeated here, and in our political system it is not abnormal - so despite all these problems that can haunt this government, I am convinced that this government has the capacity to fulfil its programming declarations, and therefore I do not consider it meaningful to vote on distrust by the government. And perhaps a comment on Mr Jurečka's speech through Mr President. While we have our social democratic perhaps, which bothers you, it is clear and understandable in relation to the continuation of the government. And we certainly as a minor coalition partner - and it must be said that social democracy must get used to this post - not only will we not be kicking our partner's ankles, as dwarves did in other coalition governments, but we will not be buying with a coalition partner any posts and other benefits, with which the dwarves also have their experience. What we will strive for and what we will work with will be the programme of the Czech Social Democratic Party. Perhaps that is why the Czech Party is also socially democratic today, in addition to the Prime Minister's problem, the main topic of today's debate, because since Kubice's report, there has been a tendency to eliminate social democracy, because it is the only strong left-wing alternative to right-wing political entities. And unfortunately, even with our clumsyness, we are working very hard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u65	So it was Minister Antonín Staněk and I will now ask for a speech by Mrs Adamová Pekarová. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u66	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, dear colleagues, let me also add the opinion I have on this matter. I think it's a very sad picture of what we've come to, that we're dealing with the Prime Minister's problems here instead of the problems of this country, and instead of dealing with the really important things that are crucial to our Republic and its future, so here repeatedly, insisting that a criminally prosecuted person should be in the prime minister's position, in such a huge conflict of interest, we're getting there again. Everywhere else, and I'm sure not only to the west, but also to the east of us, he would have resigned as Prime Minister by now. In such a case that arose here, it would simply be unbearable, and even his own party would make it clear that something like this is unacceptable to her. I am almost 100% certain of this, I cannot imagine that this would not be the case when we see that he is stepping aside abroad for much more negative things. We're facing a very serious case here, which has opened up a whole series of, say, question marks, or a whole series of questions that we don't have a clear answer to. There's a very likely obstruction of the investigation. It is a major threat to the rule of law in the Czech Republic, and I am convinced that this will come back to us in the future. Andrej Babiš here has repeatedly mentioned that his children are as important to him as they are to any other parent. That he would be willing to give his life for them in the past, he repeated it in several interviews, and yet he claims that he will never, ever give up the position of prime minister and resign. It is my understanding that the prime minister's position is the most prominent for him, even the foremost for his children, because there is no other explanation in my opinion. Many years ago, in 2013, specifically, he swore an oath on his own children and granddaughters. He said then - I quote him: "I can publicly declare here the health of my four children and two granddaughters that there is no way I will ever interfere with the work of editors in Mafra." That said, I was present here, so I remember very well that the first person to talk about their children in connection with this case, the case of the Chapi's nest, was Andrej Babiš himself. So please don't let him lie here at the moment that it's someone else who brought the kids into this. You know, this weird statement that you're dragging your kids into this is not the only one. There's a whole bunch of others. As I said, a number of other issues have been raised in connection with the security risk, because instead of calling it a government of international shame as a colleague, which I think is also very appropriate, this government is also a security risk. If the son of the Prime Minister of the country of the European Union is in this territory, in the territory of Crimea, who is certainly on the lookout for the secret services of the Russian Federation, there are certainly a number of aspects for which the Prime Minister, the President of the Security Council of the State, and therefore the person who has access to a whole series of classified information from his office, I do not think that this is a thing that should be negligible, we should be here to bag it by saying that it is nice in Crimea. It's definitely a matter that we should pay attention to and that shouldn't just cross over. I think there are a number of other aspects that many colleagues have already mentioned, the conflict of interest is enormous, and Mr Babiš is unable to explain a whole range of these things in a credible way. He keeps saying it's a campaign. So I'd like to ask Andrej Babiš who you think ordered the campaign. When you speak of it repeatedly, prove who is behind it. If that's what you're saying, I'm sure there's some facts to it, you must have some background. You say that all the time. [[12.40 hours]] At the same time, I want to be clear about the attacks on journalists here. Although the Slovak delegation is no longer here, which has been watching our negotiations for a while, I would very much hate for us to end up like our neighbours in Slovakia, so that journalists have to fear for their lives. It is not at all a thing that should be permitted for such high-ranking people, such as the Prime Minister of the country, to attack journalists in this way and to label them with words such as hyenas etc. It is completely unacceptable and I think that in a democratic country in which journalists play a very important role, of course, it is something behind the lines. I would like to appeal, and so it is on my part repeatedly, to Members not only of the ČSSD, who have decided to stand up to this very alibistically, but also to members of the ANO movement. A few months ago, I spoke to you from this place that Andrej Babiš represents in his concentration the power he has, in his possession of media and important companies, and at the same time the prosecution that is under way on him, and of course on his immediate family and of his family, he is a man who has brought into politics what we have often defined in the past, a practice of godfatherhood. We've always said that the godfathers here are the ones pulling the strings, and you, your colleagues, and your colleagues, were fighting back. And today we have practices that belong to this, let's say, the mafia, at the highest level, because if there is obstruction of the investigation by the fact that the son and one co-indicted and the witness are dragged away in the territory of another state, apparently against their will, as he claims, it is nothing more than practices that are close to these very circles. Yes, you don't like it, but it is confirmed by these recent events that these words are valid here and that we are witnessing it. And now, unfortunately, and I'm very sad about it, that's what it is. We should be dealing with some very different things here. We should be dealing with pension reform here, the fact that we are not at all ready for future economic crises, which we can certainly come up with, that we are not even ready for the challenges that Industry, for example, brings 4.0, that our education is running out of train and that we are handling it very laxly, and I am afraid that it is really in five minutes 12 in this area. We should be dealing with a number of things here, and instead we are dealing with the Prime Minister's problems again. We have the opportunity to voice our distrust today, and we have the opportunity to give this opportunity to put an end to these debates, in fact, because if we do not do so, I am sure that very soon we will have to address this problem again, because there will be further links. Thank you for your attention, and I very much hope that in connection with or in accordance with your promise, which we all made here a year ago, you will be doing well today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u67	That was Mrs Adamová. I have one factual one here, so Mr. Petr Třešňák will prepare Mr. Karel Schwarzenberg. Mr. President, just a moment, we have one more point in fact from Mr. Třešňák. So, Mr. Ambassador - just a moment - please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u68	Have a nice noon, colleagues. I would just like to add the previous speech by Mrs Adamová Pekarová, who spoke about the attacks on journalists in recent weeks and actually mentioned how Andrej Babiš once expressed himself about not affecting the editors of Mafra, and even swore on it. I took to hand the release of the Young Front Today from Friday November 16th, where I see the caricature of Ivo Lukačovič, which I understand is a common part of political culture and political satire, however the caricature did not stop me as what is written under it: "The fifteenth richest Čech in a new role. Television List has cut into the family background of the Prime Minister, even his son's medical history. This included its owner Ivo Lukačovič among the moguls suspected of using his media for his own business interests." What is important now is the last sentence: "And a man who has so far kept his privacy strict must expect that this too will be public for the next time. " I understand that this may not have been affected by the Prime Minister, or he would have said that he had nothing to do with this and that it is only about the creativity and servility of the editors of Mafra, but on this column it is clear that the Young Front is also involved in such public threats and threats against the owner of another media. I just wanted to add that briefly to the previous speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u69	Okay, okay. I'll read one more apology. Vice-President of the House Tomáš Hanzel apologizes from 12.30 am to the end of the day for health reasons. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg, then. You have the floor, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u70	Mr President, honourable Members, Mr absent Prime Minister, I must say that when I watch the events and reports of the last few weeks, I would not like to comment on this, because I am not an investigator, I am not a judge and I am not a psychiatrist to judge all cases in their complexity, to decide whether your son, your daughter or yourself need mental health care. That's not my job. I'm not a judge, I'm not an investigator. But I am an old man who has been in politics for about 60 years, particularly in foreign policy, who has been a foreign minister of this republic twice, and therefore has many friends and friends throughout Europe. During the last trips out and meetings with foreign politicians, journalists, correspondents from the Czech Republic, I find everything horrified about what is happening here. They do not understand how such circumstances can rule in our country that they do not mind if he is criminally prosecuted, does not mind a trip to Crimea, which, as we know, is in Russian occupation. [[unintelligible]] All of this, that they look at me sometimes with a bitter smile, sometimes with dismay, sometimes with pure gloating and saying, what happens to you, what happened to this country that was the most respected in Europe 20 years ago? Like I said, I'm not a judge. But you, Prime Minister, first you got citizenship in this country, then you gained a fortune here, you even became Prime Minister. It would be proof of at least gratitude if you would resign now and not be a burden on our diplomacy, not a burden on the whole Czech Republic and the shame in all of Europe and around the world. You have no idea how he talks about us. [[12.50 hours]] Yes, you said here how many foreign politicians associate with you, greet you, invite you. I have been in foreign policy too long to know that, unfortunately, foreign policy has many similarities to the oldest craft that exists. And one proof of that is that, both in this trade and in foreign policy, we cannot choose the partner we are talking to. We have to sometimes, and it happened to me that I talked to people whose qualifications I'd rather not talk about, which I knew had blood on their hands. That's what happens to every foreign minister, all the time. As proof that you are respected everywhere, or that it does not harm the Czech Republic, it is wrong for this simple reason. One more time. Please, Prime Minister, free this country and stand back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u71	I am now calling for the next Member to speak, and he is a Member of the Vít Rakušan. I'm just pointing out that as planned, the deal should be at 1:00 p.m. break. I'm not interrupting, I'm just pointing it out. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u72	Mr President, Minister, Ministers, fellow Members, fellow Members. Thank you for your word. Ever since we met here twice to express or distrust the first and second governments of Andrej Babiš, I have considered what the word trust means. The point is that when we trust someone, we express our trust in them, we rely on them at that point. At that point, we have expectations of him, and of course we have expectations of such a person. We want him to be a man of moral integrity, we want him to be a man of some moral principles, we want him to be a man whose word is true, whose word does not go through constant change and the meanings of his words, and the sentences are not moving anywhere. In this context, I must say that nothing changes that Andrej Babiš, as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, clearly does not meet these conditions. We need to understand the context of our entire debate today. We have heard many times that we should talk about serious matters in our House, we should solve problems, and basically it has been suggested to us that the opposition may be holding back by trying to express its distrust of the Czech Government today that we are having unnecessary discussions here. It's not like that. Above all, it is necessary to realise who has linked this game field, who has set the limits on the current political situation. And here's the clear answer. These are all parties and movements that have expressed their confidence in the existing government in the Czech Republic. These are parties and movements that have simply accepted the fact that we have a prime minister with a significant personal problem, a prime minister with a criminal prosecution, a prime minister with whom there is a major threat of conflict of interest in the performance of his mandate. We've heard one sentence from the coalition politicians' speech, why we're talking again about the government's trust, when nothing has actually changed in that time. You're very right. Nothing's changed since then. And that is why we are talking again today about the distrust of the government of the Czech Republic, because the problem that was here is still here, the problem persists, the problem is simply being packed up on various other layers that sometimes act as an adventurous criminal film. But the problem here is created by one particular person, who is the Prime Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic with his personal problem, which burdens our entire company. We have also heard from the mouth of government officials that there is division of society, digging ditches. And I dare say that in 29 years since the Velvet Revolution, no one has dug a deeper moat in our society that divides the individual social classes than the Prime Minister who has a criminal prosecution problem. Our society is divided and is developing a malignant disease that changes the standards that change the ways of behavior and thinking that change the thinking of people who are willing to accept the fact that prosecution with the Prime Minister is simply not a problem, something that is not yet acceptable. And the malignant disease says to everyone he meets: I will never, ever leave. Yet, the one affected by the malignant disease tries to fight it and tries to fight it with all the legitimate means that exist. That is what we, as opposition Members, are trying to do today. And even if this fight doesn't work out for us, the struggle with the malignant disease as with the patients who have it can never give up. We're not talking here today, and I think the whole debate is proof of that, about the health of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. We're talking about something completely different here. We are talking about the health of the Czech Republic. We're talking about our society being sick, and in order to heal, the person who caused it must realize the disease, and that person is Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mr. Andrej Babiš. After all, his problem has specific conventions and impacts on the functioning of our society. I wanted to talk, but the previous speaker Karel Schwarzenberg has already mentioned that the reputation of the Czech Republic for anyone who can read the foreign press is really affected by this case. Of course foreign media are interested, and of course our cases are full. But these conventions and impacts are also reflected in something else. We have noticed many changes in the institutions that are responsible for the security of the Czech Republic. Perhaps during the last six months a few great experts have chosen themselves, perhaps they have actually gone through an equal selection process and maybe they will do a great job. But at this point, the kiss of death lies on them, that they are entering their office at a time when they will automatically be suspected of part of society coming to order and are fulfilling someone's demand. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is time to look into the future of our country and really go back to discussing a number of problems. Our country has many, and their solution is very timely. But it is not possible to do so when society is divided, when the social atmosphere is perhaps the worst that it has been in 29 years. And once again, let's say what the marrow is and the absolute basis of the problem that cannot be relativized. The basis of this problem is and will always be the criminal case of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, who is in a clear conflict of interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u73	I have now noted the new agreement of the parliamentary clubs, that we will skip the lunch break and therefore go on a continuous basis in the discussion of today's item on the agenda. So there will be no pause, and I will gradually invite others to join the general debate. I also call on Mr Marian Jurečka to prepare Mr Jan Lipavský. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u74	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, Members of the Government, honourable guests, please, before I begin with my contribution, in which I also have specific, I think, regular questions about the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, I will allow a procedural proposal to interrupt this meeting until the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior are present. Don't be mad at me, but if we want to have this discussion seriously, without these people being here listening to these things and being able to answer them, I don't think there's a whole point. So I will allow myself to make this proposal now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u75	We have a procedural proposal here. So I'll call you, we'll vote on it immediately. Once again, we have a procedural proposal to interrupt the agenda of the meeting until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and Home Secretary Jan Hamáček. Yes, we have an application for check-out. I'll check you all out, please log in with your voting cards again. [[Shut up, he's gonging again.]] I'm gonna give a little extra space for the Members to show up, because I think someone might have been at lunch because we're going without lunch. [[It awaits the arrival of other Members.]] [[13.00 hours]] Then I will vote because the Prime Minister has come running, but the Home Secretary has not arrived. So your proposal is voteable. So I say again, we're going to vote that there's a motion to interrupt the negotiations in the presence of the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior. I'm opening the vote. Whoever is to interrupt, raise your hand and press the button. If you're against it, press the button, raise your hand. Voting order number 2: 141 Members registered, for 71, against 62. The motion was accepted. I am therefore interrupting negotiations to the presence of the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček. So I just got the information that Secretary Schillerová called the Minister. The minister is coming from the office. So in order to have some kind of time horizon, we'll probably continue in a short period of time. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 13.02 to 13.04 hours.]] We have Minister Jan Hamáček here, so we will begin with the continuation of the interrupted point. The Prime Minister is interested in speaking briefly. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u76	I'd like to ask the House of Honor if I can leave the House from 1:15 p.m. to 1:45 p.m. to say goodbye to the Estonian Prime Minister. So I think you could survive that half-hour without me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u77	So it was the Prime Minister and now - but you ended your performance. Sorry... [[Mr Jurečka claims a word before the speaker's counter, outside the microphone he agrees with the President.]] Your proposal has been voted on, however, all right. I'll give you some space, okay. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u78	Thank you. I think it was last time, too, during the negotiations, and I was allowed to continue my speech further. Thank you for having the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary. I would like to respond to what was said from their mouths, and then I also have regular factual questions that I would like to ask, even after the Prime Minister returns, when he says goodbye to the Estonian Prime Minister if he answers them if possible. We're meeting here in an atmosphere that might not be here at all if it wasn't just the story, but even if the communication from the Prime Minister's side was different from the beginning. We have patterns here in the past, when there were also accusations of politicians and members of governments, but I do not remember Jiří Čunek or ex-minister and today's Commissioner Jourová communicating in such a heated rhetoric against journalists, against those asking questions, and this is the same for example in the case of the criminally prosecuted governor Martin Půta. If there was a fair open approach from the beginning - I will communicate, I will provide all the arguments factually, I feel innocent - I think that this discussion would never escalate into the form that we have today, unfortunately. It has been said a lot that there is an atmosphere that brings economic benefits to the citizens of this country, that the government is doing well, that it can say that it works well. I would very much like us to also live here in society and the Czech Republic, where they are not just the main indicators of the quality of life of our society and people just economic indicators, unemployment rates or raising pensions and so on. Because all these steps would want to be done by any sensible government if it had enough resources to do so and were not a debt to the future. However, it is also important to build a certain political culture in society, because politicians are also certain models and define certain standards that will simply create the bar in the future, which we are unfortunately still reducing in recent days and weeks. Anyway, I'm gonna have to get back to the real questions now, because I've been trying all this time to get into this debate that's been going on for over two and a half years, sticking to the facts. In addition to the story of Capi's Nest, when we heard several versions of the story about who then owned the Capi's čapí and so on, these things are, of course, the subject of the investigation. I don't want to comment, but even then it started to be embarrassing, if what always sounded from the mouth of the Treasury Secretary here in this House was true, and if we can believe it. However, I now have the real questions to the two gentlemen I mentioned, namely whether Andrej Babiš Jr. had been in the territory of the Czech Republic since he was charged, and when he moved here in the territory of the Czech Republic at that time, why he had not been heard so far in about that year and a half, and if it is possible for the Minister of Interior or Police officials to be able to say how and how they were active in this matter. Because the public's questions are quite justified, whether in that year and a half the maximum in this matter has really been done. Then there's also a legitimate question when Andrej Babiš Jr. emailed the police that he felt he was being kidnapped. I think the media here really changed it in the shortcuts, and when I heard the statement and read it, it was like this. So why didn't the police contact him directly at the time, why she contacted his mother, and why there wasn't a supervisory prosecutor about it, and why the police weren't able to pass on this information within their various files, why there are some questions about this procedure. [[13.10 hours]] Furthermore, I think that not only I but also the public would be interested in the question of how the police communicated with their partners in the Schengen area during the last year, within neighbouring states, such as the Slovak Republic police, Austria, but also how they communicated with Interpol, so that it is clear that they did their utmost to communicate with Andrej Babiš younger and to obtain his testimony. Since it is evident from the information that we have that he moved to the territory of the Czech Republic between the roads to Crimea, Ukraine and Switzerland, he left Vienna from the Schengen area, returned to the Schengen area, that the police obviously would have been able to get the opportunity if she wanted the most. And now it's a question of checking and knowing the facts, if it was really with the utmost effort. Then, of course, it is also a question of the matter, which is intimate, family, private, but unfortunately it is drawn into public space, and that is the relevance of those responses and objective health review. These are my specific questions, which I would like simply to be heard if they cannot be heard today, to be heard in the coming days. Because citizens of the Czech Republic are rightly asking about them and would like to know that justice here is simply able to take the utmost steps to enable it to be objective, to apply to everyone, whether it is the Prime Minister or a citizen of the Czech Republic. Prime Minister, you've also said three areas here that there are targets. You said the government was targeted here. That's definitely not the target. We made it clear that this is primarily a question of objectivity and conflict of interest to you as Prime Minister. You mentioned here at the first point who started the first debate about children. We really didn't start it. I'm trying to avoid her. You were the first to talk about them in different contexts. None of us spoke out of opposition about your children or your son and Mr. Protopopov's agents. You used that here today. We really didn't ask that question here. The question is, was it the kidnapping that you put in here that we're asking? I'm here to mention the fact that all we need to do is check out how the police suspected it at the time and how your son felt he was being kidnapped. You've been talking a lot about how this government and you personally are hardworking. I really respect that, and here I appreciate your commitment to foreign policy. I think communicating, driving to talk is the right thing to do. Unless, of course, the results are in it. That's something to be commended for. But I would hate for it to come out in the spirit that previous governments have never worked well here. I think our coalition government, which was part of the three coalition parties, also worked well. That the Prime Minister and its members of the government also tried to communicate with foreign partners, and many good positives have also succeeded. I felt as if Prime Minister Klaus or Prime Minister Zeman were barely communicating with their counterparts abroad that there were no American presidents or Russian presidents in the past. I think they too have had great success in foreign diplomacy. And you also need to remember to be correct in the discussion. You mentioned here that we don't have a program, that we only have an anti-babish program. Please, it's not true. I think that, for example, in the field of foreign policy, the ANO movement in this House relies on opposition political parties, for example, in the form of the enforcement of military security missions abroad. We have proposed very positive impacts here in recent months for citizens of the Czech Republic. Because to just say that we're here to support the reduction of fare, that it's an amazing thing to help the population, well, no doubt, but there are even more pressing topics. Three months ago, when there was an increase in pensions, which we also supported as KDU-ČSL, we proposed adjustment of widow's pensions. We suggested raising pensions for women. For mothers according to children, to add 500 crowns a month to mothers who raised a child for each child. Your Members and your coalition have rejected this. In a situation where women primarily have two and a half thousand crowns of proven lower pensions. You talked about being a pensioner, but unfortunately, these important system proposals have also been swept under the table. I have proposed some important things here this week on the Committee on Budgets, which would also significantly help households and citizens of the Czech Republic, and even those were the things that you have in your government's programming statement. You're talking about supporting children through further increases in discounts. I made a proposal here, which suggested increasing the discount on the first and second children by CZK 500 a month and by CZK 1,000 a month to the third and others. Also, the proposal that would remove the pointless limit of the 60 300 tax bonus today, when honest-working low-income parents are being punished for having more than three children, because that bonus is going to put them down. It was not accepted by your Members. I suggested here a proposal that involved education so that families who are low-income would have a chance that their child would get a better education than their parents. According to the OECD's most recent education report, the Czech Republic is on the brink in this area. Only 22 percent of these families have a chance to get a better education than their parents. In Finland, which you were talking about here, in the Nordic States, that chance is greater than 50%. These meaningful proposals, when I proposed an increase in the discount on a student child in high school and high school by CZK 12 000 per year or CZK 6 000 per year in secondary schools, unfortunately, your Members did not support the Committee on Budgets again. I believe that in the second and third readings, these proposals will receive the support. There is a proposal from a group of Members proposing a reduction in VAT on heat supply because there is a dramatic increase in heat for 4.2 million inhabitants in the coming months. This proposal, which I think is simply a logical answer to a situation and we do not have to view it politically, has not been supported again by the Coalition MEPs. Enough - some voted for it to make me correct. So please nicely, there are a number of meaningful proposals that are also based on your program government priorities that we have here, they have no connection to your person, they are not anti-Babish programming priorities, but unfortunately they have not been supported. You said here that we follow the rhetoric of the worse, the better for the opposition. I am not at all happy about this, and I do not agree with you that such a situation is here today. We as KDU-ČSL have in this country the most municipal politicians from all sides, people who encounter every day in their communities and cities with everyday problems and the reality of people's lives, they have to deal with them, from non-working channels to winter maintenance of pavements and so on. We really want this country to work, to work well, to live well, to be in a safe country. But also in order for the basic principles of a democratic state to work here and it was clear that they were not attacking the media, freedom of speech, that there is guaranteed that justice is indeed justice for all and measures all the same subway. So please, if it were possible to answer my four questions here at the end of today's debate before the vote. I've tried to disprove some of the things you've been talking about that aren't true. We don't just have an anti-Babish theme, and I've never had one myself. We're just pointing out that there are things that have question marks, and those question marks need to be disproved in rational discussion of arguments and not to talk about things that are not really related to this case and these problems. Thank you very much for your attention, thank you for listening to both members of the government. Appreciate it. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u79	So now I have one point of fact. So, Mr Petr Gazdík, who is not present, so I am canceling his point of order. I therefore now call on Mr Jan Lipavský to prepare Mrs Vrecionová. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, let me comment on today's point of view, namely on the distrust of the government. I'll sum up my performance in three parts. In the first two, I will focus on the foreign security policy of this government, and in the third part, I will sum up more or less the reasons why I will vote in favour of this government's distrust. Prime Minister Babiš here today, and he said it repeatedly in the past days, that the Czech Republic can finally be seen abroad, that he has met many important people as our prestige grows. I understand that, of course, self-respect is important, but the Prime Minister is primarily promoting himself and his own interests in foreign policy, playing the home card of migration. And imagine that, as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, you will be given the opportunity to reconcile your long-term frustrated partners, imagine that this solution doesn't really cost you anything or commit you to anything. Well, if you're a rational person, you'll probably jump on that offer. If you are Andrej Babiš, you will reject her with great pompa. [[13.20 hours]] The Czech Republic, which has long refused any cooperation in the area of tackling the migration crisis, has been given a relatively unique opportunity to meet our foreign partners, to show the gesture. We could join, or we could still join the global migration pact. It is important to stress that this is a declarationative, symbolic document that does not bind the Czech Republic to anything and is legally unenforceable. It doesn't establish any right to migration or immigration, it doesn't legalize it, it doesn't introduce quotas, it's all the rumors that spread here. However, it is working with the current state of affairs and respects the sovereignty of signatory countries. And it would really be a symbolic gesture that carries no financial or political costs, and that symbolism is important because it is the first document that puts immigration into the global framework. It solves it like a world problem. And, of course, it shows our unity in resolving issues, solving crises, while at the same time calming concerned African countries and demonstrating our commitment to further cooperation. But this, this necessary gesture, Andrej Babiš rejected this very good gesture. And that once again, we find ourselves in an insulted minority opposition, together with Austria, Hungary, and the United States, perhaps with Poland, in a sort of club of countries that are dominated by populists. And paradoxically, the former minister, now the Deputy Prime Minister and the Home Secretary, said in September that the agreed text of this treaty is consistent with what our country is promoting. So what caused the change? Well, it's an attempt YES to please the electrorate of left and right radical parties. Yes and SPD. Unfortunately, I'm sorry. Well, the global problem requires a global solution. Of course, there is a need to make return policy more effective, to strengthen cooperation with those countries, African, above all, in our case, other countries have other sources, directions. So the decision is not only populist but also illogical. And it is in direct conflict with the long-term policy of both governments, which Andrej Babiš has been a part of this time. Well, I hope the Prime Minister realizes his mistake, he still has a chance to make things right. However, the problem is that the Prime Minister is pursuing a policy that is very unilateral. He does not advocate a policy that unites Europe, which would lead to a strong North Atlantic alliance, for example. So we see a statement of the type to cancel Frontex or reduce its funding. Then he takes it back because he understood that it was probably not entirely reasonable to say. We've witnessed the opera diplomacy where he can make a selfie with some world leaders. I wish him well, of course, but then we witness the embarrassment of putting a statue in Italy, which is owned by the state, still conservation. A number of his comments on the European Union have led to the fact that he has more or less chipped Mr Chmelař's great professional from his position as Secretary of State. And then we witnessed a statement that he went to Russia. But Crimea is not Russia! Crimea is Ukraine. Crimea is Ukraine occupied by Russia. This must always be stressed. This hasn't changed. And then it's these different initiatives, sending drones to the Mediterranean or hysterical support of Hungary. In my opinion, this is not a confident foreign policy. One that would cultivate the European Union and the international environment that the Czech Republic needs to stand in the world to remain a democratic and free state. As far as defense is concerned, I'll say that after four and a half years of the ANO movement, it has finally nominated for the post of Secretary of Defense for a man who is not only competent, but is not only on the media line, but perhaps also doing some work. However, I must ask what the Government of the Czech Republic is doing as a whole for the defence of the Czech Republic. What does he do as a whole? The context is that we are part of a hybrid war, a constant cyber conflict, we are under attack by misinformation campaigns. I remind you of the novice, constantly, that still hasn't been resolved, this case. That's unfinished business. And we are under the influence of various influence operations from abroad, especially from Russia and China. And how does our government react to that? The increase in the cybersecurity budget is not relevant. Individual institutions do not have enough funds to solve the problem. That's the government's responsibility, she should have put it in the budget. It didn't happen. When we look at how GDPR was implemented, we could have adopted some amendments here in Parliament that would make this much easier. It didn't happen. It's useless confusion. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has hacked e-mails from the Číňan and the Rus! What does the government do? We don't know. Probably nothing, or she hasn't told us yet. Instead, we learn that on a state visit to the president in China, PPF is signing a contract with Huawei. With Huawei, who in other civilized countries, e.g. in Australia, it is on the verge of a ban on the use of such equipment. For very good safety reasons. And a well-educated society is a key element in the Information War. The problem is, Mr. Andrej Babiš doesn't need thinking citizens, he needs sheep. So civil education has been eviscerated because it is not in the interests of the holding to lead students to autonomy, critical thinking and responsible citizenship. That's all the reality we've witnessed in these three months. Fortunately, we have also seen that the government has tried to abolish the ethical commission appreciating the anti-communist resistance. We can see how government parties are building a contract register. Maybe it's because he's afraid of what losses CEZ made in Bulgaria. We see how the political scene stood up to politicians' salaries. We had to convene an emergency meeting to enforce this proposal by the government of the past, but it goes beyond this government, after all. Well, we're witnessing some sort of bizarre annabasis with a tender for the construction of nuclear energy, new nuclear sources. The Government's resolution, which gave the Ministry of Industry and Trade some tasks, was therefore extended, so we do not really know what condition it is in, and we have the fullest comments from the Prime Minister or the Minister. However, it is not clear whether or not we need the core. More or less, it's still not clear who's gonna pay for it. And so it is not clear whether, under pressure from the president, the government will sell us out for 70 years to some undemocratic regime. Because it's a $200 billion contract, at least, for 70 years. So let me get this straight. The government of Andrej Babiš is the government of conflict of interest. The conflict of interest has the second richest Čech and Prime Minister in one person. A conflict of interest is held by the Foreign Minister, who keeps his boss on a work agreement at the Ministry, Mr Poche's European Brigadier. The rule of law suffers, but power doesn't mean inviolability. That is why I will vote in favour of this government because I believe in democracy and because this government is violating its own programming statement. It was mentioned here that it was a Palermo coup. It's not a Palermo coup. It's a Agrofert coup. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u81	I will now request a speech from Mrs Vrecionová and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will prepare himself. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u82	Thank you for the floor. Nice starting afternoon, Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, honourable Members. Allow me, too, to justify why I will vote in favour of the vote of distrust to the government of Andrej Babiš today. I will no longer infect public space with other speculations about the Prime Minister's family situation and relations or the health of his family members. That's not even my place. I do not want to discuss in detail the steps of the current left-wing government, which I deeply disagree with. I am very concerned about the populist actions of the government, but I understand that the election was won today by the pure leftist movement YES. This today's meeting on trust, virtually. However, I take the government's mistrust primarily as a vote of distrust in one person. The Prime Minister of Andrej Babiš. I brát this vote as a vote on whether the country's leadership is to be a man burdened with strange history, membership of the DSČ, dealings with StB, strange business ties and activities, efforts to influence the media, efforts to influence independent investigations into grant fraud. [[13.30 hours]] The case of recent days is not about the health of the individual members of the Prime Minister's family, although the Prime Minister himself wants to direct it there so that he can play the poor child and distract himself from the essentials. After all, he showed us this morning. It's not even about the media. It is not even yet the fact that the second richest man of the country, who is also Prime Minister at that time, is sending his supposedly severely ill son to recovery on Russia's occupied territory of Ukraine. I would like to stress this: the Prime Minister repeats that he was in Russia. He wasn't in Russia. He was in Russia occupied territory of Ukraine. Those who today will vote against the distrust of this government and thus hold a completely untrustworthy man in office should bear in mind that the skeletons in the wardrobe of the Prime Minister may be much more than they seem. And someday they will also be responsible for the fact that the country's prime minister was Andrej Babiš, a man who played Mirek Dušín, but in reality he is Lord Voldemort of Czech politics. For me personally, the case of the last few days is a continuation of the debate on whether the police may be the prime minister. In addition, a person who is now under suspicion not only of co-organizing the subsidy fraud, but also of trying to thwart the investigation by keeping the investigation out of the reach of the investigative authorities co-indicted in the case of Capi Nest, Andrej Babiš Jr. As far as I know, Andrej Babiš Jr. and his alleged guardian from Russia, Petr Protopopov, admitted that Andrej Babiš Jr. was cleaned from the Czech Republic every time the case started to stir again. The investigation into the stork's čapí is being disproportionately dragged. Lenka Bradáčová, State Attorney in Prague, admitted in a press release last year - I quote: However, it must be noted that the duration of the proceedings so far is only marginally acceptable. It is undoubtedly a criminal matter, complicated and extensive, when at the same time it is possible to record a procedural unwillingness to cooperate from the parties of some private entities, which is slowing down the procedure. Supervising prosecutor Jaroslav Šaroch even admitted that he was considering the division of the case because all the defendants were still unable to be heard. Even this delaying tactic alone should be a reason for the Prime Minister to resign. How are citizens to trust the police and the courts when there are doubts in the case of the Prime Minister himself? How is the Prime Minister supposed to be a role model for the citizens of the country when he's a suspect in subsidy fraud and obstruction of investigation? How can we ask citizens to respect the rule of law when the Prime Minister himself does not set an example for them? The Prime Minister owes us a number of explanations, but above all, of course, to the public. For example, why the British Bank of HSBC, which also financed the construction of the headquarters of Agrofert in Prague Chodov, provided a total of three loans to the Čapí Nest farm. Because she thought Babiš and Agrofert were behind the Tea Nest all the time. Why did the Prime Minister visit and control the construction of the Chapi čapí at a time when he allegedly had nothing to do with it? Why he was the owner of the domain capihnizdo.cz since December 2007 Agrofert? Why did people associated with Agrofert deal with the entire process of obtaining a subsidy for the Tea Nest? Of course, there are many more questions, and people ask that question. And that's the biggest problem. The Prime Minister is charged with investigating his case with a number of question marks. It's obvious that people and companies are delaying the investigation into the Prime Minister. However, the Prime Minister does not see any reason to resign until the time of the investigation. Even the Communists do not see the reason for the end of Andrej Babiš. The Prime Minister even came to visit them in person and apparently a comrade's good mood ruled at their joint meeting. Well, as they say, old love doesn't rust. And the Social Democrats? On Wednesday, the Social Democrats told us that although the Prime Minister's problems were a little bothering them, they didn't really bother us that much. Well, at least we know who's who. I originally wanted to end my speech with the words of Mr. present-day Minister Jan Hamáček from his text "Mr. Babiš, put an end to this embarrassment" from 2017. But our club president beat me to it, I forgive him. However, since the text is really very good, allow me only a brief quote: We are not in the banana Republic and politicians must be prepared to take political responsibility. Suspicions are so serious that any other politician would have already resigned. No one is expelling Mr. Babiš from politics. Let him use time to disprove any doubt and then ask for the voter's trust. Therefore, I repeat again, Mr Babiš, leave, you will help not only the Czech Republic but also yourself. Every day, your agony only makes things worse. This country deserves stability, economic growth, citizens deserve politicians who don't lie to their face. - What do you say, Minister through the President? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u83	Thank you, too. Good afternoon, everyone, and now, please, for Mr Ferjenčík's debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now look away from the suspicion of obstruction of the investigation faced by the Prime Minister in the case of subsidy fraud, in which he also dragged his own children into, and thus, unfortunately, he put them in a very unpleasant personal situation, but it was his decision to bring them into this, and it is his responsibility. Anyway, that's not what I want to talk about. I will mainly talk about what this government is doing and, above all, does not do in the economic field. When we look at the government's budgetary policy, despite the country's very good economic situation, it proposes a deficit state budget, it can't make investments, these investments are made by tens of percent less than planned in the state budget, and we can only hope that the situation will improve at least a little bit, but it is clear now that the original promises are postponed year by year and year into the future. Nor does the government solve the savings on the operation of the state apparatus. We see no plan to reduce some bureaucratic agendas, how to combine the work of officials into more efficient units if they do the same for example. across the ministries. The Department of Labour and Social Affairs collects social security money, tax authorities collect taxes, and these people do the same thing in fact, citizens fill out the same forms twice, and there was no savings or plan for it here. Nor does the government solve the problem of lack of experts, e.g. There are dozens of vacant jobs for qualified people at the Ministry of Justice precisely because the State does not offer them adequate assessments against their qualifications. The state is unable to obtain ITs, lawyers, project managers, people who are needed to move some things forward, and as a result, a lot of agendas are finally outsourced to external suppliers who are doing this far more expensive than the state employees could have done, even though they would have been adequately paid and would have had better salaries than the state is now offering them. [[13.40 hours]] Tax collection - it is the flagship of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. But if we look at the numbers, they show that the view is far from as good as the Prime Minister pretends to be in the media. When we compare the implementation of the state budget for the first half of 2017 and the first half of 2018, the current situation shows worse figures in both VAT and corporate taxes. The budget implementation is decreasing at a percentage rate compared to last year's plan. What is even more alarming is that there is also a decline in absolute figures in corporate tax. In the first half of 2018, the Czech Republic collected almost a billion less from legal entities in taxes than during the same period of the previous year. While the government has launched a tax combine on businessmen, pushing other EET waves, we have hedge orders and a lot of repressive measures, control reports, so apparently large companies are leaking tax obligations and the government is unable to withdraw from the largest corporations even as much taxes as last year. YES, they talk a lot about a stable tax environment, predictableness, a state conducive to entrepreneurs. Let's see how this works in practice. We have an amendment to tax laws, tax package, print 206, and it has not been approved to enter into force on 1 January. It is the fault of the ANO Members who voted early on the holiday to answer you, Madam Secretary through the President, instead of dealing with this law in time to be approved. That's your famous motto for working. You'd rather go on vacation and leave the businessmen in the lurch. In July, the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies ended two days earlier, and this law failed to discuss it because you wanted to go on holiday. [[Mr Hájek disagrees.]] I'm answering people from the O.R. Another major economic problem for this country, which the government absolutely does not solve, is the flow of profits from this country. According to data from the Czech Statistical Office for 2017, it achieves more than 8 percent of gross domestic product, according to various methodologies it ranges between 300 and 400 billion. Kroner a year, and it is really the largest boulder on the foot of our economy at the moment, which practically makes it impossible for us to catch up with the West. In such a situation, I would expect the government to make a working group and start to develop a plan and a set of measures to address this situation, such as how to favour reinvestments, how to prevent the flow of money into tax havens, how to promote tax control for the largest corporations, how to work together at European level, so that Facebook and Google would be adequately taxed. Instead, nothing is happening, on the contrary, measures at European Union level are often boycotted by the Czech Republic. This is a fundamental problem for our economy, which the government absolutely does not solve. Andrej Babiš often boasts that we are experiencing unprecedented prosperity. Yes, it is. However, the government's share of this is more of a "doing nothing, nothing will spoil" level. By not doing much in the economic field, the government has ensured some relative stability, such as taxes, which, of course, helps the business sector to some extent. But the problem is that we are falling behind in a number of areas. We are lagging behind in the field of education, where, for example, in the fields of apprentices, the situation is miserable. And instead of the government dealing with the quality problems of those schools, their students' prospects, it solves the fact that they limit places in other schools that are more interested in. We are lagging behind in infrastructure. The construction of a high-speed railroad is not in sight. The completion of the motorway network promises Minister Ťok twelve years, which will certainly not rule here anymore. Likewise, the level of public administration is one of the biggest barriers to the growth of the Czech Republic's economy at the moment. And again, no light at the end of the tunnel is in sight. The government is still as rigid and the government is not taking any steps to improve the situation. And those are the real reasons why this government is not going to get my trust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u85	Thank you, too. I now ask Mr Blažek Pavel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u86	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I'm actually going to take advantage of the opportunity at this point to comment on some aspects that I've drawn attention to several times. And now all that happened was that Prime Minister Babiš and the ANO movement reap the fruits of what I don't want to say completely that they used to sow, but at least they didn't prevent it. It is, for example, what I wanted to say is that when the YES movement entered into politics, I remember how, for example, Mr Stropnickýý was in our country in South Moravia and around it was a password that sounded "even rights for everyone." Well, you can't argue with that. But the equal rights for everyone, it's not just about approving some laws and regulating the state, but it's also about having the same access to the same things that are happening. And here I am at the core of the thing. In the past, I've been here several times, and I'll give examples, not only did I point out, but I think a lot of me, how things are being used in the media space, for example, in police files. And what did Prime Minister Babiš do today against it? Not only did nothing, he even liked to feel it. Today, he complains terribly about the various practices that are in the media, but we have to admit, and please, in order to admit it, the YES movement, as it often used against its opponents, has read various articles from different people against someone, there were various components, but even there were really support for taking them out of police files and they were quoted here. Because President Babiš is following, it is such a strange thing, such a strange way of thinking, when something is happening against someone and it is not a coincidence of the YES movement, so it is always true, it is always good and exposed to villains, godfathers - and now fill in what you want. Whatever you write against Mr. Babiš, it's always untrue, it's always a certain one, as he always calls it, a campaign and similar expressions. But even if a member of the government, even a vice-president of the government who was four years ago, admits that it is written in the media public, as he says, all kinds of nonsense, and then repeats it, it can be no wonder that one day it will happen to him, and now it doesn't really solve anything but this for two weeks. For example, his speech today. He said that Mrs. Slonková and Mr. Kubík are hired mercenaries if I stay on board. But Mrs. Slonková didn't show up from a helicopter in Switzerland at once, and no one ever knew about her. She does the job the way she does it, and someone thinks that well, another thinks worse, she's been doing at least 20 years. To be a hired mercenary, you must have someone to hire you. And who hired Mrs. Slonková? Me? Mr. Andrej Babiš. So if he's hiring hired mercenaries, if I stay on this date, then he can't complain when these hired mercenaries are also working against someone other than what he originally thought. I don't think they're hired mercenaries, but I have to stay in the rhetoric the Prime Minister had. Then why did the Prime Minister take Mrs. Slonková there? If he's a hired mercenary, he probably married her to write against other people than him. So suddenly he's somewhere else, and now it's a terrible tragedy that he's writing something about him or, say, against him. [[13.50 hours]] And that's the totally uneven approach. If Mrs. Slonková had stayed in the Mladá fronta, she discovered some sort of affair in the ranks, for example, I will now say to our party, ODS, TOP 09, she used a hidden camera, so I am convinced, and it bothers me about Mr. Babiš that he would not have stepped out and said: I will not deal with it, that is the campaign, that should not be done. He'd read it here, and he'd be screaming: it shows how the traditional parties, etc., we already know that. That means, and here I mean, I don't deny Mr. Babiš any hard work and that sort of thing. Still, I dare say he didn't grow into that position from this point of view. That is why I will be voting against this government today. And let me give you a little bit more detail. I completely understand that there is an election campaign. Unfortunately, part of these election campaigns is what's called the popular smearing of dirt on competition, but then some electoral result is announced, and people who are successful get into executive power, into very high constitutional positions. And there shouldn't be vote hunters here anymore, but they should have exactly what they promised, which means equal access to everyone, specially observed. I say that Mr. Babiš has never followed it in this sense at all, and vice versa, and I will give you two examples, he supported these methods, which he himself criticizes today. The first case, and I say in advance, I don't know Mr. former Police President Tuhý at all, but I do remember very well when that dispute broke out in the government about what's going on in the police, so it was the members of the YES movement who read here what got out of the police files illegally, who printed it, other than the Lidové noviny, and it was read as proof of the fact that Tuhý is a villain. Now tell me the difference between what we're dealing with today in terms of journalistic ethics and what happened before, with only one difference - it was about someone who didn't like Mr. Babiš. As soon as it concerns Mr. Babiš, it's just illegal, horrible, immoral, etc. Here I want to say, the case was even worse, and I also pointed out, here it even occurred that at the High Prosecutor's Office in Olomouc they chose one single police officer who was willing to do it, put some paper in his hand, and he ran to tell the journalists because it was appropriate for Prime Minister Babiš to do so. All I can tell you is the court already said it wasn't in the public interest. Unfortunately, the reporters wrote inaccurately that the court said it was in the public interest. It wasn't! The man was not convicted simply because it was said that the hazard level was not such as to be a criminal offence, and it was a disciplinary error. I remember, and I felt like a fool at the time when I visited the Security Committee, as you were running for YES by some Members at the time, I am not going to say them now, for signatures to Mr Ištvan in a book and that sort of thing. I was staring. Ištvan came as John Lennon, and yet it is his office that supported this, never punished it, and of course it goes on, these practices. The second example is, please, about three weeks old. And here I would even say that the Prime Minister, in the same logic, even abused the position directly when he had a press conference after the government and began to read some paper about something that was happening in Brno, especially about people in Brno. And I have to stop by again. He printed an article. Because he was against someone other than the YES movement, that was true. There was all this nonsense, and I'll tell you why there was nonsense and who wrote the article. And Mr. Babiš stands up, he reads the article so everyone knows, and now the journalistic hunt for people he's never actually seen, and he threw them into this, and it was written what was written. This article, just so you know what everything always suits Mr. Babiš when it comes to a media game, is written by a Jan Urban. When Mr. Faltýnek here sometimes lists various cases that have happened in the past, and actually Mr. Babiš also, they often name the Diag Human case. tenhle Jan Urban, who suddenly suited the Prime Minister literally to throw mud at some of Brno's representatives, so this Jan Urban was once a hidden agent of Mr Šťáva, or owner of Diag Human, then he was exposed and wrote an incredible number of articles to defend one of the largest state budget tunnels in our history, and this is a tunnel where billions of crowns were to be paid for one letter. And he defended it secretly for about ten years, then he defended it publicly. And now, when this guy, who's essentially promoting one of the biggest tunnels in our country, writes some way to say it now, to be polite, a series of stupidities, and the Prime Minister can use it, he can read it. Then he can't be surprised if someone else reads what he thinks is a series of stupid things, and Slonková writes it. It's the same thing. To Jan Urban. I'll take that opportunity. Jan Urban then tried with Mr Šťáva for Minister Fišer from the Czech Social Democracy to draw three billion crowns on so-called. peace. That's when the Ministry hired me as an attorney, and I wrote an opinion back then, and so Minister Fischer didn't approve the money, and Zemanův's government confirmed that decision. Since then, Jan Urban has been writing crap about me all this time, taking revenge for it. That's my personal business. But it's no longer a matter if the Prime Minister from anyone, any villain who writes, he gets the media, he reads it. But woe when it happens to him! I'm sure that's awfully unfair. And that is actually the reason, and the Prime Minister, who is not here, but I would also like to tell him personally, must understand that if he does not want some phenomena to happen, I must defend them even if they happen to others. So, Mr. Babiš, I'm going to say this differently, Mr. Babiš as Prime Minister, I'm only going to consider it when I note that some campaign has been campaigned on by his great opponent, and he says no, that's not what I'm dealing with, that's the campaign. He's never done it before, not once, but he's always taking advantage of it. For example, this is my reason for voting against this government today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u87	I, too, thank you, and now, please, Mr Mihola, who is signed up for the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u88	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a number of arguments have already been raised here, who will vote for the government or against the government, or what position they will take. Why will I vote for distrust of the government of the Czech Republic? For the same reasons I didn't support her in voting on trust in July this year. It is a government that relies on the support of the KSČM, whatever we call the pact, and has a criminally prosecuted prime minister at its head. Those two reasons are good enough for me. I know, there are opposition parties, respectively. The movement, the SPD, let me be specific, which does not mind these very reasons at all. I'm not going to beat the government as a whole here. So far, it is relatively short-lived, and the world economic situation is playing into her hands. Moreover, I can appreciate from the opposition what has been done for the citizens of this country. But please, a little humility and self-criticism, Mr. absent Prime Minister. I do not feel that, for example, the situation on our motorways has changed dramatically, teachers have expected a wage increase of 20 percent before, they will be 15 percent from the New Year, so I could continue to be fair. But let's leave the farm. We recently had November 17th, next year it's going to be 30 years since the Velvet Revolution, and it's fulfilling its ideals? I'm sure many citizens thought that by 2020, the communists would already be in the fold of history. The reality is that they are now an important pillar of government, actually for the first time since the revolution. The Prime Minister is complaining about journalists. I myself do not really need certain types of journalistic inquisitiveness, especially with the help of a hidden camera and similar ways, but let us be objective. If we're complaining, we should be strict on all sides. And I happen to notice a duel last night, I think it was repeated on Barrandov Television. I believe the Prime Minister liked it, I would also like it, such a journalistic confession on TV or in any medium, because the approach of this duelant, I can't think of more appropriate terms than approaching words like an anus alpinism. You're saying -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u89	I'm gonna ask you to be modest in your speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u90	That's the termus technicus, isn't it? Correct me if I said something vulgar, but like when objectivity, then objectivity. I think that approaches are really very different, so we should be fair on all sides if we want to. You're saying you're doing everything you can to get us to the front. But thanks to you, we are also having discussions in the Chamber of Deputies on topics that rather evoke the weakening of trust in the rule of law. Wanting to tax what was stolen is just crazy. The Istanbul Conventions and similar proposals contribute only to the sound of the mood in society, contribute nothing and do nothing. Prime Minister, I'm sure there's a commendable active foreign policy. I would just add a proper emphasis on human rights and democracy in the world. Did you ask during those meetings with the premieres from France to Lithuania how they would proceed in your situation? In most countries, the criminally prosecuted Prime Minister would resign, or he wouldn't be able to stand up for that position at all. I do not think that there is a government crisis, but rather a moral crisis. And you know that it is often emphasized that in the moral crisis, the economic crisis, which may also come soon, will begin, and I hope that this will be as soon as possible. I would very much appreciate it if you could put the interests of the Czech Republic above your interests and ambitions and resign. Your coalition partner would appreciate this, as ČSSD has said more than once. You wouldn't be surprised how many coalition floor plans would come about at once. We wouldn't need a minority government. We should have a majority, stable government that could work fully for our citizens. Then there will certainly be a chance that we will be better off with all our citizens and, as a result, with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u91	Thank you, too. And now I beg Mr Bauer, who is in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u92	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, honourable members of the Government, Prime Minister, honourable colleagues, there have been many strong arguments about why the government should fall today. The Prime Minister rejects them and tells the media that he does not understand why we vote on mistrust at all when the government is so successful. I am happy to answer you, Prime Minister, through the President, of course. We are voting on distrust of the government because the Constitution does not allow us to vote on distrust of the Prime Minister. Let us imagine for a moment that it would be possible and how it would have turned out. Your own MPs and communists would give you confidence. A total of 93 votes. Everyone else wants you out of the government. Including President Hamáček and Mr Okamura. And maybe even the Communists would throw you overboard. They could no longer pretend to maintain the stability of the government, they would have to admit that they are the only ones who agree that the criminally prosecuted person should be Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. When the vote tonight is over, go ahead and brag about how the government is successful. I don't think so, unlike you. But then step back. The vast majority of democratically elected Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic want this, and the vast majority of democratically elected senators of the Czech Republic want it. And if you do that, maybe in a few years, you won't have to sneak into National Class at midnight like a thief, and no one's gonna throw your plant in the trash. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u93	Thank you, too. And I beg you, Mr Excellent, who is in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u94	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Prime Minister, Dear Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on distrust of the government is no theatre. This is repeated from the mouth of members of the government coalition. And this really isn't a theater. The vote on distrusting the government is a very serious matter. I would ask very much not to question the fundamental constitutional principle when the government is responsible for its work to the Chamber of Deputies. It is also completely inappropriate from my point of view to talk about the coup. No one here, Prime Minister, is putting you up against a wall with a gun to your head. It is the right of Members to call for a vote on the Government's trust, and this right is given by the Constitution. Let me briefly comment on the opening apology of the Prime Minister that has been said here. The degree of misunderstood what the problem is, from my point of view, can no longer be higher. I listen to the Prime Minister, and I hear words that don't belong at all to the House's land, but in my private opinion, even in public space. This isn't about the Prime Minister's family at all. We have no right here to speak and examine your son's health. Your business problems are not to be discussed here at all. How do I see it? We solve family problems at home and let our possible conflicts with the law be dealt with by law enforcement authorities. But I ask, what is the Prime Minister doing, the key person in our constitutional system to minimize the conflict of interest he is in? What does it do to minimise the security risks for the Czech Republic resulting from its multiple roles in which it is located? What does he and the government do to strengthen trust in the rule of law? What does he do to make it clear that the rules apply equally to everyone? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid I don't hear anything like that. I feel like we're completely missing out on today's problems. And that's really hard to debate. And yet it's so simple. No one, and I speak here as a KDU-ČSL MP, denies the right to rule, manage and care for our state. It is only about admitting that the YES movement is not one man's party, for it is repeatedly called upon by its coalition partner. And the excuse that the President of the Republic doesn't honor any constitutional customs won't hold up. There is a significant difference between assigning someone to form a government and being appointed chairman of the new government. And it has already been mentioned here today, we have this historical experience within the democratic Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, we are repeatedly attacked that we do not have a program as opposition, that the only program is a kind of anti-babish. That's not true. We repeatedly say that we behave constructively. It was already at the time of the debate about the establishment of a new government after last year's elections. We support everything we see as beneficial to the citizens of the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, one of the few, it is unfortunately, one of the few examples that there may be an agreement on a reasonable solution for hundreds of thousands of citizens across the political spectrum here in the House, is a recent amendment to the insolvency law. 154 votes in the third reading in the final vote are clear evidence of this. But why can't there be other things? I ask why the government coalition will not allow a similar consensus on other issues. [[14.10 hours]] Members of the KDU-ČSL, although we are opposition Members, have come up with a number of proposals over the last year that could help thousands of our citizens, which were a clear expression, for example, of pro-family policies. For example, the system of tax bonuses for children working for parents, support for teachers, and remedying the state of their quite undignified salaries. I could give a concrete example here of the repeatedly presented adjustments to the allowances for the work of class teachers, which is repeatedly sabotaged by the government coalition, as well as the proposal to address the potential problem of future increase in heat prices. And I could go on and on like this. And it is not only KDU-ČSL MEPs' proposals, but also other opposition parties'. But that is what the government coalition, under the guise of the alleged inconclusiveness, the other excuses, is fiercely resisting. I understand. It's just things that voters appreciate and yet the opposition can't bring them. Why did I support the vote and even the inclusion of this item and the instigation of this extraordinary meeting on mistrust by the government? Because there are principles that we must defend to whom we fall, and there are situations where, as Members, we can no longer remain silent with the reference that we are not going to change anything anyway. The rule of law, constitutional order, security of all citizens, trust in the political system, trust in us, politics. We can't be held hostage by one person, whoever it is. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is setting a bad example for all citizens with his stubborn approach, and this is damaging to our country. We hear lamentations, and often from his mouth, over the division of society, but it is this stubbornness that has devastating impact, literally devastating impact, on the atmosphere in society, on trust in justice and justice. That is why I will vote in favour of the current government's distrust. As opposition, we have a duty to say out loud that some things simply cannot be crossed in a democratic society without blinking an eye. Václav Havel said that we do some things precisely because we consider them decent and honest and not with regard to the outcome. That is true today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u95	I, too, thank you and please Mr Kopřiva, who is signed up for the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, honourable public, many things have already been said here, so I will not repeat them. I will focus on those agendas that we are discussing on the Committee on European Affairs, or on some media statements and the appearance of the Prime Minister in particular, who, I think, does not give us a good name abroad. The first thing that bothers me about the current government, just as it bothered me in the previous vote on trust, and now for the third time, the situation persists that the foreign policy of the Czech Republic is uncoordinated and I rather feel that it is not coordinating more and that the situation is worse and worse. At the moment it seems to me that four people run the foreign policy of Czech politics - Mr Petříček, Mr Poche, Prime Minister Babiš and President Zeman. They will sometimes coordinate, especially the Prime Minister and the President, who created a kind of tandem in this autocratic Eastern regimes and also the rhetoric within the European Union, but I think that even in many cases, which happened, the non-coordination led to the fact that foreign partners did not really know who to negotiate with for the Czech Republic, they did not know the position of the Czech Republic because each of the appointed masters simply had a different position or position, or maybe it was uncoordinated. So this is the main thing that I think is harmful to the Czech Republic both in non-European policy and in the framework of a Union policy that is so semi-domestic, it is neither completely foreign nor completely domestic, but it is necessary to act actively and coordinatedly. When we look at the Prime Minister's statements in the long run that he is presenting himself here to the voters at home, so the main priority was supposed to be migration, saying that he was going to say that the Prime Minister himself would take care of it, that he would not be able to deal with it, that he may be the most capable, which may have happened in terms of quantity, so he was really talking about it, so there were some issues that were more sensitive, more current, perhaps, but, let it be, the Prime Minister's priority, so that maybe at that European level he talked about it a lot, but I fear that he was talking even more about it here at home, and that in the end, the permanent relocation mechanism, the so-called quotas, so let's just say that he dropped it out of the information we have, if we look away from the media presentations of the Prime Minister, it seems more like a retreat of the other European leaders who pushed those quotas, and it was more like a retreating them, and on the other hand, and on the other hand, we didn't think of the alternative of our side. We have discussed this many times on the Committee on European Affairs, I would say more than ten times, and every time we asked the Prime Minister before the European Council summit, what the Czech Republic will offer actively as an alternative, so we have seen such as general fables, we have not heard too specific steps, or perhaps those specific steps were invented by the Ministry of the Interior, that police officers or some officials or some equipment were sent somewhere, but which was at best comparable, if not to a lesser extent, compared to the other Member States. So we could see several times on the Committee on European Affairs that the Prime Minister then preferred to give the floor to Secretary-General Chmelař, who, which has already been said here, unfortunately is no longer in his position, there has been an exchange in some unclear circumstances, and the result is that although the result corresponds to what was in the interests of this House and the Czech Republic, although the quotas are not, I certainly would not see it as any significant negotiation success. Another great success that he presented at European level was that of the reverse charge already mentioned. It took several years and I would like to commend the government that it was one of the few things that succeeded directly, it was directly from the Czech Republic's pen, which must be acknowledged that this is how I imagine active participation within the European space, yes, but again - under what circumstances it was. The Czech Republic, because the reverse charge has blocked us some states, which is not a completely constructive approach and it is right to define itself against it, but the Czech party's approach that we have blocked actually a change that would allow electronic publications to be transferred to a reduced VAT rate, which I think is in the interest of everyone, just this exchange, I think this political deal has once again not thrown us into a completely nice light, that we are actually angry again, as with the migration, so we were actually blocking something that was, some other thing that was constructive and in favour of everyone. As far as other European policies are concerned, of course, for me as a pirate, protection of network neutrality of Internet users and, on the contrary, some meaningful regulation of large platforms and large content providers are important. Here the positions of the Czech government are usually rational, that is true, and we can see that again on the Committee on European Affairs, for example, the framework position of the government that comes to us on the table, and those that are rational, so they are rather outside the light of the media spotlights, so these are positions that are written by government-level experts on the Government Committee on European Affairs, and those positions often have heads and heels there. [[14.20 hours]] Unfortunately, unfortunately, for example, the recently approved copyright directive, against which we have defined ourselves and which has been approved by the European People's Party in particular, the European People's Party, which is in opposition to the ALDE faction in the European Parliament, against the faction in which the MEPs are the government party, so we have defined this directive on the committee and we have actually asked about the position of the Czech Republic. And unfortunately, we have not yet found a completely constructive dialogue. This is not a complaint, please. This is an appeal that this communication with the Committee on European Affairs has some level. However, I think that at that level of the European Council, the Prime Minister should address all topics, although I understand that copyright is not his concern, so someone in this House is interested. And it's not just about migration all the time, there's just a lot of topics. And while I understand that the only migration in the Czech Republic can be presented nicely, or enforced reverse charge, I would still like to appeal, and it is one of the reasons why I think this government is not active at European level, that the same topics are still being dealt with. It's still migration. But when it comes to other topics, the Czech Republic may have a position on this, but it doesn't mention it anymore, we don't really put our interests on other topics anymore. [[Noise in the hall.]] So much for being involved in European politics. I would particularly pierce migration, migration policy. It's already been said here. I think that not accepting the global pact on migration is a big mistake. I am even convinced that if this pact were to be held in the name of immigration, that the Prime Minister would be on the front line and that he would be the one who wants to accept it as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, the pact has only migration in its name, so once again it is a smoke screen, it is some straw shot that we need to replace, define and which we need to beat, even if it makes perfect sense in my opinion, because it is in the interests of both the Czech Republic, in line with the positions adopted by this House as regards return policy, the acceleration of those proceedings and the like, so this pact is in the interests of about half a million Czech citizens living abroad. I think it's hurting them. And the non-acceptance of the global migration pact by the Czech Republic goes against the interests of the Czech Republic. As far as migration to Europe is concerned, I do not think the Czech Republic is showing much solidarity. And once again it has something to do with it, just like we all do not agree with the relocation mechanism, so we should have offered something constructive. And when we always asked, the answer was that we provide material and financial assistance to those countries where the immigrants come from and where the problems arise. Well, that's nice, but if we look at the history of Czech contributions to development cooperation and transformation cooperation, then the current draft budget for next year and the budgetary outlook, the Czech Republic lags behind. We're in this below average, and that means we're taking that part of responsibility rather lukewarmly and just so it doesn't say. But I still miss the constructive part that we offer, what we contribute. The last thing to keep me from doing is to criticize Frontex, which we heard from the Prime Minister's mouth. And once again there was this criticism, so it was full of media that disliked Frontex, but we didn't actually hear the "b," the alternative that the Prime Minister offered for the Czech Republic. The last area, which also relates to foreign policy, but also to the domestic one, is the area of human rights. I'm the one who interrogated Minister Pelikán here, who did a good job, and we have to admit that. And unfortunately, he was expelled from the government, left the government, or rather left. And so we still have not only the Minister of Human Rights, but in this area, and this also has to do with the concept of civil education, which we have been discussing here recently, so these things are just scrubbing. And in the area of diplomacy, we have recently discussed the way of the President of the House to Russia, but this does not concern the government. But we can at least recall the appearance of actually government officials and, again, in particular, the Prime Minister in relation to Russia, China and Turkey, which, from my point of view, are authoritarian regimes where the level of democracy and freedom and the promotion of civil society is very serious, still demoting, and actually does not mention that aspect of human rights in the diplomacy at all. Now the last time we saw it was on the way to China by the Secretary of State. Oops, there's no place for human rights. So they just close their eyes to it. [[Noise from the left side of the hall.]] As far as the relationship with the People's Republic of China is concerned, I think it is quite obvious that there will never be any kind of invention or proactivity on the part of the government, because, in short, the Prime Minister and the President have created a kind of tandem where the castle party is simply not in the interest of the team around the President to address, for example, the human rights issue in China. So again, the situation in China is getting worse. At the moment, even the Chinese regime itself admits the existence of reeducation camps. The situation in Tibet is not improving. The environmental situation is not improving.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u97	I would really ask the left side of the hall for peace, there's a lot of noise compared to the right. I'm not hearing anything, so I'd like to ask you to move your actions to the lobby, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u98	Thank you, Mr President. In this way, we have separated the last thing that I think is most serious, and that the Chinese regime creates a central sort of evaluation system where it evaluates citizens according to their behaviour, monitors their every move, and then those citizens have access to rights, such as traveling or buying things and so on. And this, unfortunately, is kept silent during Czech state visits to China, and the government supports this openly. The last thing that is again related to human rights as well as to European politics, after all, to the world's, for example, the global pact on migration, but also to other things, is the rhetorical plane, actually the tendency towards people like Viktor Orbán, where the sparkle between our Prime Minister and the Prime Minister of Hungary is actually obvious, and actually the rhetorical inclination even then practically, as far as the intensity of contact is concerned, so everything suggests that indeed the model in foreign and often domestic politics for the Czech government is Viktor Orbán. I just don't want to be in a club with Viktor Orbán. For these reasons, I will not support the government, just as I have not supported it in the past. That shift just didn't happen, so today I'm voting for the government's distrust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u99	Thank you, too. Your performance brought up two factual points. First, please, Mr Kasal. Mr. Skopeček will be ready. And I'm gonna ask for some peace in the O.R.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u100	Mr President, I do not want to prolong the debate, but I had to speak. While I have two universities, through Mr President, honourable Member, I only understood a few parts. I don't want to delay. I'd like to ask you if there's any way we could have a chat outside later, and you could explain some other things to me. In any case, you have a great gift that you have said a lot of words that I have not understood the subject at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u101	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mr Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u102	Thank you for the floor. There was one serious issue, namely the migration pact for which the pirát condemn the government for rejecting it. I would like to paradoxically commend the government for that, but I would like to criticize it for something else, namely a blurry position in this matter. We, as opposition, brought the migration pact as a topic on this floor of the Chamber of Deputies, we discussed it and the Foreign Minister, then Mr Hamáček, explained to us here how it is actually an unimportant, noncommittal pact. He argued that it does not introduce migration as human law, even colleagues from the ANO movement rejected the resolution in which we proposed to call on the government to withdraw from this migration pact if it turned out in its final version that it actually introduces migration law as human law, and if the truth that I believe is true, the concept of legal and illegal migration is being diluted in that pact. And that's when we heard from the Minister of the same Government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, towards the Members very serious words about where he said that the pact was actually unimportant, not unbinding, that it does not mean any obligations for the Czech Republic. It's been a few weeks, I don't know if any inquiries have changed between voters, if there has been another survey, and the Prime Minister who says we reject the pact because it introduces migration as human law. So I want to ask, who are we supposed to trust in this government? Are we to trust the State Department and the Foreign Minister who represents it, or are we to trust the Prime Minister who says the opposite of what the Foreign Minister said after a few weeks? That's completely unacceptable in such a serious matter. In foreign policy, we should be looking for a consensus across the political spectrum. And if the government and its individual members can't find it among themselves, then how can we look in the world to promote our national interests? This is also one of the reasons why I cannot vote in favour of this government because it is irresponsible and erratic in the field of foreign policy. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u103	Thank you. And please, with Mr Feranc's point of view. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u104	Hello, Mr President. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I respond very briefly to the performance by Mr Kopřiva and Mr Skopeček, two allies in opposition. I've finally really seen what Plan B looks like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u105	Thank you, too. I now ask Mr Zaorálek, who is enrolled in a proper debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u106	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to remind you of a history written by the Spanish writer Javier Cercas in his book, which is called, if it were to be translated, sort of like the autonomy of one moment. This Spanish writer describes the situation in Spain in 1981. This has been an interesting year, according to some key to Spain, because Spain has lost the Francoist regime, but the fight for democracy has not yet been decided by far. Moreover, they were dealing with 20% unemployment and 15 percent inflation, so it was quite dissatisfied that the democracy they had created was actually inoperable, that democracy was unable to deliver what it promised, and it is actually no better than the franchise regime. And that's when it happened in the Parliament of Spain that, on these tense days, when it seemed that something was really hanging in the air and something was going to happen, 200 armed officers led by the colonel burst into it, and the 200 colonels started shooting straight away, they said they were taking over. It was just a regular attempt at a military coup. With the Spanish democracy, it looked very bad at the moment. Interesting is what happened. Most of the MPs who were there jumped under the bench because there were bullets flying, so what were they supposed to do? They're hiding. And as the historical anals say, three people saved Spanish democracy. I don't know if I'm gonna name them exactly. One of them was called, I think, García. García was a man who was a politician just under Francův's regime. The other one, he was the head of the Communist Party, and such a not-so-cool figure, and the third one was General Mellado, who fought on Franco's side against democracy. And these three not-so-cool guys went straight to those other MPs. And actually, the three of them turned the coup around. So it's said in Spanish history that these three who looked so weird saved Spanish democracy. Three very unlikely heroes. You know, I remember this history because we actually care about it, and we've been talking about it in the last few days that we want to save democracy in this country, we want to defend it. And I take it seriously because I'm a Social Democrat. And to put it briefly, I believe that democracy is the last chance in this world not only to decide money, because the power of money is big and they are able to pay anything. They are capable, if money determines everything, so it will turn out that cities will sink, that they will not react to what is going on in nature and that we will all uglylylylylyly pay for it. And it is politics, democracy that is the only force capable of preventing the world from drowning either in blood or in disasters that we will not be able to face. That's why I'm a convinced Democrat, and I take it seriously. It's the only chance. Democracy may be imperfect, but it's the only chance. And even in this country, we're looking to find as many allies as possible among those who are willing to go through with this. And it would be wrong for us to say that we're going to count the number of democratic forces and tell each other what time it is, and that we're not actually able to reach an agreement anymore. I think it's still open in this country. And it depends on who is capable and can be a partner. This place looks like social democracy's fault today. Perhaps the blame is that in 2013, we joined the government with Andrej Babiš. So let me tell you what the meaning of what we've been doing over the years is to me. And I'll be very brief. I'll tell you in simple numbers. I'm just gonna pick some numbers. If I marry Mr. Topolánek's government, Mr. Nečas, at the time the right-wing government ruled with these names, the minimum wage went up 45 crowns. At a time when we, the Social Democrats and Andrej Babiš ruled, increased by CZK 4,850 to date. 45 crowns and 4,850 crowns. At a time when social democracy ruled, when I compare it with the right-wing government, so to make it short, wages grew six times faster at the time we ruled. This is just a few examples of policy that has always followed by the fact that what threatens to destabilize society is inequality. And not just with us. Inequality is growing in Germany, inequality is growing in the United States, inequality is a threat of instability all around us. And the policy that we did was a service of democracy in this regard. I am simply convinced that this country will be stable and democracy will have a chance in it if there are as many people as possible who feel that this country is here for them. This means, if today we are trying to make a policy in which we are pushing these issues again, we are interested in increasing wages when countries are growing, that we simply do not want to be a cheap economy that stands on cheap wages, that this is what threatens me most. It's just our one-third wage compared to our neighbors, or 60 percent, if we convert it to prices, that's just still an undignified position. [[14.40 hours]] And we want to be dignified partners in Europe. And the dignity and the feeling that we've done something about this, not just the ones upstairs, but the whole society as a whole, is a condition of political stability and the success of democracy in this country. If we can do these things, if we've been able to do this for four years in government with Andrej Babiš, we've just helped democracy in this country. If I have a feeling today and it seems to me that we are able to promote these fundamental things because people will be better able to get into sick leave and not suffer from it, you know, that we can push through things that make people's lives more dignified and that they can identify with the state, that's the fight for democracy. So I'd probably be talking about completely different topics than what you've been talking about, but I'm telling you for myself, I wouldn't support the government if I didn't still have a strong belief that we were able to do this policy that we've been doing in the past years and which, in its consequences, makes people feel like they belong in that country. I would like to answer some of the questions that have been raised here. Mr Stanjura asked what is the difference between the foreign policy of the SPD and the Communist Party. That's a good question. He's no different at all. That is why the Communist Party has no influence and does not determine, is not part of the government, and actually should not be there even the SPD. Even the Communists directly said they wouldn't be in that government because they didn't match their foreign policy. That's exactly what was said. Yeah, there's really no difference. But that is why none of these parties participate in what I think is part of the broad democratic consensus that this government is still holding. That's the answer to the question. Exactly, neither of them has any say in this. And it's clear, and even both sides have made it clear. And they won't talk into it. I guarantee you that here. I'm chairman of the Foreign Committee and I'm glad to have someone to talk to here in this House and in the government because they're the principles we want to hold. That's one of the reasons. But that is also related to the democratic agreement in this country. If I had the feeling that she could not be held, that this is not true in these fundamental matters, I would not be voting today. And if we hadn't agreed to leave, I wouldn't have voted. Because I believe that what divides this country is about these policies, social, economic. And if we want to defend democracy, we have to do this policy. I am not sure, friends, many of you who are performing here today, that you would be willing to do this policy with us. If there's a chance today, I'll keep doing it. And it's not against democracy. It's an effort to find partners for her. And sometimes, as I said in the opening story, we find those partners where one wonders and feels like he wants a better one, with a better history, with a cleaner history and a less burdened criminal prosecution. That's not very happy. But I warn you, all around us, in the world around us, governments do not arise lightly and they are often complex governments and burdened with various burdens. It's not easy to rule in Europe today. Government coalitions are not easily formed that hold the fundamental stability and consensus of society. Even in the United States of America - you can see today, the country is very hard to divide. So it's not easy to pass today. It's not easy to survive for democracy today. And I'm telling you, I'm here in this House because I want democracy to survive this difficult time, and I'm looking for an ally for it. Even the opposition, I think, is our ally. And I understand today that you've provoked this debate here. I guess I'd actually do it on your side, too, I admit it, but you know me. So I'm not surprised. But yet I appeal to you. We still have, I hope, different angles, but we're trying to get most people to identify with her in this country. And I believe that the government will be able to go that way. If we decided to vote, I'd raise my hand for her. But since we agreed to leave, so be it. I'm just saying, for me, this is a reason to continue, despite what has fallen here and despite the doubts you have. I understand them, yet I think there are important things that need to be continued. And I still see the best chance here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u107	I thank the honourable Member. Your speech raised six factual points at the moment. As First Member of the Němcová, then Mr Skopeček. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. My factual point relates to the incoherence of what my honourable colleague Lubomír Zaorálek said here. If, at first, he spoke of the values to create democracy and then replaced these values with the material aspect, where he numbered the material achievements of their government in particular, and the value thing that we stand for today, which we are talking about, which affects democracy completely in its roots, that is, Prime Minister criminally prosecuted, you are avoiding by arch. You've learned, you're speaking in such a mode of speaking, when you touch it a little bit, but you jump to the government's achievements immediately. It reminds me of this communist self-criticism where they always implied something wasn't working out, but then they explained to us what the next five years would be like. And I completely disagree with you in your conclusion that democracy has disturbed and threatened us not only because it has succeeded in some material aspects better than it was five or ten years ago. And speaking of your appeals to past governments, I'm also very happy with the way you forget about your own governments. How is it that since you are already talking about what the Czech society has been through, what wages were and when there were other parameters, how do you not touch, for example, what the Social Democrats should be most interested in? How was unemployment 10% during your reign when Mr Škromach was Minister of Labour and Social Affairs? Why don't you sign up here, why don't you talk about it? Well, that's not a good time for you right now, so you're putting everything you can on our noses here just to take away the smoke mist, including shooting in the Spanish Parliament.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u109	Thank you and now please Mr Skopeček, Mr Blažek will prepare himself with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u110	I'm gonna react in the same way. You have defended democracy here, but it has quickly turned into a defense of the socialist measures that you have had a chance to implement here over the last few years. So let me just remind you, in addition to that list of achievements, that we are 110th in the world with regard to tax burdens, 116th in the world in terms of government regulations. You simply think that we can subsidize this prosperity, by regulation, by redistribution, by increasing people's well-being. But no wealth has ever been created by subsidies or redistribution, my colleague. Just as you mentioned low wages here, and you think it's gonna fix administrative increases in minimum wages. I, exceptionally, agree with a fellow Pirate, who mentioned a large amount of capital drain on dividends. This is due to the fact that we have very weak domestic capital, that we do not help our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to become large international corporations and those dividends remain here. And what will your government do? Your government is not able, it is not willing to increase spending flats, but last week it will approve a record incentive of CZK half a billion to BMW, a company that has a larger turnover than the Czech budget. So that's the responsible economic policy. That's really nice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u111	Thank you. Please Mr Blažek, Mr Jurečka will be prepared with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u112	So do I, in response to my colleague, the Zaorálek. He's a great talker. But if he says he supports this government for these and for those reasons, he has every right. But he'd have to do it. But there's no support here. I've got Mr. Babiš here, so we can translate freely what's happening here today. The smaller party has teamed up with the election winner, I admit it, to get the ministerial seats, but if there's a problem, we don't want it to be the one who took us into that coalition and allowed us to figure it out for himself. And we're gonna keep the chairs, and the train's moving on. So that we understand each other, there is no government support today. You leave. That's a whole other thing. But you could say that. And may this coalition of heaven be gracious, because I don't think that's how trust arises between partners. That's for better or worse. If the socde imagines it's only for good, I wish you good luck and with Andrej Babiš separately. And maybe one more thing. A colleague of the Zaorálek said there was money and everything can be bought. So I remembered -- he likes those historical statements -- so let's just think about how it's beautifully bizarre. When Danton was once accused and then sentenced to death, one of the things they blamed him for was corruption. And then he said a beautiful sentence, beautifully bizarre. He said, and that's about the money, he said, "I'm definitely not a corrupter, because there's no price to buy Danton." So think about how beautifully bizarre it is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u113	Thank you. And please Mr Jurečka, Mr Peksa will then be prepared with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u114	Thank you. I also have to add some of my observations on Mr Zaorálek's speech. Because besides being rhetorical, it was a very good speech, but more or less, when I take the beginning and the end, they logically contradict each other. For one thing, the democracy you have talked about so much has logical values that cannot only be measured by economic parameters. Even members of your party, who are the oldest here, fought for the previous regime, whether within the Charter or so, and were persecuted and fought for values such as morality, freedom of speech, humanism, and so on. Just economically incalculable values. And they also form the basic skeleton of a democratically and freely functioning society in this state. And I feel like you're just able to come in here, say how you fight for these things, how important they are, you're gonna mix it up with the basic economic needs that are also important, and I'm not questioning them, but you're gonna say that you wouldn't support the government, but you're actually gonna leave. You wouldn't support her - you said you wouldn't support her if your basic democratic principles hadn't been fulfilled by the government, and then you'd actually leave heroically. So I think that every MP here is on his own. It is in my opinion that voting on trust or distrust of government is really the key decision of each of us's personal conscience and freedom. So let's also remember where we're going to put this bar here. And I just think that here in four years it will be possible and perhaps socially acceptable, if we go further, that we may actually have here, as the President sometimes says, a prime minister who needs to be appointed and the decree will be handed over to him in prison during a visit. I'm saying this absurdly, but we're moving on here in this way. These are things that have been unthinkable in the past. This is where the members of the government ended up for JUDr. Or for misquoting part of the thesis, but suddenly we're getting somewhere else. And unfortunately, you, as Social Democrats, are very bright about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u115	Thank you. I would like to ask the speakers not to address them directly even if they respond to the previous speakers. I ask Mr Peksa to make a point of fact. Then, Mr. Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u116	Thank you for the floor. Mr Zaorálek, through Mr President. I'll try to make this brief. You mentioned here that it's not good for politics to revolve around how much money anybody has. You have a unique opportunity to stay in the hall and vote for the distrust of the government, which is run by one of the richest Čech. He's using this government in the way he uses it. It is for him an instrument for drawing European subsidies, which further expands his assets. So you have the opportunity to show that you really care about democracy, and you can feel good that you have done something against the pan-European preferences of social democracy, as we are now seeing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u117	Thank you, too. I ask Mr Petr Fiala, Vice-President, and Mrs Mračková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u118	I also respond to Mr Zaorálek. I wasn't quite sure where he was headed with that historic excursion from Spain in 1981. But I'd like to talk to him about it. When he mentioned it, I'll just remind you that the decisive moment, and that is generally considered in literature, was the decisive moment to suppress the coup by the Spanish King Juan Carlos I, who put on a military uniform and, as the supreme commander, ordered the soldiers to return to the barracks and apply to democracy and the democratic constitution and called for compliance with the constitution. And I think it's important. Because, Mr Zaorálek, through Mr President, the measure of democracy and democracy is not what at least the wage will be increased or what social measures are being taken. The minimum wage can increase even the undemocratic regime. But the measure of democracy is what it takes to protect the institutions of a democratic state, to the extent that they are protected by constitutional institutions and to the extent that every constitutional function is protected. In my speech, I spoke about why we believe that the protection of the constitutional position of the Prime Minister is at stake at the moment and that he is threatened by the personal problems and conflicts of interest that the current Prime Minister has. And for the sake of democracy, it is undoubtedly to protect the constitutional position of the Prime Minister. And here I must say, Mr President, that your party, the Czech Social Democratic Party, is failing to protect the constitutional function of the Prime Minister. We respect that, but please don't turn around here with democracy when you don't contribute too much to it with this attitude.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u119	Thank you for keeping time. And Mrs Mračková, please prepare Mr. Zaorálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u120	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I thought I would not perform. However, I do dare to respond, through Mr President, to Mr Skopeček and to his comment on responsible economic policy and on the incentive that the government has concluded this week, or approved, with the arrival of BMW in the Czech Republic. I'm not surprised that something like this might come out of your mouth. I would like to stress that if BMW comes to the Czech Republic, it will invest CZK 2.55 billion on this technology centre, on the development of vehicles and assistance systems. It's the first high-tech in the Karlovy Vary Region. On the other hand, I think that the government is very responsible in the incentive act, to whom it gives the incentive and not, as it was in the past, that someone has received an incentive on the assembly facilities, which we already have many here in our Republic. I think this is the way to find those research centers. Because, unfortunately, in terms of research, development and innovation, our region and I think that the whole Czech Republic has a lot to catch up on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u121	Thank you, too. At this point, we still have three factual points. First Mr. Zaorálek. After that, Mr Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u122	Thank you. If I had more time, but at least this. I would like to respond to Mr. Fiala. The feeling that I was most terrified of the reputation of the Prime Minister's institution was the fall of Petr Nečas' government. At the time I had a really strong feeling of damage to the prestige of this function. And as for the others, just briefly. Speaking of values. Look, in a social democracy, maybe I can talk about it, because I know something about it, the key issue for the Social Democrats in that age of 100 years ago was really something not so material. It was an election right. That was the strongest issue of social democracy, the right to vote. Because, you understand, you have different amounts of money and those who have more affect society more. But the right, everyone, every individual, even the poor. They all had the right to speak. That was what actually matched the odds. That suddenly someone could vote fully as a citizen. So voting rights were the biggest topic. But the other thing has something to do with how you know. That's because you're taking the results of the election seriously. Because the elections are the basis of democracy. Do you know how dangerous it is not to respect election results? And we are here in this country in a normal conflict. Any one of you who's a political scientist has to know that. The conflict is a legitimate result of the election, when someone, even accused and prosecuted, got 30 percent. And even in recent municipal elections, the result has been repeated. So whether we like it or not, we'd like to... How come all of us here who aren't being prosecuted weren't better? How come we who don't have that burden didn't beat him? Well, it's wrong somewhere. I'm sorry to hear that, too. But unfortunately, it happened. And this is a legitimate result of the election. We're just in conflict. The result is in conflict with the fact that the person concerned is entitled to be Prime Minister and at the same time carries this burden here. And you'll find this conflict in Israel, you'll find it in the Crowns, even in the United States, there's a president under investigation today who may be at risk of impeachment. This is not just a conflict in the Czech Republic, it is also in other countries of the world. And it's about taking this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u123	Mr. Ambassador, the time has ended for a point of fact. Good afternoon, we'll continue with the actual notes. Jan Skopeček, Helena Langšádlová, Pavel Blažek, Miroslav Kalousek, Miroslava Němcová, Marek Výborný. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u124	Thank you very much. I will respond to the Governor through the President. Well, that's the difference between us and economic policy. We have 110th highest taxes in the world, 116th most complex government regulation, and it is clear that if there is no incentive to come here to do business in such an environment. So we have to collect taxes from our little businessmen. We're gonna have to take the 500 million first from someone, from our little home-grown businessmen, so we can give it to a wealthy foreign firm to even go into business here. Because why would she come here to do business when we have 110th highest taxes? Why would she come here to do business? We have 116. most complex government regulation and in the Labour Code, in its overregulation we are even worse off? Our recipe is different. We want to simplify the tax environment, reduce taxes, so that foreign investors come here without us giving them foreign incentives. Without having to take the money with small and medium-sized entrepreneurs that we want them to grow up to be a company like BMW. But if we tax them and move them straight to these rich companies, we'll never make them big international successful corporations. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u125	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Helena Langšádlová, with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u126	Thank you for the floor. I am convinced that this money should not have been given to a large corporation. And now that the government has such a need to give away, I firmly believe that our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs should have gotten it, because this will create competitiveness, thus giving us a diversified market, thereby ensuring the stability of our economy and thereby ensuring our prosperity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u127	I also thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Pavel Blažek, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u128	Thank you for the floor. Once again, I will respond to my colleague, the Zaorálek. There was that mention of Prime Minister Nečas again, and how it shook the level of that office. I've been talking very peacefully about media waves, like I don't like them. Now, I beg you, what was the shock on that trust? Well, Mr. Šlachta's false press conference, Mr. Ištvan and Mr. Komár, where they told lies all over the world about the government having gold safes, dollars, and I don't know what else to do. And then I get that. And that's what they all copied, of course, what they had left. The second aspect of why I wouldn't compare it is that if memory doesn't deceive me, after about three or four days, Petr Nečas resigned from his post. So this doesn't really add up either, this comparison. But I'm just asking you, since you've already left the authorities in power that are spreading lies completely consciously, and then it's written down, at least don't set them as an example. That's exactly it. These organs caused the media wave. Five years later, they were unable to prove one thing in court in this matter, and they were the ones who caused it. But it was a media wave again. And I was talking about not liking the media waves, not subject to them. Even though I was never Prime Minister, I wasn't in any media wave myself, but in small ripples I enjoyed sometimes, that's true. And I don't like it, I know how to do it. But these speeches just support it. The state authorities just made something up, everyone believed it, yes, then it shook confidence in this office, but that's how it was. That wasn't a very good quote, virtually. a good analogy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u129	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u130	Thank you. Again, a response to Mr Zaorálek, who said that he felt an intense threat to the constitutional function of the Prime Minister at the time of Petr Nečas. I was one of the ministers of Nečasův' government, and I was one of those who recommended the resignation. And it must be said that Petr Nečas also considered it and gave the resignation. Unlike Prime Minister Babiš. And it is necessary to add that the things that Petr Nečas was accused of at that time were, by their intensity and social dangers, incomparably smaller than what Prime Minister Babiš was guilty of and prosecuted. We might as well have felt threatened by the prime minister's constitutional function during Grossův's affair, even though there were no criminal charges. What did they do then, Mr Zaorálek, through the President, Ministers and Members of the KDU-ČSL? KDU-ČSL ministers submitted a resignation and KDU-ČSL MEPs voted in favour of distrust of the government. Gross was held by the Communists back then, so it wasn't successful, but they still voted in favour of the government's distrust and were only willing to continue on the coalition floor plan when the Prime Minister switched. Which, in the end, social democracy had to do. I'm not saying that Paroubek's exchange for Gross was lucky, but at that point, it wasn't about that person or that person. At that moment it was about principles and precisely about protecting the constitutional function of Prime Minister. That's exactly what you're resigning to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u131	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And one more point in fact by Mr Marek the Výborný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u132	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Through you to a colleague of the Zaorálek. I have great respect for you, or maybe I had great respect for you as an expert in foreign policy. True, after your statements on our foreign missions, it's a bit of a challenge, my respect. However, I think you know very well what our constitutional system is. There is a proportional electoral system to the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. I wasn't running for Andrej Babiš. There was an ANO 2011 movement running here. And your statement that we don't respect the election results here is really not based on the truth! Of course, from the beginning we say that we respect the winner, that's the YES movement. It also had an indisputable right to name it, to suggest the Prime Minister. However, your statement here makes 77 members of the ANO mute herd. And I don't want to be their lawyer, but from where I'm standing, it's not really a mute herd that's pulling behind my backside. It's really not like that. So talking about the lack of respect for election results does not correspond to the constitutional system of the Czech Republic. We respect the outcome of the election, we say it repeatedly. And it is only the responsibility of the YES movement whether it is the movement of one man or is able to generate other personalities into the leadership of the Czech government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u133	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And we continue the debate with Mr Pavel Žáček's speech, Mr Mikuláš Peksa will be prepared. Sorry, sorry, colleague. I'm sorry. I know there's a priority right here for Mr. Michálek's President of the Pirates Club. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u134	Thank you for the floor. Dear government, dear colleagues, some of you may remember that the last time I performed here, when the government's confidence was discussed, I pointed out here how the Prime Minister uses his media. Today I would like to show why we are against this government. We have run for elections with the fact that we want a free, educated and digitally connected society, modernization of the state, and the coalition YES, the ČSSD with the support of the KSČM is definitely not able to achieve this. I would like to call this coalition, the main problem in this coalition is that it has a communist style of governance. When we look at the newspapers they publish, they even have the same color, the Young Front tonight, they print like the Red Right. When we look at how the government's programming statement is being fulfilled, it looks like a plan was being implemented during the Communist regime and pretended to be fulfilled at 120 percent. How the government praises itself that everything is going well. And thirdly, the Prime Minister has a rather rhetorical style of Milouš Jakeš. Now, I'd like to discuss this in more detail. I think that the plan needs to focus on the most fundamental things our citizens are burning. According to the opinion poll, these are questions of excessive bureaucracy, corruption, the state of roads and rents and housing prices. Coincidentally, it's a matter where YES doesn't rule for one year, but it's been with its ministers for five years. They had five years to show what they could accomplish in these matters. Unfortunately, when we look at the results of the government, and I read them very carefully, it's this 50-page presentation, so many so-called. the results are underwork, or it is simply a redistribution of money in the style that pensions have increased, minimum wages have increased - well, it should be taken for granted that when the economy grows, pensions and minimum wages are increasing. That the whole society benefits from this prosperity, that shouldn't be something the government boasts about. But this country needs steps to be taken. And that's not what's happening here. And that's why we're falling behind, and just like in communism, the country has been economically and morally lagging behind, so now it's going to continue as it is during the reign of Andrej Babiš. And probably another three years. [[15.10 hours]] So let's look at these three points. Firstly, it is a bureaucracy that citizens consider to be a problem. Of course, one way to deal with it is digitalization. We here have heard from the government that there will be a table that will be a dashboard, where the government's results will be, how many kilometers of highways the Minister has built, how well the various plans are being fulfilled, promises in the electoral statement. However, if we look at the overview of the results as they are in this brochure, I think we have to cry about the earnings. For example, in my tax section. Of course, entrepreneurs rightly criticize the fact that they have to pay taxes and levies in three different places. YES has ruled the ministry for five years, it's been almost five years, and you know what's written in the government's results when it comes to the digitization in tax collection? So beware, the fundamental result is that simplifying and electronizing the tax system is the priority of the Ministry of Finance. This is the result presented by this government at an official press conference, and it still hangs on its website. The second result is that even after the appointment of the government a project team was established and in autumn the Ministry will present the chosen option. So these are the results that this government has on digitization and simplification. Another example of great digitalisation results. The Prime Minister held a press conference with the Estonian Prime Minister, who is his friend, and they took pictures together. Well, isn't that an amazing digitalization result, taking a picture with the Estonian Prime Minister? Probably the Prime Minister showed him - I don't see him here, he probably ran off somewhere... [[There he is! - Prime Minister Babiš is standing next to the government's desks talking to the minister.]] So the Prime Minister probably showed the Estonian Prime Minister his famous paper diary as a result of a five-year period of digitization in the Czech Republic. I think that if someone came forward with such results in Agrofert before the Prime Minister that he had been given a press conference within five years and wrote in a press release that it was his priority, the Prime Minister would have thrown him out of Agrofert immediately. So in this respect, I fear that the government has not fulfilled the expectations of citizens that it will run the state as a company, and the results are not even present here. Now I will get to the second priority that citizens have given in this survey, and that is the fight against corruption. Of course, everyone is very amused that the Prime Minister himself, a criminally prosecuted person who still has yet another scandal of obstruction of investigation, has appointed himself as the leader of the Government Council for the fight against corruption. Well, of course, that's a guarantee that corruption will finally be fought here. I looked at a substantial document that relates to the conflict of interest of Andrej Babiš. It's this very important graph. [[It shows a graph called Agrofert subsidy.]] This chart shows everyone how subsidies to Agrofert are increased. The source is Agrofert's annual reports. In 2011, the subsidies to Agrofert, to the group, were 0.6 billion. CZK and subsequently the Prime Minister's involvement in politics is growing miraculously, so the Prime Minister receives 2 billion in 2017. CZK a year. 2 billion. CZK per year, which could go to public services and by which the Prime Minister enriches himself at the expense of all other taxpayers. Then I think it's a complete mockery of the fight against corruption. And I can say more and more examples of how this government is fighting corruption, so-called. When we submitted and drafted a proposal for the publication of ČEZ's contracts, there were many, many times and many times blocked by MEPs. We passed the nomination law, once again the government rejected it with its government machine here, submitted a modified proposal. In fact, the last time on the committee this week, the ANO Members have rejected our proposal to limit the abuse of supervisory councils as political traders. Well, I don't blame them, of course. If I had a teammate in Prague's structures, such as Mrs Plesníková from YES, who took or took 220 thousand. CZK a month - 220 thousand. On a monthly basis, this is more than the Prime Minister, Mrs.Plesníková took the view that she was a deputy mayor and had a supervisory board at Prague Gas, which is a company owned by the capital Prague, and they put her there to have a trading company - so I wouldn't really want the supervisory board in state companies to be regulated either. There are a number of examples. There is no state budget. We have a police raid at the Department of Regional Development. It's true that the government did one thing, set up an auction system. Okay. As one thing in that 50-page document as a result, I find that very poor. When we look at what the government says as its results in that official document in the Ministry of the Interior, the fight against corruption. I will read literally: We have implemented some austerity and optimization measures. - These are the concrete results of the government, which it presents itself in its materials in the area of the fight against corruption, in the area of the Ministry of Justice there is nothing at all. The third part concerns, now that we have an evaluation, how we implement the road construction plan in transport. Transport is another ministry where YES has been sitting for almost five years. What are the results presented by the government in its materials? Well, you'd expect that when they've been there for five years, they've already got the projects ready, and every month they finish a few dozen kilometers of roads. Unfortunately, in the information material prepared by the government, there is not a single word about how many roads have been completed, opened, put into use. The only thing there is that they have begun work on new sections of highways and bypasses of 28 kilometers. So it's just the start of the job. In fact, after five years, I think it's a little small in the case of motorways. Well, the last part concerns rents and housing prices. This is an issue which is particularly sensitive to our seniors, for young families with children, because there is a dramatic rise in housing prices. In Prague, for example, 35 percent is spoken of. The prices of housing in Prague are rising by 35 percent. Well, what does YES promise us, which has been inhabited by the Ministry of Regional Development for five years? The particular result? That there's work going on in the new construction law. So that's the actual result. I'm afraid we're really not far off here to pat ourselves on the back like it was under communism, how the plan is going. In fact, the progress is completely miserable. Once again, we have tried to address this issue, we have put forward a concrete proposal to reduce the real estate tax, we have initiated the digitalisation of the construction process, but unfortunately the response is very lukewarm. I will discuss this particular example of the acceleration of the construction process, how it works, how we will achieve that our construction offices will work quickly, and thus the market will be able to respond more quickly to demand and increase housing prices. So five years ago, there was a study at the Ministry of Regional Development that could be digitized. Digitize, right? Then for five years, the study was dusted, and sometime before the holidays, the Ministry of Regional Development commissioned that the study should be updated, but we are promised that the study should be updated by the end of November. So these are the concrete results that this government has in reducing housing prices, so that we can address the housing crisis. That a study is being prepared or updated. But, of course, citizens are waiting for real results, i.e. to show how the time of the construction process, which is within the state administration, has accelerated. But you can never show this because you don't measure that time at all. So that's basic management error. You don't watch how long the construction process takes, and therefore you can't control it centrally or in any way. [[15.20 hours]] As regards the construction of flats in the state gesture, the only concrete result is that 400 new nursing apartments will be created. I only have two comments about that. The fact that something is created is not the result - again. And the fact that there are some poor 30 apartments coming out on the edge will certainly not help our seniors to the extent of how many seniors who would need a nursing home, we have. So even in this area, where ANO has had its minister for five years, there is no progress. After all, political scientist Kamil Švec said it quite appropriately today on ČT1 that the government has no tangible results. All he does is rely on his marketers, rely on propaganda, and, as the Prime Minister is traditional, he projects his mistakes into others, claiming that there is propaganda against him, that there is a conspiracy against him, that there is a campaign against him, and so on. I took some handkerchiefs here so the Prime Minister could wipe his tears in his whining. [[Inadmissible votes from members of the YES. Challenges for Mr. Michalek to behave himself. Punching the benches.]] I have now assessed the implementation of the plan by YES, which is at a very miserable level. Basically, this shows a complete managerial failure, when Andrej Babiš, as Prime Minister, is unable to treat his ministers in the way that he does in Agrofert does not meet the obligations they have given citizens at all. I think it's a major managerial failure. I think it will lead to our state falling behind. I've shown it to a number of resorts where YES has ruled for five years. And I think that's pretty unfair to our kids. [[Restlessness in the middle of the hall.]] We should surrender the Czech Republic in a condition in which the state will be better than the one in which we took it over. [[Inadmissible votes in the ranks of members of the YES.]] We are currently handing them over to a state that is backwards. And I think that next to that, just the icing on the cake is all the lies, frauds, membership in KSČ, cooperation with the StB, support of communists to the government, media manipulation, conflict of interest and family story of Andrej Babiš. There's never been anything like this in history. Even, through the President, Prime Minister, your friend, former Prime Minister Gross, it was only about one million crowns, and you have much larger sums. Well, you said you wouldn't resign and we'd have to beat you in the election. Of course, we accept this challenge. [[The scream of laughter from members of the YES.]] When I told Mayor Krnáčová three years ago that we would beat her in the election, she laughed. And I'm happy for you, enjoy it, laugh, you've got three more years to go. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u135	That was Mr. Jakub Michálek. With priority law now three factual points. First Helena Válková, then David Kasal, then Patrik Nacher. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u136	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I don't speak easily after such a speech. I'm definitely not going to this rhetoric. I will not insult anyone, through you, Mr Vice-President. I'm not going to measure Grosse's imaginary guilt, Netime's, Babiš. That's why there are law enforcement agencies here, if we're playing the state of law, it seems to me that the pirát are playing it, playing it more or less successfully. I'd just like to point out that there are three levels of trouble mixed very nicely here. I've already talked about this with my colleagues at the club. It's a plane ethical, legal and political. And so every time we hear someone, I see how much of that one file in that cocktail mixes the arguments that he can use right now. Vice-President, through you, Mr Vice-President, Fiala said something about protection, and that is why I came forward, a constitutional officer. The role of the Prime Minister is certainly indisputably in the area of the most important functions. I did not understand, however, I guess I am not legally competent, whether he meant any specific violation of the Constitution or whether it was more in favour of politics and ethics within the cocktail. I'd like him to answer me, or if someone on his side would answer me. I just have a point of fact. I think we'll all really laugh after we make the final balance. I hope to laugh when I see how much of this revolutionary enthusiasm remains for the pirát at the end of the election. So far, I haven't had any concrete results except the shouting at those who have been here for a long time. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u137	The time has ended for a factual remark. Now Mr David Kasal also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u138	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will also address my predecessor to President Michálek. Every time he starts his speech, he has to get somebody a little dirty to compare him to something. I'm gonna be good. I told my colleague Kopřiv I didn't understand him. Well, I'm gonna fix it now. To me, his speech seemed like a pioneer or an S.S.M. asset. That's one point. And second point. Of course, you have the right to criticize. But they say the pirát are the new wind. So I'm curious because I'm curious when your new mayor will resign from the Board of Directors of the VZP he was on yesterday. And you don't accumulate functions?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u139	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now my colleague Patrik Nacher also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, I thought I wasn't performing tonight. [[Laughter and jollyness in the YES benches.]] That's what I said at the DA's office, but I have to, because my colleague Michálek here named Prague, and I follow the motto that governs the Mariáš player that he pays for. So I'll answer my colleague, the Válková, who so far the pirát have shown that they haven't done anything. We've been there for three weeks. So what did they do? Cumulation of functions, newsstands and communication with the opposition, these are the three topics that are most common. So the accumulation of functions. As has already been said, some of them accumulate, there is a deputy mayor on the board, one mayor, as I learned, and now I don't know from what pirate, so I don't get accused of being so-called small accumulation. [[Jollyness and applause in the ranks of members of the YES.]] I'd like to ask you about the microphone here, what's the accumulation of medium, what's the accumulation of large. I understand, of course. It's hard to combine that election vow and then make a coalition with someone. Trafics. I will. We started in 2014 with three released committee chairmen plus control, now there are nine, plus control, which is ten. Even the Vice-President of the Committee is released for the first time in history after 1989. It's never been here before. Yes, I hear the arguments that all pirates will be paid this way from the Magistrate and will not be on the Supervisory Boards. However, this also does not apply because it was a promise, and that is the third point, communication with the opposition, that the opposition will get space in these audit bodies, which are supervisory boards in urban companies. It doesn't even apply there, because according to my information, it's crossed out again. This means that the opposition will probably gain nothing at all. We talked about the position in the committees for four hours. The ratio was supposed to be 5:4, eventually offered a coalition change of 6:3. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I'm sorry, I didn't make it all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u141	The time for a factual remark has ended. Mr Ferjenčík also made a point of fact. Then Mr Jurečka, Výborný, Feranec - also factual remarks. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u142	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond briefly to the previous speakers. One. My colleague Michálek didn't insult anyone. [[Laughter in the ranks of members of the YES.]] He's just stating the facts. There is a need to distinguish between facts and insults. The fact that these facts are offensive is not the fault of my colleague Michálek. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] Mr. Mayor Hřib will resign from the Supervisory Board in a very short time. [[A stormy blast of laughter in the ranks of members of the YES.]] We need to hand over the agenda in some way. [[Once again, jolly among the members of the YES.]] I think the moment your people accumulated these functions six months after the election, it's a little hypocritical after two weeks. [[15.30 hours]] And thirdly, as far as the coalition is concerned, it is simply the trade fairs mentioned by a colleague of Michálek that have been implemented in Prague through the supervisory councils of the city companies, where the representatives of the ANO movement have taken multiple times as many times as those committee chairmen or the release of representatives. So let's wait for that result, whether there's an increase in finance from the city or saving money, and don't compare numbers that can't be compared here. Mrs. Plesníková just took 220 grand, and if she was sitting there, she'd be taking 80. So you deliberately put the loose ones in there to take 220. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u143	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka, also with a point of fact. We still have five factual points to make. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u144	Thank you. I have a request. Can't you express yourself here without the sneaking, the mockery and the personal insults? Couldn't we stay on the de facto plane that we've been holding around for quite some time today? And now the factual comment on Mrs Válková, through Mr President. Please, nice when it sounds from the mouth of the former Minister of Justice that Mr. Michálek here is talking about it in his speech, and you're commenting that he's playing here, and then you said we're playing the state of law. So me and KDU-ČSL do not want to play any legal state. We really want to fill it here, the state of law. Those are very dangerous words that you say here as the former Minister of Justice, and the moment it's accompanied by one statement from your President, the current Prime Minister, who said that anyone here in the Czech Republic can order any case against anyone, I don't know what those people who are watching us today and who are watching us in general are actually supposed to think about it. Please, let's respect what we're saying here, what these words mean to make these people feel like there's some kind of trust in us as in politics and in the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u145	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague Výborný with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u146	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Two things. I'll follow up on my colleague, Jurečka. Indeed, from the mouth of the former Minister of Justice, Mrs Válková through the Vice-President, to say that you are here - and it doesn't matter if my colleague Michálek said it, or if someone from the KSČM says it, we simply live in a state of law. We can't question this here with the words that there's some kind of rule of law game. If we'd agreed to this, I believe it was just a slip or a bad wording, because the Minister of Justice, who sits here on my right hand, would probably be running chills if something like that were true here. And the second thing, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I don't want to question the right to say anything from here to the counter, just please, let's not solve the problems of the village of Prague, because I have information that one building council lasted 16 hours until 7 a.m. I'd hate to see this happen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u147	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Milan Feranec, also with a factual remark, will be prepared by Mr David Kasal also for a factual remark, then by Mrs Válková. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just responding to my colleague Michálek. It has been said several times, and it is such a pirate hit - a clicking budget. I'll be glad if they can help us with the government budget. I hope it's not the way you've been in Mariánské Lázně, where you've been running this town for five years, and there's no way to click for anything. I've been trying to figure out what level the clicking budget for the 350 million budget is being drawn up. You didn't make it in five years! But thank you for every good advice from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u149	Thank you, my colleague Feranc, for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Kasal's point of view. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u150	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I am only to Mr Ferjenčík through Mr President. That's not where any agenda is transmitted. That's where we decide once a month in the working group. And I had fun with my colleague Hřib, and I had no sign of him wanting to step down. Well, check your information first!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u151	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Helena Válková's factual comment. A colleague of Třešňák and Plzák will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u152	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I don't know if I should cry or laugh. I think everyone probably knows what I said. I'm assuming a certain minimum standards of intelligence or trying to understand that. And it is those who have spoken and who have asked me what I mean, that I know that the bar is not only met, but also exceeded. So I'll take that as another questioning of what we're going to say is turned against us. Of course, what I meant was that when someone gets out and argues and uses certain specific things that put the Prime Minister's very unfavorable in the light, I suspect that he follows not only the ethical standards, but sometimes the legal limits. And we actually live here in a state of law. I would be the last one not to respect those legal principles, and regardless of whether it's the former minister or the person who's a lawyer, and I'm deliberately looking to the right now, because I assume that from the left, everyone has understood that. But the game of the rule of law is all the more dangerous, because you are doing everything you can to challenge these very principles of the rule of law by acting out - today what I have experienced. That's what I meant!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u153	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Třešňák, so far the final point of fact. I hope my colleague Žáček gets the floor. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u154	I will take the liberty of responding to Mr Feranc through Mr President. I have the impression that someone here has opened this topic a year ago, and I have also responded to it through factual and I will answer it again. The cities of the size of Mariánské Lázně really use the tools provided by the Ministry of the Interior, are available and need not buy them dearly. The fact that official software tools used by the Ministry of the Interior and able to deliver to municipalities are thus imperfect is not really our fault. However, there are also nonprofits such as Open Cities, and we will be happy to use the new CityVizor software tool now, for example, and I believe that the detail of the clicking budget will be there in the future. However, if we want to move away from the topic and deal with Mariánské Lázně and other municipalities, we can talk about the village of Prameny, which has about 80 inhabitants, calmly, we can be here even longer. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u155	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, then, Mr Pavel žáček, Mr Mikuláš Peksa will be prepared. Sorry! The secretary of finance has signed up with priority rights, so I'm gonna ask you to wait one more time. Mrs. Alena Schillerová, Minister of Finance, has the floor. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also thought I wouldn't perform today, but I just have to. Mr. Chairman Michálek, I have considered our relationships to be correct until now, but what you have just shown here has certainly not been correct, and I will immediately lead you out of error. I will speak primarily for the Ministry of Finance. It wasn't the first time that the pirate party would find material on the government's website, the Ministry of Finance, and I would speak for what I know, as far as I'm concerned, and it would use it completely unseriously simply in some interpretation that isn't based on the truth. And that has happened now, Mr President. It happened that you used the material we're putting together in the government, we made it up ourselves, a government agent for digitization came with him, that we'd watch the government's statement, and which department wants, so he can add his homework. Me, for example, because I like to keep track, I say we don't do it twice, so I added the homework. That's no detailed material, no manual that shows what's all worked out on these tasks. First, the material is informative, it monitors the performance in some kind of time horizons and, of course, its expansion will continue to develop. If I inform about the Ministry of Finance projects, I will do so in the form of press conferences, or website of the Ministry of Finance, or on my networks. And now for Project My Taxes. It's my absolute priority, my tax project. It consists of three basic parts. The first is the legislative part, we're not talking about that right now. You were talking about digitizing. The second is the new ADIS, or ENDIS, which is being worked on, but it's running on a longer track, because to recompete the system we've had in the vendor lock for 30 years, I wouldn't really like that, and we're gonna do it. Before you get - I hope it never gets - to power, we'll have it done. [[Fun and applause in the ranks of YES 2011.]] [[15.40 hours]] For me, the absolute top priority is the online financial office. I've said that many times, and I'm working on it. On 13 December 2017, I was appointed Minister of Finance for the first time, I immediately assembled a project team in January. The project team works, I get to interpret the results regularly. I'm gonna start in 2018 - I'm not gonna do press conferences just to beat up empty straw here, it's just not my style. I'll do the press conference in a moment, and it'll be at the beginning of 2018, where I'll present the clear functionality and outputs of the project team. In less than a year we have achieved that we have mapped the processes and selected one of the three most suitable options because it is not very easy because here we have ADIS, on ADIS there is a vendor lock, the key controls IBM, we are dealing with them, of course it is very complicated and I will not burden you, and we basically had to decide which way to go. We chose this trip sometime in September of this year and now we are preparing an open tender, where I put the working deadline until the end of January 2018. I reckon it'll be sooner. This portal, for your information, will allow you to connect with the citizen portal, simple secure login, user-friendly fulfillment of obligations, will be divided into an authentic user, an unauthentic user, we use tax information box, which the Financial Administration has had for years now. We'll use the so-called electronic submission and I have here detailed a number of functions that are prepared, processed and executed. Please, whenever you turn to me, I will give you information, it would not be the first time you've approached me, eventually we'll meet with Mr Ferjenčík next week if I'm not mistaken to show him the clicking budget and explain to him how the Treasury actually works, which cost 7 billion, and I'm glad to have it, and it bothers me when some funds may not be involved in it because we see the cash flow of the state every day. And one more thing: the Treasury was behind the only digital project of the previous government, and that's EET. I'll remind you we built it in six months. Six months. And in public administration, digital projects are basically not easy. We had a whole series of criminal announcements, inspection committees of the Chamber of Deputies, and I don't know everything. And the system works, nothing, no criminal consequences were drawn from it, completely seamlessly and watchdogs control us from the left to the right. Please inform correctly next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u157	Thank you, Minister of Finance, and I have three factual points. First Mr Michálek, then Stanjura and Mr Jurečka. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u158	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I certainly would not dare to mislead this famous Chamber of Deputies. I just visited only vlada.cz and on the front page in category Important documents I clicked Government results December 2017 - June 2018. This gave me this document, a press conference on government results, and it said exactly what the Minister here basically said that the result was that she said it was her priority, that they had set up a project team and that they had started working on the tender. As a result, I imagine something that is useful to the citizens that is delivered to them, just as when you buy an appliance in the store, like a refrigerator, the result is that you have it at home and it works, and not that someone promises to make it for you. Plans, wishes and results need to be distinguished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u159	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the de facto comment by the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u160	The Minister of Finance's performance was a classic smoke mist. Look what kind of program we have here, and we're debating the Ministry of Finance's plans for my taxes. I'm not here to reproduce the trivial presentation of this project on the budget committee, and I'm very moderate in terms when I put it that way. But we're not here to assess the Ministry of Finance's plans, and I have to say that President Michálek is really a villain because he's reading materials that are on vlada.cz, and he's still using them. That is truly unacceptable, Madam Secretary. And I must say that the government must be commended that it has come up with such a brilliant management procedure. They control themselves. I thought it was normal for me to check my homework. At every council, every council has a standard point of resolution control, a task check, but here we had to wait, and after five years the ANO government figured out that they would control themselves, and read it. Even the opposition wouldn't tear down the government like they did, and then they're surprised we're quoting from it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u161	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Marián Jurečka's factual comment and further prepares for the factual remark of Ondřej Profant. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u162	I'm sorry, but since Secretary Schillerová said here an important piece of information that isn't entirely true that the Ministry of Finance did the only digital project of the then government in the past period, and that was the EET, I'll look at the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, where it's 13. 6. 2018 press release, i.e. This is from a period when I was no longer a minister, and the press release concerns projects that I have been preparing in the Ministry for two years as an instrument to help farmers significantly improve their activities in terms of soil protection against erosion and water resources improvement. And in that press release, it's said that so-called. the anti-erosion calculator has won a second prize in a prestigious competition, even a jury award that appreciates the very actions that concern the state's contribution to help solve climate change so that these things are comfortable, and this application, which the Ministry of Agriculture has implemented and financed through its Research Institute for Melioration and Soil Protection, is precisely a digital application with such awards. So please let's just be objective about this. I know sometimes the minister feels that what he's been doing is, let's say, immersed and seeing things in the resort, but there were certainly other ministries, maybe even other ministers who have been in that government for five years, would say that they also had their applications, I think the Ministry of Environment was also appreciated in this competition, so it was definitely not the only digital act of this or the previous government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u163	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Profant's point of view. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u164	Madam Secretary of Finance, through Mr President, you have managed to say in one speech that the problem is that you suffer from vendor lock-in to IBM in the case of ADIS, and you have continued to do so by making an EET that is the deepening of this vendor lock-in. So you're admitting yourself here that you're building that vendor lock-in! Not to mention the seven billion dollars on a cash register that can't even show a budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u165	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now, indeed, my colleague Pavel Žáček. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u166	Thank you for the floor. Patience brings roses, I hope. I would try to get away from those smoke screens, from those ground freezers in November Central Europe and from that fog to the sunny Crimea. I'd like to get back to the subject of why we're here. I would like to talk, and of course I do not want to repeat what has already been said here, even as regards the independence and impartiality of the activities of our police, security risks and such things. Do not worry, especially colleagues on the committee, I will not repeat what we said yesterday on the committee, although the point was not approved, on the contrary, I would like to show one link that has not yet been said here, which, of course, relates to the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister, his investigation and investigation of his family members. [[15.50 hours]] The public, the media and we are wondering why and how Andrej Babiš Jr. found himself in Crimea, whether it was a security risk or not, even though he was accompanied by an employee or bodyguard of Agrofert after at least part of his trip. In February 2014, Crimea was annexed to the Russian Federation, as we all know, as part of the start of the conflict in eastern Ukraine in the intensifications of the Russian plan to build a new part of the country called Novorusko. In response to this aggression, sanctions have been adopted against the Russian Federation, which we participate in as the Czech Republic, which we have joined, of course. United Nations Resolution on the territorial integrity of Ukraine has been adopted. In addition, the Russian Federation and the Russian Federation are also involved in the implementation of the Crimean regime in the Russian Federation. Right on Crimea. I am adding, and this is to the security aspects, that the authority behind the border situation is the border guard or the border army, which is part of the Federal Security Service, known by the FSB, which is the main agent of the Russian Federation's internal security. And for the sake of clarity and some kind of political perspective, I will add that only representatives of the KSČM have travelled to Crimea to legitimize the annexation, as far as is known. Communist MEP Kohlíček and Senator Doubrava. And, of course, they were designated by the Ukrainian authorities as having committed illegal entry into Crimea into the occupied territory of Ukraine. That is why the question is: Why did Mr. Babiš Jr. not head west from Switzerland, for example? For example, to France, where he could visit one of Mr. Babiš's restaurants. Why did he head east? I think that the question, and it has already been suggested here in the morning or in the morning, is the Schengen area and the legal situation in the Schengen area. The Schengen area is an area which ensures passage, free movement of persons, with an agreement being concluded that it is possible to move within the Schengen area without checks at its own borders or internal borders. On the other hand, there is a condition that in these states it is possible to arrest, arrest, present at any time a person wanted in any participating State on the basis of a European arrest warrant issued by a court. And here I just want to mention that Switzerland is in Schengen, but it is not a member of the EU. Thus, if the Police of the Czech Republic had announced for example some of the persons searching for it, it would not be a problem to hold him within the EU, which is not true in countries outside the Schengen area, which is for example. Russia or Ukraine. In the case of Switzerland and a Swiss citizen, this would probably be possible on the basis of international legal assistance, on the basis of bilateral agreements, if they are concluded, which, of course, is a more complex route. It takes a long time, and it would have to be based on the matter of reciprocity. However, if this is a subsidy fraud, of course, the Swiss Federation, but neither Ukraine nor Russia is involved. Here may be the answer to why Crimea was chosen for that journey. And in conclusion, I'd like to ask. I'm sure we'll find out how it really was someday. But I'm also worried about the answer, because it can be confirmed that it's not just speculation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u167	I thank Mr Pavel Žáček. Now, Mr. Mikuláš Peksa. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, there are several fundamental facts that are not just a question of morality, but of the fundamental characteristics of security and the rule of law. The criminally prosecuted prime minister does not only deal regularly with the government's agenda and the promotion of our national interests abroad, but devotes an immense amount of time to repeated attempts to explain his case. It throws money and strong words at him to ensure popularity. And instead of answering the criticism and connection in his own party and being replaced by a colleague, we are witnessing a performance where a surgeon from a minute-long interview seen in a report determines schizophrenia and swears what conspiracy is against his leader and owner. We're not just playing for the Czech Republic here. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is one of 28 politicians who have the right to veto the EU's crucial decision. Well, what interests he defends there. So far, it's just yours. The Czech Republic is opposed to limiting subsidies because it is the Prime Minister's holding company. A massive conflict of interest currently under investigation by the European Commission. So, as a result, we have a person in the key position of the Czech Republic and the EU, who intends to hold himself in power at all costs, is very easily blackmailable and criminally prosecuted. And here it is the extremely personal problem of Andrej Babiš, who is responsible for all the individual points himself and himself, because no conspirators drew funding for him, no journalists change his expression indefinitely and do not create ever new versions of how it was all. So if the Prime Minister really cares about the good of our and strong negotiating position in Europe, then it is really time to leave a place for someone else, because the legal state of the Czech Republic should not be called into question in this way, as it is happening in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u169	That was Mr. Mikuláš Peksa. Now, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. A colleague Martin Kupka will be ready. [[Noise in the hall.]] I will ask the House for more peace of mind for the performance. If you're having other discussions, please be in the foyer. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Unlike everyone else who said that, I was convinced that I would talk. Unfortunately, after that day-to-day or all-afternoon discussion, what I'm going to say is different from what I originally wanted. I haven't been in politics that long, but I'm sitting in the Chamber of Deputies for the second term, so I know there's no speech to convince the other party of anything. It's all useless. No one's gonna get convinced. Everyone has an opinion. Sometimes his own, mostly his political group's opinion. What was going on here is really very interesting. And finally, it was surprising for me that the Social Democrat is telling us that the greatest danger for our country is that oligarchs and wealthy people will take its lead, and that is why they have concluded a coalition with them. It's a beautiful fight against something when I join in where there's profit and money. You know, that life is weird. As a doctor, I could talk about a lot of medical stuff. Here, as a father, and as a grandfather, I could talk about children. I enjoyed mine when my kid and my wife were two years old, watching him, taking pictures and sending me a picture. Remember what we can do with him. I'm the one who's done everything. I don't want to talk about it. I want to talk about another matter. I want to talk about the fact that we are the Chamber of Deputies and we have some responsibility. Responsibility to your constituents, to your conscience, to your children. History is strange. Surely it is possible that state officials will say "I have brought you peace. " Or "the president accepted all my proposals." But history doesn't ask. History knows. And that history will know how we voted today. He'll know about each and every one of us right away. And he'll know who voted wrong. All of you, consider it. I know I'm calling the deaf forest, but consider your responsibility to yourself, your conscience, your constituents and your children. History really doesn't ask. He's gonna hand over the bill to all of us one day. Let us try to behave, honourable Members, as women and men, to balance this genderically and to be brave once. I'll try to set an example. I will vote in favour of distrusting this government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u171	I thank Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Now, Mr Martin Kupka, enrolled in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u172	Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, at the start of today's meeting, the Prime Minister tried to walk away from the problem. The essence of this is, from the beginning, the incompatibility of the prosecution and the performance of the Prime Minister's duties. A number of other speakers have clearly described how this is incompatible, where the problem arises. And it also turns out that, instead of addressing the major problems of the Czech Republic, we are debating again today whether it is possible for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to perform a person who is also a criminally prosecuted person. Social democracy, which hypocritically calls for plan B, is also trying to mask the problem, but at the same time puts the opposition right when it draws attention to it, and very loudly that the Prime Minister really finds himself in serious conflict and has serious personal problems of the criminal prosecution. The role of politics is to look forward to the future. So if nothing significant happens today and there is no change, what will it mean for the Czech Republic and the Czech Government in the coming months? Well, undoubtedly, with every new discovery and every new shift in the Capi Nest criminal case, the government's shock and government crisis will reappear. I would also venture to say that with every appointment of an important representative of the Police of the Czech Republic, or even of the Police President, or even with the appointment of prosecutors, the question will be reopened because the unbearable conflict of interest, the incompatibility of the criminally prosecuted person and the execution of a member of the government is simply reflected in all these steps. So I fear that social democracy is condemned to this and condemns the Czech Republic to fulfill the hidden plan P, or over and over again. But that is not the perspective we should wish for and which would help the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u173	Thank you. At this point, it was the last one to speak in a proper debate on this point. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in the show. A point of fact, Mr Jurečka. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u174	Thank you, I'll be brief. I just want to ask - because now Minister Hamáček is missing, who asked me after my speech when I asked those questions, some more details, so if he or the Prime Minister will still be able to answer some questions. I also realized one more thing. Perhaps now is the time to ask, perhaps ideally, Prime Minister Babiš. When I read part of the 2014 ANO 2011 Code of Ethics, point 10 states: The representative against whom the prosecution is initiated will resign immediately to the elected mandate, to his position in the movement and to the membership of the movement. What happened to reduce the original ideas and solid principles of the ANO movement from 2014, that this code of ethics and that part of it changed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u175	Thank you. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. Let me ask you one more time, someone is interested in speaking in a proper debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word by the plaintiffs. It's not like that. Therefore, I will recall that pursuant to § 85 para. 1 and 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shall be put to the Government by name on a motion for distrust. A majority of all Members must be approved in order to adopt a resolution declaring distrust to the Government. We have duly elected verifiers who are already in place, Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mrs Jana Černochová. First, we will proceed according to § 74 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to draw up the name of the Member from whom the vote will take place in alphabetical order. Tickets with the names of Members have already been checked. A moment of patience, we'll draw a name. [[Members of the ČSSD are leaving the O.R.]] That name is Juříček Pavel. He's excused. I think there's a possibility of a double procedure. Either we continue with the following, but if no one objects, I will draw a new name. It'll be easier for everyone. [[Screams from the O.R. No!]] No? Okay, so if Mr. Juříček is 76th, then Adam Kalous follows. Mr. Adam Kalous will be the first to be questioned. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I'm gonna ask you once more to calm down in the hall! It is recalled that according to § 74 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be drawn up by the Member in question, shall say 'for a proposal' or 'against a proposal'. If he abstains, he will say, "I am abstaining." A different speech by the Member shall be regarded as a delay in voting. I would ask that each of the Members that has been called forward say their position loud enough so that I can repeat it to the screen recording here on the microphone. We will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies is expressing distrust to the Government'. Now I will summon you, and I beg you to speak. I am opening the vote and I will ask Mr Adam Kalous to stand up and express his position. Adam Kalous: Against the proposal. Miroslav Kalousek: For a proposal. Vít Kaňkovský: Proposition. David Kasal: Against the proposal. Václav Klaus: For a proposal. Jiří Kobza: Proposition. Jiří Kohoutek: For a proposal. Tomáš Kohoutek: Against the proposal. Lukáš Kolářík: For a proposal. Martin Kolovratník: Against the proposal. Vladimír Koníček is excused. František Kopřiva: For a proposal. Barbora Kořanová: Against the proposal. Radek Koten: For a proposal. Josef Kott: Against the design. Pavel Kováčik: Against the proposal. [[16.10 hours]] Věra Kovářová: Proposition. Lenka Kozlová: For a proposal. Robert králíček: Against the proposal. Karel Krejza: For a proposal. Jana Krutáková: For a proposal. Roman Kubíček: Against the proposal. Jan Kubík: Against the proposal. Martin Kupka: Proposition. Jaroslav Kytýr: Against the proposal. Helena Langšádlová: Proposition. Jana Levová: For a proposal. Jan Lipavský: For a proposal. Leo Luzar: Against the proposal. Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková: For design. Taťána malý: Against the proposal. Přemysl Mališ: Against the proposal. Tomáš Martínek: For a proposal. Jaroslav Martinů: For a proposal. Karla Maříková: For a proposal. Jiří Mašek: Against the proposal. Květa Matušovská: Against the design. Eva Matyášová: Against the proposal. Ilona Mauritzová: Proposition. Radka Maxová: Against the proposal. Marcela Melková: Against the proposal. Jiří Mihola: Proposition. Jakub Michálek: For a proposal. Jana Mračková Vildumetzová: Against the proposal. Vojtěch Munzar: Proposition. Patrik Nacher: Against the proposal. Miroslava Němcová: For the proposal. Ivana Nevludová: Proposition. Marek Novák: Against the proposal. Monika Oborná: Against the design. Tomio Okamura: Proposition. Ladislav Okleštěk: Against the proposal. Roman Onderka: [[Not present.]] Zdeněk Ondráček: Against the proposal. Zuzana Ožanová: Against the proposal. Jana Pastuchová: Against the proposal. Petr Pávek: For a proposal. Daniel Pawlas: Against the proposal. Markéta Pekarová For a proposal. Mikuláš Peksa: For a proposal. František Petrtýl: Against the proposal. Vojtěch Pikal: For a proposal. Pavel Plzák: Against the proposal. Zdeněk Podal: For a proposal. Ivo Pojezný: Against the proposal. Ondřej Polanský: Proposition. Jan Pošvář: Proposition. Milan Pour: Against the proposal. David Pražák: Against the proposal. Ondřej Profant: Proposition. Věra Procházková: Against the proposal. Pavel Pustějovskýějovský: Against the proposal. Karel Rais: Against the proposal. Vít Rakušan: Proposition. Michal Ratiborský: Against the proposal. Jan Richter: Against the proposal. Olga Richterová: Proposition. Miloslav Rozner: For a proposal. Radek Rozvoral: For the proposal. Miloslava Rutová: Against the proposal. Pavel Růžička: Against the proposal. Jan Řehounek: He is excused. Petr Sadovský: Against the proposal. Jan Schiller: Against the proposal. Karel Schwarzenberg: For a proposal. Roman present. Jan Skopeček: For a proposal. Antonín Staněk: absent. Pavel Staněk: Against the proposal. Stanjura: Proposition. Jiří Strýček: Against the proposal. Bohuslav Svoboda: Pro pro proposition. Lucie Šafránková: For a proposal. Karla Šlechtová: Against the proposal. Lubomír Španěl: For the proposal. Julius Against Špičák proposal. David Štolpa: Against the proposal. Dan Ťok: Against the proposal. Petr Třešňák: For a proposal. Karel Tureček: Against the proposal. František Vácha: For a proposal. Kateřina Valachová: Absent. Vlastimil Válek: For a proposal. Jiří Valenta: Against the proposal. Helena Válková: Against the proposal. Petr Venhoda: Against the proposal. Jiří Ventruba: For a proposal. Ondřej Veselý: Not present. Radovan Vích: For the proposal. Adam Vojtěch: Against the proposal. Jan Volný: Against the proposal. Lubomír Volný: For the proposal. Radek Vondráček: Against the proposal. Ivo Vondrák: Against the proposal. Miloslava Vostrá: Against the proposal. Petr Vrána: Against the proposal. Veronika Vrecionová: For a proposal. Marek Výborný: Proposition. Tomáš Vymazal: Pro pro pro proposition. Rostislav Vyzula: Against the proposal. Jan Zahradník: For a proposal. Lubomír Zaorálek: Not present. Radek Zlesák: Against the proposal. Pavel Žáček: For a proposal. Ivan Adamec: Proposition. Věra Adámková: Against the proposal. Hana Aulická Jírovcová: Against the proposal. Andrej Babiš: Against the proposal. Andrea Babišová: Against the proposal. Margita Balaštíková: Against the proposal. Dana Balcarová: Proposition. Lukáš Bartoň: Proposition. Ivan Bartoš: Proposition. Jan Bartošek: For a proposal. [[16.20 hours]] Jan Bauer: Proposition. Martin Baxa: Proposition. Jiří Běhounek: Not present. Petr Beitl: For a proposal. Josef Bělica: Against the proposal. Pavel Bělobrádek: For a proposal. Marek Benda: Proposition. Ondřej Benešík: For a proposal. Stanislav Berkovec: Against the proposal. Jan Birke: Not present. Stanislav Blaha: For a proposal. Jiří Bláha: Against the proposal. Pavel Blažek: For a proposal. Marian Bojko: Proposition. Richard Brabec: Against the proposal. Milan Brázdil: Against the proposal. Andrea Brzobohatá: Against the proposal. Jaroslav Bžoch: Against the proposal. Lukáš Černohorský: For the proposal. Jana Černochová: For a proposal. Alexander Černý: Against the proposal. Monika Červíčková: Against the design. Jan Čižinský: For a proposal. Jiří Dolejš: Against the proposal. Dolínek Petr: Not present. Dostálová Klára: Against the proposal. Lenka Dražilová: Against the proposal. Jaroslav Dvořák: For a proposal. František Elfmark: For the proposal. Jaroslav Faltýnek: Against the proposal. Kamal Farhan: Against the proposal. Jan Farský: Proposition. Milan Feranec: Against the proposal. Dominik Feri: Proposition. Mikuláš Ferjenčík: For a proposal. Petr Fiala: Proposition. Radim Fiala: Proposition. Eva Fialová: Against the proposal. Vojtěch Filip: Against the proposal. Jaroslav Foldyna: Not present. Stanislav Fridrich: Against the proposal. Alena Gajdůšková: Absent. Petr Gazdík: For a proposal. Pavla Golasowská: For a proposal. Miroslav Grebeníček: Against the proposal. Stanislav Grospič: Against the proposal. Josef Hájek: Against the design. Jan Hamáček: Not present. Tomáš Hanzel: Absent. Milan Hnilička: Against the proposal. Jaroslav Holík: For a proposal. Radek Holomčík: For a proposal. Jan Hrnčíř: For a proposal. Tereza Hyťhová: For a proposal. Chovanec Excuse me, absent. Jan Chvojka: Absent. Ivan Jáč: Against the proposal. Jakub Janda: For the proposal. Miloslav Janulík: Against the proposal. Monika Jarošová: Proposition. Pavel Jelínek: For a proposal. Martin Jiránek: For the proposal. Against Juchelka proposal. Stanislav Juránek: For a proposal. Marian Jurečka: For a proposal. And the absent Pavel Juříček, who started the vote. At this point, we've dealt with the vote, if I'm not mistaken. I'm asking the verifier if everything's okay. That's right. The vote is therefore over. I am still asking the plenary whether all Members present have been read, or if there are any doubts about the course of the vote. If this is not the case, I will ask the verifier to set the time they will need to determine the results.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u176	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u177	Excellent. I am interrupting the meeting until 16.35 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the adjourned 23rd meeting. I'll ask you to settle in your seats. I'm gonna ask for some peace in the hall and I'm gonna ask for the performance of the designated verifiers. Mrs Černochová will give us the results of the vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. A total of 182 Members took part in the vote, 92 Members voted in favour of the proposal, 90 Members voted against the proposal. Nobody's staying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-23-ps2017-023-01-001-001.u180	Thank you, Madame. I therefore note that the Chamber of Deputies has not adopted the motion for a resolution. Madame Members, we have discussed the programme set up by the 23rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am ending with this. In conclusion, they've probably brought me an earring now. So, co-worker, check your ear, or both, to see if someone's missing an earring, or they're here on my desk. [[Laughing and restlessness in the Chamber]] [[Applause, whistles, applause.]] On Monday, 3 December, there will be a conference at the meeting hall under the auspices of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomáš Hanzl. So I'm going to ask you to clean up all the materials from your desks, or they will also be shredded. Thank you all and have a good weekend.
