ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-005-019.u1	19. Government bill amending Act No. 311/2013 Coll., on the transfer of ownership to units and group family houses of some housing cooperatives and on the amendment of certain laws /house printing 56/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Richard Brabec will present the proposal. I'll ask for peace in the hall so that you can transfer your discussions to the foyer. I'm looking at my right side, I'd hate to name it. Senator, if there's any way we can end this discussion in the lobby. Thank you. Let the others settle down. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-005-019.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I hope there is someone left, and if I do so, I will transfer it to the lobby. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me give you a point concerning the Ministry of Regional Development, Mrs Dostálová, but because of her illness and thanks to your helpfulness, I can make this proposal. This is a bill amending Act No. 311/2013 Coll., on the transfer of ownership to units and group family houses of some housing cooperatives. The draft amendment was initiated by representatives of cooperative associations. They referred to the problems that arose in connection with the adoption of new legislation in 2013, when Law No. 311/2013 Sb. did not recall the creation of a community of owners of units in those cases where the proportion of housing cooperatives fell below one half before the law was effective, but did not fall below one quarter. The conditions for the creation of a community of owners of units were changed in the context of the drafting of the bill in the Chamber of Deputies, when the amendment contained in the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development was adopted at the meeting on 11 June 2013 and according to which the compulsory establishment of the community of owners of units was linked to the reduction of the share of housing cooperatives in the common parts of the house instead of the originally established one quarter to one half. The purpose of the draft amendment of the Act is therefore to amend the provisions on deferred establishment and creation of the community of owners of units in the case of those housing cooperatives to which this special law applies. This is the housing cooperative of the former type of folk housing cooperative, construction housing cooperative, if these cooperatives performed on the date 1. 7. 2000 home administration under the Housing Property Act, i.e. cases where this cooperative issued declarations of division of houses into units before 1. 7. 2000. At present, register courts reject the registrations of the communities based on the incentive of these cooperatives by analogy under Section 24 of the Law in those cases where the share of the housing cooperative fell before the adoption of Law No. 311/2013 Sb. less than one half, but not less than one quarter. In these cases, to which Law No. 311/2013 Sb. expressly does not remember, require courts pursuant to § 1200 para. 1 of the Civil Code, which applies supportively, the consent of all owners. This is, however, an unattainable concession in houses with an absolute majority of the properties transferred to the property before the application of Act No. 311/2013 Sb. These are often larger panel houses. The houses cannot thus form a community, and the cadastral authorities are blocking any transfers of units, which in the case of these cooperatives, which often have an obligation to transfer flats directly by law, is an entirely undesirable condition. The aim of the proposed adjustment is therefore: to remove the substantive error of the existing wording in relation to § 24 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5 in such a way as to make it clear that the deferred establishment and establishment of the community of owners of the units is to take place after the reduction of the co-ownership share of the housing cooperative in the common parts of the house under one half in accordance with the procedure laid down in Section 24; furthermore, to apply the rules under Section 24 also to those housing cooperatives where the co-ownership share in the common parts of the house has decreased to less than one half in the period prior to the date of the entry into force of the Civil Code and this special law; to clearly determine for what number of votes the owners of the units the assembly is acting pursuant to Section 24 (2) of the Act. 3 eligible for action and quorum. If the proposed legislation had not been adopted, the proposed legislation would not have been approved, the housing cooperative would have remained more than one quarter but less than one half in the so-called "half'. legal vacuum and legal uncertainty, which would make it difficult for them to carry out their duties if not prevented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-005-019.u3	Thank you, Minister. I would like the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Martin Kupka, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-005-019.u4	Mr President, honourable members of the government, my dear colleagues, I would also like to confirm that this government bill really removes the legislative error that has occurred and fills in the legislative vacuum in which the housing cooperative found itself. The way they do it is very simple and I assume that in this form they will really be able to remove the errors that at this time have been limited by housing cooperatives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-005-019.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I ask if anyone is interested in speaking in the general debate on this point. It's not like that. I am ending the general debate. I ask whether there is an interest in the final words by the Minister or the rapporteur. Since they just finished talking, it's not. There has not been any proposal for repayment or rejection, so we will deal with the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I see no one, so we can proceed to the vote. I've already summoned colleagues from the lobby. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 87. 166 Members are registered, for 145, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a further committee. Does anyone else have a motion on the commandment of another committee besides constitutional law? I don't see anyone. We will therefore vote on the proposal from the Organising Committee, on ordering this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 88. 167 Members are registered, for 146, against no one. This proposal was adopted. There has been no proposal in the debate to shorten or extend the time limit for discussion, which we have dealt with on this point. I thank you and end the first reading of this law. I'm opening another item on the agenda for this meeting, it's item number
