ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u1	35. The proposal of Members of Vít Rakušan, Petr Gazdík, Jan Farský, Věra Kovářová, Jana Krutáková and Petr Pávek to issue a law amending Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on Landscape Planning and Construction Regulations (Construction Act), as amended /German Press 123/ - First Reading The Government's position on this press has been delivered to you as House Press 123/1. At the rapporteur's table is already the representative of the appellants, Mr Vít Rakušan, whom I ask to present to us the proposal submitted for the proposer. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u2	Mr President, honourable members and members of the Government of the Czech Republic, my fellow Member -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u3	I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another bill here. I ask you to calm down so that the plaintiff has the opportunity to present to you what he proposes in the appropriate atmosphere and conditions. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Therefore, colleagues, let me present to you the proposal of the Members mentioned, which concerns Act No. 183/2006 Sb. Let me start with a general introduction. We all know that the Czech Republic is located at the time of the boom, that we are at a time when there is a huge interest not only in property development companies but also in individuals, individuals, to build, when we are currently dealing with a large housing crisis in the Czech Republic, when people are hard to access accessible housing. I think that, in the context of these two stated assumptions, we should try to enable citizens in the Czech Republic to set such conditions to actually build, implement it, virtually. Waiting for various building permits took place as quickly as possible. When I looked at the argument that fell during the last amendment of Act No. 183/2006 Sb., by the way he is valid only from January this year, so just this was argued. Let us establish a construction law in such a way that it can be built quickly in the Czech Republic. Now we have this law in force and it turns out that it has fulfilled its purpose in many of its points, but there are also places of the last amendment that just don't work and that are really causing big problems in trying to implement its construction plan. The problematic point we see is Section 96 of the Act. In the last amendment, it was said that a binding position on territorial management must be submitted by the regional planning department of the municipality with extended scope. Perhaps you yourself have noticed what practical problems - and let us really talk about the practical problems in cities and municipalities - have caused this regulation. Probably the most raging case, which has been presented many times in the media, is the municipality of Černošice, where the applicant for the construction procedure is currently waiting 55 weeks for the binding opinion of the local planning authority. Take that you want to build a garage and wait 55 weeks for the Authority to give you an opinion on whether or not your intention is in line with the zoning plan. However, they are not just Cernošice, they are e.g. Rokycany, I communicated lively with the management of the town of Polička and I must say that these views are echoed from all corners of our republic and are supported by a clear opinion of the Association of Local Authorities, but also of the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic. Our proposal is very simple, namely that in the above section 96 in paragraph 1 we give the sentence that the competent construction office is designated for the issue, thereby releasing it completely. 7 where it is said that "the binding position which has been brought into conflict with the territorial development policy or the planning documentation issued after the binding opinion has been issued shall be replaced by an official new binding opinion'. So this paragraph would be completely deleted. [[10.00 hours]] It is a simple proposal and we realise that it is not complex. We do not have the ambition to submit at this stage a comprehensive amendment to the construction law, which has been amended to 1. 1. 2018, respectively. has become effective. We have an ambition to remove one functional provision from this law, which means an unprecedented wait for citizens in the Czech Republic to express their views. What is another big problem that may not have been realized by the petitioners? At present, we do not have enough officials in the municipalities with extended scope to issue these opinions. By the way, the qualification requirement for such a worker is three years' experience. As the mayor of Cologne, I am quite responsible for telling you that not one person has applied to this place to qualify for the law. We are here in a situation where we are trying to create laws that will help people in the Czech Republic. And I am not saying that the whole amendment to the construction law was wrong, but we draw attention to one of its objectively dysfunctional parts, we speak from municipal practice, which makes life difficult for people in the Czech Republic. By the way, in its negative opinion, the government states that compliance with the zoning plan would be assessed by an official of the construction office concerned that there might be a threat of a lack of practice in the region. But that's not true. After all, an official from the municipalities of extended scope does not know better than an official from the construction office at the point of issue of the permit whether or not the construction is intended in accordance with the zoning plan. Let us trust the officials who work in the region, stick to the principle of subsidiarity, make decisions as close as possible to the people, and fulfill our commitments that we have given in our electoral programmes for the long term, that is to say, we will try to reduce the bureaucratic burden on citizens of the Czech Republic. We are increasing it by this regulation. New officials will be recruited, perhaps even hundreds of new officials, slowing down the entire process of issuing building permits, and certainly not guaranteeing a municipality's supervision with extended scope of greater precision and precision of decision-making in the area of spatial planning. [[There is a lot of noise in the hall, MEPs are standing in the alleys in the noisy and talking loudly, there are several negotiating ministers standing at the government bench.]] For the next one we object -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u5	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment, because the conditions for your performance are not good. I also ask the members of the Government to hold their meetings outside the Chamber because they are disturbing other Members. All others, I ask that the debates be conducted either quietly or not in the Chamber, because we cannot really listen here to what the appellant says. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u6	Thank you, too. Next, we pointed out in our proposal that territorial plans are a general regulation, which simply falls within the self-governing competence of the municipality. At the moment when the compliance with the zoning plan will be assessed by the superior body, respectively. a community with extended scope, its regional planning officer, so it could even be said that we are interfering with the self-governing activities of the municipalities in question. The government spoke of presenting and presenting with another major amendment to the construction law. There's a lot of talk about this: After all, the law only applies from 1. 1. Why change it so fast? Let's let it work for a while in this text, and then let's make a decision. But that's a pointless attitude, ladies and gentlemen. If we simply find that the law does not work on one of its points after half a year, let us drop that point and let us help citizens in the Czech Republic to implement their construction projects more quickly and allow them to have their housing available. Let's do the best we can. The government's reply even stated that a comprehensive amendment should come in 2020. So here I am asking the Minister directly whether we will really leave the citizens in this condition, which is objectively bad. Take a look at the opinions of the Association of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, Association of Local Authorities. Unisono says that this situation is unsustainable, unacceptable. And it doesn't matter that it's only been in effect for a few months. So let's drop the clause. The construction law will otherwise be functional in the version in which it is functional from 1. 1. 2018. And if the government's ambition is to come up with a more complex amendment to the construction law, well, let it take its time, it deals with the material in detail, and I'm sure there are things to improve, but one dysfunctional paragraph that we propose to release, let us release now. That is why I am asking you to at least let the debate on our proposal into second reading. It is also argued that there is not enough rope to other legal provisions. Well, if we're going to point this out specifically, which wasn't in the report, where the rope isn't, I'm going to swear here that we're going to fix it by the second reading. But the material is so important for municipalities in the Czech Republic that non-release to second reading means some contempt for what our citizens, municipalities and cities in the Czech Republic are currently objectively suffering. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u7	Thank you. The rapporteur for the first reading is Mr Milan Pour. I ask him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u8	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear Members, dear Members, allow me to present today a report on the bill amending Act No. 183/2006 Sb., on zoning and construction regulations, as amended. This is House press number 123, the applicants of which are members of the STAN. Suggestors propose an amendment to the provisions of Section 96b of the Construction Act. This provision shall include a list of cases where a binding opinion of the zoning authority is to be issued as a basis for a decision or other enforcement in the proceedings. In the current version of the Act, this list is broad, where it applies to all decisions and actions pursuant to Part III, Part 4, and Section 5, Sections 126, Section 127 and Section 129, or under a special law, where it depends on the assessment of the amendment by such a decision or by an act initiated in the territory. The appellants propose to narrow this list only to cases where it is a joint authorisation pursuant to § 94j or a decision under a special law if the special construction office is responsible for issuing it. The need for this proposal is justified by possible interference with the municipal authority's own competence and by the extension of the administrative procedure and the burden on the local planning authorities. Furthermore, the appellants state that it is possible to assume that administrative proceedings may be paralyzed and possible subsequent recovery of the damage caused by maladministration. According to the appellants, the issue of a binding opinion by the local planning authority is justified only in cases of a common territorial and building procedure, where the construction authority responsible for conducting the proceedings will be a special construction office which does not have the territorial planning documentation available and lacks knowledge of the territory in a broader context. Furthermore, the appellants propose to completely repeal the provisions of Paragraph 96 (b). Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 7 of the construction law, according to which the regional planning authority which issued the opinion is obliged to replace such an opinion ex officio, i.e. without a proposal in the event of a conflict with the territorial development policy or planning documentation, unless a decision or other act on which that opinion has been issued as a basis has already been issued. [[10.10 hours]] Of course, the Government's position is still to be stated. The Government's position, which has been delivered to you as House Press 123/1, is disagreeable. The government states that the adjustment is only effective from 1. 1. 2018 and a renewed change would mean a procedure contrary to the principle of legal certainty and to the principle of good governance. According to the Government, the proposed adjustment may jeopardise the fulfilment of the objectives and tasks of territorial planning, i.e. creating assumptions for the construction and sustainable development of the territory. In addition, the Government states that the annulment of Article 107 (3) (c) TFEU does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 7 Paragraph 96b of the Construction Act could lead to a situation where any amendment of a binding position which would be contrary to the territorial development policy or planning documentation would be possible only in the appeal procedure. The government states that the position of the municipality as a decisive body, e.g. the acquisition of territorial planning documents, the establishment of a built-up territory or as a party to a territorial procedure is not affected in any way. According to the Government, the explanatory memorandum is flat and does not contain a sufficient analysis of the expected economic and financial scope of the proposed adjustment. According to the government, designers are passing away the negative effects of the proposal by reducing the coordination of the intention in the territory and the risk of a inconsistent process of the construction offices. The Government also draws attention to the legislative technical shortcomings of the proposal. Now I would also like to draw attention to the important issue, which is that at present, under House press 76, an amendment to the Act on Acceleration of Transport Infrastructure, an amendment to Mr Kolovratník's fellow Member, number 822, is tabled proposing an extension of the list of cases where the binding position of the zoning authorities is not issued. This amendment also proposes repealing paragraph 7 of the provision in question, as my previous speaker has said about it, i.e. It was presented here by the drafter of the novel. This is therefore a solution to the same issue. This should be stressed that it is the same issue, so we are talking about one thing in two cases. That is why I propose to reject this press at first reading, as we will be discussing this issue and, in part, it is already being discussed in House press number 76. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u9	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. Mrs Kovářová and Mr Kupka are enrolled in the general debate. But with priority rights, Mrs. Dostálová is signed in, which I will now give her the floor. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that we are really trying to resolve these matters. Of course, we are also sitting with the mayor, we are also aware of that, and it has been specifically called here that the lack of officials has really put pressure on us within the bound positions. On the other hand, there is a need to go back to the meaning of issuing binding opinions, because it was given in a slightly different way. The main task of issuing a binding opinion is to fulfil the objective set out in Article 18 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 the construction law, which is the coordination of the use of the territory. In fact, after the amendment to the construction law, a number of construction offices are able to place constructions when a joint decision is issued. (?) Here we come again to the debate: We have a construction law which is a procedural law, but in addition the construction law in the Czech Republic affects 46 affected authorities, etc. Among them are so-called. four special construction offices. And what basically is involved in all this coordination? The point is, when it was decided to speed up the building permit and it was called. One joint management, but someone has to make sure that this is coordinated in that territory. Because today is the situation - I'll give you specific examples. For example, if the Ministry of Transport had issued a common permit on the motorway with a positive opinion from the zoning authority and the municipal construction office would have placed an agricultural area on the same area, because it would not need a coordinating position on the land planning, that is exactly what would have happened. That is why I appeal too much here to understand these efforts, but we have indeed tried, with Mr Kolovratník's participation, to prepare an amendment to the 48th, i.e. to speed up constructions that actually deal with this in accordance with the Ministry of Regional Development. We are making a change in the law of construction, but please, as prepared today by this proposal from Mr Rakušan, please do not, because the proposed abolition of the obligation of the zoning authorities before the first instance of the decision to replace the official binding position, which would be contrary to the territorial development policy or later issued by the territorial planning documentation, would result in any amendment to such a binding opinion being possible only in the appeal procedure. On the contrary, this would prolong the process, because, of course, the coordination would not be in that territory as such. So I'm asking too much again to really, really, it's the big buildings where it's a joint management, it's that the zoning authorities have to coordinate it. And, of course, our goal, because we were doing a random survey, was found that the most requests were related to so-called. small buildings in the context of binding opinions. That is why, in the amendment, we have approached where it is clearly specified, where it is not published, that is, where it is not really the obligation of those zoning authorities to always give it. However, once again I appeal to Mr Kolovratník's amendment being discussed with the Ministry of Regional Development, it is fully in line with legislation, unlike this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u11	Thank you. Mr Rakušan and Mr Gazdík will respond to the Minister's speech with factual comments. Mr. Rakušan has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Well, I'm glad there was one thing. Whoever listened carefully to the Minister must have heard it. The Government's argument states that we should maintain legal certainty and let this change continue because it is too rapid a change. In the second sentence, the Minister says that they themselves are preparing an amendment, from the pen of their own Member Mr Kolovratník. So here we have the first contradiction in the argument. So either we say it's okay and let it work, whether we maintain legal certainty or prepare a change, because we just claim it's wrong. That is why I say that our proposal - not just mine, but ours - could have been the bearer of the change and could have been shifted to second reading and, of course, at that second reading, we could have discussed its individual taxes and strings. Furthermore, I simply do not agree that compliance with the zoning plan is capable of being assessed only by an official in the municipality with extended scope. Madam Secretary, I am in charge of such a community. And I'll tell you, a clerk swamped with hundreds of requests won't give you a responsible opinion. The tired clerk will make bigger mistakes and bigger problems in the entire region than the civil servant at the construction office. That's just not true! That's theorizing about something you don't know from community practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u13	Thank you. Mr Gazdík and his factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know where I am going in the last few weeks, so surprisingly there is no government or smoking involved, but it is this law, the law of construction. The Minister rightly stated that the government's efforts were to speed up the construction process. Well, it didn't work out. The result is the exact opposite. The construction process now takes place weeks to months, and even years to many construction proceedings. And again, we're told that in some law on speeding up the construction of transport infrastructure, it's going to work out here. [[10.20 hours]] I would ask you, Madam Secretary, and you, my dear colleagues, to let this law pass for second reading, and if the problem is resolved, which, I confess, I do not believe very much in the law on the construction of transport infrastructure, then, of course, the law is meaningless and not necessary. Anyway, I guess we all agree that we just have a problem now. And we have two paths to him. Please, let us not just prefer the one that the Minister spoke of, because we all know that there are different things in the House, and the proposals for a comprehensive solution are very often degenerate, and in the end it is nothing. And nothing would pay for that, especially the builders, and especially the smallest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u15	Thank you. Mrs Kovářová, Mr Kupka, will now speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u16	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen. We are talking about citizens who are being extended to issue building permits. That's very true. Our amendment addresses not only the problems of citizens but also the problems of municipalities. The municipalities apply for subsidies, with the possibility that they can document the building permit later. Of course, they have an application for a building permit and they think it will be no problem to issue a building permit. But whoa, they often wait for a building permit due to this current adjustment up to a year. It is difficult for the mayor to explain why the municipality did not receive a subsidy due to the lack of building permission, the citizens blame it for inaction and consider not obtaining a building permit, respectively. subsidies for the mayor's error. The consequences of this adjustment are clear. Firstly, the municipality loses its grant, and secondly, it cannot build the infrastructure needed in its municipality, and I think that is a shame. A similar situation occurred here in the past period, if the colleagues who were here remember when an unfortunate adjustment occurred that it was not possible to place the water infrastructure or sewerage in regional roads, and that was when part of the construction of the infrastructure was completely stopped, that first, and second, the municipalities lost subsidies. The mayors and independents filed an amendment to the law - and what happened? Common sense prevailed and the House of Deputies forgot who the coalition is, who the opposition is, and that the proposal was opposition, and the House approved our proposal by a large majority, thus unblocking the construction of water and sewer infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that even in this case common sense prevails and that you will release our novel for second reading, and I beg you to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u17	Thank you. Mr Kupka is next, Mr Kolovratník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u18	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to stand up for the need to amend the construction law so that one of the new serious obstacles, i.e. the binding opinion of the zoning authority, fell out of the law, or at least significantly narrowed down. And here the Minister's mouth also sounds that it needs to be heard by the government. This makes it clear that sooner than several years from now, but if possible immediately, a narrowing of the perimeter of the buildings for which the binding position of the zoning authority is essential. Unfortunately, this serious change is negative in the amendment to the law, which has brought about all changes and positive ones. We've been pointing that out. We all say how to reduce bureaucracy. Consider that only in Central Bohemia this new obligation brought 150,000 new acts a year, new stamps, papers and duties. This has a real negative impact on the course of the construction proceedings. That's not a theory. Here it was repeatedly said that the real result of this measure is the builders who wait long months for them to start realizing their intentions. Of course, there are private persons among these builders, but there are, of course, institutions, municipalities that need to implement as quickly as possible schools, infrastructure and a number of important projects for their citizens, and they have to get a binding opinion from the local planning authority at the competent authority of the municipality with extended scope, and not only in the surroundings of Prague and Prague, but in the whole of the Czech Republic they come across the fact that the few experts for spatial planning are overwhelmed by an incredible amount of marginal, completely unnecessary submissions, because of course such a binding opinion of the local planning authority would not be necessary. Instead of improving land-use planning in the Czech Republic by allowing the few experts in municipal authorities with extended scope to pay attention to the preparation and improvement of territorial plans, they are at the moment giving really unnecessary, marginally binding opinions from local planning authorities, which in many cases only say that: if it does not rain, we will not get wet. You can't read anything significant in those opinions. I am looking forward to really succeeding in reducing this obligation significantly, and I stress that this is an experience from the territorial planning unions from all over the Czech Republic. Of course, there are places where the problem is smaller, and then there are places around Prague where the problem is extremely serious and means really delays for individual buildings even in the order of several months. And even more desperate is the situation where the builders say: but that was not necessary at all! What do we learn from the zoning authority? Unfortunately, the problem of complex laws in the Czech Republic means, for example, that we have an incredible number of government bodies. And while other countries are moving in the direction that they are gradually cutting, they are shrinking the number, so we have increased it in the recent amendment to the construction law. I think that, too, is an important reason for us to try to limit it again and really simplify this important administrative procedure. A note about who should ensure that coordination, and if it isn't actually a little crazy at this point. We're saying that the zoning authority can keep track of what's going on in the territory, and it's supposed to have it. The truth is, however, that he often wonders about the specific situation in a smaller village, because it is simply news to them. And what is important to say is that this measure may even affect the fact that, on the contrary, the moment of coordination and knowledge will disappear from the territory simply because the municipal construction office in the place will not have permanent contact with what is planned in that territory. I believe that this is also a step in this direction in the opposite direction than we should take, and we should really aim to ensure that, where a joint decision has been reached, which is a positive step in the amendment for a change, so that we do not make it difficult and make it difficult for individual investors to take the binding position of the zoning authority and leave it there, as it was in the past, to decide the municipal building office concerned, which also issued the decisions of the special building authorities of the territorial decision, so that it never fell out of the context of the decision-making, from the precise knowledge of its territory and its place. [[10.30 hours]] At the same time, we are dealing with one important problem, how to really simplify people's lives, to establish for the future the fiction of consent when the authorities do not decide on time within a specified 30 or 60-day period, which is most desirable. Here we have many examples where not only the 30-day deadline will not be fulfilled, the 60-day period will not be fulfilled, and the builders are actually waiting for the binding opinion of the zoning authorities for several months. After all, this is an important challenge for all of us to try to change that. Therefore, I also very much ask you to release this law to second reading, so that it may be possible to correct shortcomings and ties with other provisions of the construction law, but please do not kill it at this stage. It would really hurt a lot of people. It is an opportunity to remedy the situation in the Czech Republic in the construction process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u19	Thank you. Good morning. Mr Kolovratník, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u20	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I didn't want to get involved in the debate at all. I'm gonna use the saying that someone's gonna come to it blind to the violins. That's a bit of an exaggeration. I had no idea that the amendment to Act 416, which is the House press 76, and we have it firmly listed this afternoon as the third point, has such a fatal correlation with this amendment. So now I have listened very carefully and very seriously to my colleagues' arguments. I'll just put my money in it and maybe an explanation, because it's two processes that I don't want to say in other committees, here we are at first reading before the committees. As far as press 76 is concerned, the issue of the binding position of the zoning body is one of the 17 amendments in our amendment, one of the 17 points, and I have to admit it fairly and openly, there is no reason to hide it, from the point of view of our petitioners it is relatively not so important, one of the not so important ones. There are far more fundamental moments that I will explain in the afternoon. It's the interim decision, it's the special construction offices for expropriation, etc., and this was really one, forgive me for the expression, one of 17 improvements, improvement proposals. And here goes my apology as a representative of the petitioners of a fellow minister, virtually. Ministers said that, as the speedster was running, that despite the negative position on the Economic Committee, we decided to take this moment and move on. But I repeat, we have looked at this only through the optics of large line constructions, we have not addressed the issue of overcrowding of the authorities, what you colleagues are discussing here now, in this amendment. So it was a little different. We then discussed this, and I will explain it today, and I will beg you in the third reading, in agreement with the rapporteur, for a minor adjustment to the voting procedure, in the sense that we did not accept the proposal initially adopted - one sentence that refers to Section 96b of the Construction Act, if I say so correctly - despite the initially positive opinion of the Economic Committee, that we should vote against. During the last two weeks, I and the Minister have prepared a new amendment, which is based on another philosophy, and this has been said a while ago, so that we should take away the work of officials and coordination, the binding position was not needed for small-scale projects, land merger, etc., and thus the workers should have the capacity to coordinate large buildings in the territory. This is an amendment that we have drawn up together. It is ready, it is already in the system, and I will therefore report to it today in the Chamber of Press 76 and then beg both the Economic Committee and you, the House, for its acceptance. So now I don't want to play the part of the crucifixion stone of the debate, whether to reject or let go of the next reading, but I want to explain in a fair, fair and frank manner that we're already dealing with this thing, and I can say, we have a solution in another novel that's going to be discussed this afternoon. Thank you for your attention and perhaps this has been explained sufficiently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u21	Thank you. I have two factual points here, Mr Baxa and then Mr Adamec. Madam Secretary, is he claiming priority rights or de facto? So then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u22	Good morning, Mr President, dear colleagues. I originally wanted to comment briefly on what was said here in the presentation of the amendment of the construction law by my colleagues, to support the position of my colleague Rakušan. What Mr Kupka said here, and I, too, have been gathered from our relatively large building office about the fact that the increase in administration is really huge and that the way in which this obligation to coordinate territorial planning was anchored in last year's amendment to the Construction Act, was not happy. By the way, I will point out that this amendment was already being prepared at the time of the economic boom, when it was evident that there would be a shortage of employees. Because, ladies and gentlemen, that is one of the key problems. Lack of qualified staff, respectively. the lack of staff to carry out this agenda at all. I too often get very alarming cases of how long builders have to wait for this position. On the other hand, I would like to point out that this is certainly for a broader discussion, and here I agree with what the Minister said regarding the division of the level of decision-making of these matters, on which this position should be given, on which it should not. But what I would like to point out to the Minister is that in this debate I consider it unserious that the mention of Mr Kolovratník's amendment is included in it, without knowing this amendment, and that through the President, Mr colleague, you are really supposed to serve as the battering ram to break the bill. It really seems unserious to me when the Minister talks about an amendment that is not presented here, and it is ultimately intended to serve to approve the motion to reject the proposal of Mr Rakušan, the amendment to the construction law. I really don't think that's appropriate on such a serious subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u23	Mr. Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u24	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I would also respond to my colleague Kolovratník. I don't think talking here about the 48th, whose second reading will be until this afternoon, is at least misleading. As rapporteur for this bill, I am not convinced that approval will be smooth and, above all, will not have a smooth implementation process. But I'm going back to the building bill. I've always said that the construction law needs to be ripped apart, thrown away, burned, destroyed, and written a new one. I remember the time when we were here just discussing and approving the last amendment and I, because I had already passed both chambers of Parliament, I always asked when the construction law came on the agenda, whether the amendment meant shortening the preparation time for its own implementation and whether the preparation time would be shorter than the construction period. None of the referring ministers ever answered that question. I must honestly say that the Minister is innocent because, of course, she was not a minister at the time. I think that really building law is a big problem. We come across it in all areas of human activity because it has to be built. If we don't make a major change, and I think this change is minor, I think it is necessary, because really as the stamps go up, there are increasing officials that we can't get today because they don't exist on the labour market, so we're going into a vicious circle. I would really appeal to let this proposal, this minor, but significant adjustment into the next reading, because what we can do at this point in time to get better results is to talk about it, to discuss it, because without discussion, no good amendment will ever arise. Please let her go to second reading and let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u25	Mr Beitl with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also join as a representative of Jablonec's statutory city. I confirm that we're not in any danger of a crisis, the crisis situation is already in office. We really are not able to meet the legal deadlines in the building process. The personnel situation at the construction office is absolutely critical. All experienced people are being sucked out by the private sector. When I tell you that people who have a professional experience in the construction business as well, it's not a joke, but it's a real situation that the secretary of our office has to face. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u27	Thank you, too. I don't have any more factual points, so please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u28	Thank you again for the floor. I'd just have a little reaction to the previous speakers here. Of course, we were communicating with everyone across the political spectrum during the month of March, April, and we told everyone that we really addressed all the construction offices. All the people we've been communicating with know that we've done such a questionnaire inquiry that bothers them doesn't bother them. The questionnaire investigation ended in mid-May. That is why we immediately approached the draft amendment, unfortunately this proposal was not communicated with the Ministry in any way. It was also said that there was a critical situation in the area of personnel status. Yes, but I'm sure we can't figure that out -- they're still one and the same officials, either at the construction offices or at the zoning authorities. So, not the zoning authorities, now the construction authorities, but it's still gonna be about the people that aren't gonna be enough. And once again, I must remind you that this is about coordination in the territories. That means, the point is that we really do have - that these authorities and the number of construction offices were not resolved by the amendment to the construction law. So today we have special construction offices for railways, highways, local communications, waterworks, radioactive waste, etc. etc. etc. This means, when I set an example on those motorways, I can give an example that if the Ministry of Industry and Trade, as a special office, would issue a joint permit for the transmission system and, in the same place, the municipal construction office would authorise the primary school, that is why coordination of the territory is needed. Therefore, once again, I really dare ask you to reject this law, because it is really all being dealt with in that amendment in Act 416. And of course there is a need to recodify building law - and here I completely identify with all my colleagues - to continue because I say again, building law is a procedural law, but the environment around it, the legal environment needs to be addressed. Of course, we have 46 organs involved. I totally agree with the delivery, fiction, etc. We are, of course, discussing this in Mr Benda's amendment. So the things that are coordinating with the Ministry are what we're trying to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u29	Now two factual points - Mr Adamec and Mr Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u30	Mr President, colleagues, I am staring. I have to respond to what the secretary said. Madam Secretary, you are arguing here by law or by draft law which has not yet been approved, and those amendments, we will be voting on them at third reading. I'm just not convinced that the $46 will end well. I am not convinced at all, and I am not going to put my hand in the fire for one single MP. This is where the vote's gonna be. So let's not do this on a proposal from another law where this is supposed to be handled, and let's do it right now. Let's put it on second reading, it's actually nothing. To make something that isn't yet, something that isn't yet, I don't think it's serious.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u31	Mr Kupka, then Mr Rakušan, all factual remarks. [[There's another MP reporting.]] Really or properly, too? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u32	I'm gonna go back to who's really doing this and where there's this overload problem. Well, at this point, on the zoning authorities, there was a new problem. At a time when the number of binding opinions could be reduced, we are able to solve the problem of overshooting the zoning authorities. And it is true that the number of people involved in spatial planning is significantly limited, and the amendment created a completely new need, which the Czech Republic is not able to cover really. And you're hearing it from people who are in real, close contact with the very authorities of spatial planning, even in their senses they're in charge. So it's a serious problem, a critical situation in many places has really occurred, not that it's just a threat. Another essential point - coordination. But even this doesn't solve the coordination perfectly. We know that there is a need to reduce the number of binding opinions, so let's look at who can better manage the coordination and whether there is a better solution, for example. return it really, as we propose, and as we will undoubtedly continue to have fun, to the municipal construction authorities, which, even in the previous period, provided territorial decisions even where the special construction office subsequently decided in the construction proceedings, so that the knowledge was clear. And one final point. The recipe we want to give is the approval of a technical digital map of the Czech Republic, i.e. a new source, which for anyone in that territory, whether it will be a community with extended scope, a building office on one or two, was able to easily check whether the intention in the territory hinders it, from the territorial plans of municipalities and cities to binding opinions, respectively. principles of territorial development of individual regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u33	Thank you. Mr. Rakušan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I will simply respond to the Minister and try such a brief and clear recapitulation. There's a real problem we all know about, we've all agreed on it here, whether we're in favour of rejection or release for second reading. Secondly, the problem is caused by the construction law. Third, that's why we're dealing with the building bill and its change. Fourth, we are not voting today on this amendment coming into force. We let the law go into second reading and allow discussion. And to tie the debate to whether or not something will be approved this afternoon, and yet under another law, the approach is irrational. Once again, if there is an objectively existing problem caused by the construction law, let us discuss it in the framework of the construction law, in the second reading, where we can definitely discuss what will happen to our proposal if Mr Kolovratník's amendment is approved today. But to make it subject to something that is not approved, and therefore not to let it go into second reading - it lacks logic and only shows that we do not really want to solve the problem at the moment, or it shows that it is an opposition proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u35	Mrs. Kovářová, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, there have been arguments and arguments sufficiently strong. The fact that the current regulation prevents people from obtaining a building permit means that they are long awaited for a building permit as far as their family houses are concerned. That's one thing. The second thing, which is also very important and also concerns basically all citizens, is that municipalities do not receive or lose a grant if they do not obtain a building permit. And when the citizens ask the mayor who's to blame and who wants to change it, the answer is clear - the starosta and the Independents want to change it. And who doesn't want to change that is also clear. As I have been around the Chamber of Deputies, I will tell the mayors that the YES movement was against this law and has put forward a motion for rejection, the SPD as well as for colleagues, they are not yet determined. Just so the mayors know who's helping them in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u37	Mr. Adamec, indeed. My colleague, I can see you, but factual remarks take precedence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, mayors must help themselves, that is the old truth, the old reality. I know what I'm talking about, from my own practice. But I wanted to respond here to the words of my fellow Rakušan. You know, today, if we had a third reading of that 40-sixteen in the afternoon, maybe we could at least have guessed the result, but we're only having a second reading today and we're just going to sum up all the amendments. I'm really wondering how many more are coming. Because if you remember, it was supposed to be a very simple novel that was supposed to pass in the '90s reading, that is, at first reading, and it was supposed to be approved. So it's not like that. [[10.50 hours]] I'm gonna go back to the construction bill. I didn't get to say it here at the time limit. At the time we last approved of this, there were about 300 amendments, which is already evidence of the quality of the proposed proposal. And I must say that we, who supported some good amendments, ultimately did not support the law as a whole, because we were afraid that there would be a number of problems, and we cannot even discover them at three House meetings. Again, let's go to the new construction law, not by redoing the old one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u39	Mrs Kovářová, indeed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I am so sorry to hear what I have to say. I have given two reasons which lead to problems and which this legislation causes. And what didn't happen. From behind, Minister Brabec told me I was talking shit. I'm so sorry, it's possible sometimes. However, I sometimes disagree with the phrases the Minister says, and I also do not express myself in this way. If the Minister wants to explain to me why I'm saying stupid things, let him get off the mike. And I'd beg him not to shout it from behind like that, because it's not worthy of the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u41	In fact, Mr. Minister and then Mr. MP Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u42	So I am very sorry, but the exact wording was, I think tenderly, that I said: Please do not sue a colleague. So I don't know, maybe it needed an ear exam. I'm sorry, I really said it that way. If you misunderstood, I'm sorry about that, but there really wasn't a word about talking, and it literally sounded, "Please don't sue, colleague. That's how you're gonna tell the mayors who backed it and who didn't. And it was said really gently, but if you understand it differently, I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u43	Mr. Feri. [[An application from the diaper.]] I cannot change the order, so Mr Feri, then Mr Rakušan and then Mrs Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u44	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I wanted Mrs. Kovářová to respond, but I can't. Anyway, there's a very unpleasant trend here. There has been a proposal here that is sane, which is reasonable, based on experience from practice and which wants to address a rather serious situation. But unfortunately, the opposition party, the mayors, and the independents, presented it in disgrace. And that's why we're going to deal with this now, this afternoon we're going to sturgeon with an amendment that, as already mentioned, we don't know how it's going to turn out. Please, let's do the second reading. And you know that, according to the Rules of Procedure, we can withdraw the proposal until the start of the third reading debate. The designer can take him back. If this afternoon goes well, I'm sure it can happen, so we can sort it out this way. But let's just get this over with for the second reading, please. The situation is really acute. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u45	Mr. Rakušan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u46	Well, I'll just make one comment for the Minister. You know, even though you said what you said, he didn't say, so yelling in the back of a lady, that's not what a well-behaved man does. Mr. Secretary, stop it. I don't know if you've ever stood by that speaker's counter and someone yelled at you from behind. It's a very unpleasant situation. And in some way, from behind to mentor, to all the ladies, it shows something about your human quality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u47	Mr. Ferjenčík. Mrs Kovářová has withdrawn her facts, so it is Mr Ferjenčík's turn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u48	Thank you for the floor. I would like to draw my colleagues' attention to the fact that the proposal also has relatively significant risks, which are not mapped out in detail at all on the parliamentary proposal as if it were in the Government's proposal. After all, I think that the proposal to release the zoning authorities in the 49th century is very problematic, and the constitutional law committee has proposed to cross it out. So I certainly wouldn't downplay it here, like the mayors put their heads together and found a solution, but the solution may have fatal consequences for some other context. And I'll admit I'm not gonna dare say it's gonna be good or bad here from the table. And from my experience in this House in the past, in the following readings, often those proposals are not given such substantive control as would be needed. So please don't label people here who have reservations about this proposal by trying to make it impossible to build. The second thing is that the problem is given in principle far more significantly by not being able to pay the experts at the construction offices, at all in the state administration, and that we have a shortage of them, and not necessarily by the way those authorities' competences are set against each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u49	Mr. Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u50	Thank you. I would like to respond to Mr Ferjenčík through Mr President-in-Office. The problem isn't that the officials are missing. The problem is that the third-degree office has to express itself to such buildings as the construction of a garage somewhere, such as the construction of a swimming pool and so on. And people wait a year, a year and a half. That's the problem. The problem is not a lack of experts and officials. The problem is that the government is constantly getting new and new competences and bureaucracy is increasing. That is why I would beg, because we really don't know how this Bill 416 is going to turn out, and it won't be voted on today, so please let's put this on second reading. And it's only in the second, third reading that we can solve this. Let's discuss it, let's not kill it right from the start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u51	That was the last point of fact. So now, with the proper application, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset of my report, I have mentioned practically all the specific data and things, just to mention, I will respond a little to my previous speakers through Mr President. It was mentioned here that there were not enough experts in the local planning offices. But let's face it, the lack of experts is not currently... there is not enough anywhere, not only in public administration, but also in the economy of our Czech Republic. We see it today and every day. That's the first argument. The second thing is, he's been saying it over and over and over and over and over again, that we need to move on to second reading, to deal with it today. But it has also been mentioned several times here that the upcoming press 76, where the amendment to Act 416 is being addressed, will address this topic here. This means that there will also be a solution to the issue of coordination opinions, in which cases yes, in which no. It's been spinning around here a couple of times. So, for the reason that this topic will be concerned with the press, which I assume will be discussed in the coming days or weeks, I think we would be wasting time here to discuss it on two levels. I propose that this press be rejected at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u53	Thank you. We will, of course, vote on that. I will ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. If you don't, I'm done. Let me ask you about the final words. I beg the plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you once again to conclude this fruitful discussion to encourage the proposal to proceed to second reading. We have an objectively existing problem here, which was created by the amendment of the construction law. We have hundreds and thousands of people waiting for a building permit for 55 weeks in vain. If you ask about the economic impact of our regulation, it cannot be negative, as it reduces the bureaucratic burden and, if necessary, the burden of staffing this agenda. If you ask whether or not compliance with the zoning plan will be coordinated, then in the case of buildings such as garages, such as swimming pools, this argument is, after all, a little ridiculous. And I stress once again that a swamped official at the ORP, and here I speak from the experience of the mayor, does not really guarantee that compliance within the entire region with the zoning plan is ensured better than that particular official at the level where he has to make decisions, and that is as close as possible to the people. [[11.00 hours]] If we release this proposal to second reading, I am prepared to discuss with the Minister and all others what technical and legal links are missing in our proposal. I am prepared to come up with a second reading with the improvement and technical precision of the proposal, but I believe, in substance, that the promotion of second reading release gives a clear signal that the Chamber of Deputies, across the political spectrum, wants to address one of the real and at this time very pressing existing problems of citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u55	Thank you, too. The rapporteur does not want the final word? [[No.]] In that case, we will vote. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby. There was a motion to dismiss the motion, so we will decide on it in the vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of rejection. Who's against it? It's vote number 152, registered 175, for 111, against 47. The proposal was adopted and the bill was rejected in the first reading. I'm done with point 35. I will read the apology of Minister Stropnický from 11:00 to 4:00 for work reasons. Mrs Majerová. I ask the Volný Member to clear space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u56	I would just like to say that, of course, I respect the vote, but my device didn't work. [[- But you don't want to...]] No.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u57	Excellent. And Mrs Vrecionová? So I'm erasing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u58	I also add that I voted against the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-005-035.u59	Okay. So, for the screen recording, only the details. So we're going to continue with point number
