ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u1	38. Government bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and Act No. 66/2017 Coll., amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and other related Acts, as amended by Act No. 290/2017 Sb. House print 302/ - first reading Thank you for the rapporteur's table, both Minister Adam Vojtěch and rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Věra Adámková, and we can begin the discussion when, under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be presented by the Minister for Health. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Mr. Secretary, I'll wait a little longer. Please, if you're having a conversation other than the Drug Act, out of the O.R.! I think it must bother each of you that he can't say his word in a normal environment that he's been given. Then respect it! Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you the Government's bill amending the law on medicines. The aim of this amendment is to take the next step in the area of the electronisation of health care, thanks to the precising of the system of electronic precripe and especially the anchoring of so-called. Patient' s medical record. I think you all remember the debate that took place in this House at the end of 2017, when we discussed so-called. electronic recipe and entry into force from 1. 1. 2018. At that point, I said that we were in favour of deferring sanctions for an electronic recipe for a year, with the fact that during this transitional period, we would prepare the drug record as a very important functionality, which the professional public in particular lacked at that time. That is why I am pleased that I can now present this proposal as a follow-up to the promise that I made at the end of 2017 to this House. The adoption of this amendment will therefore complete the legislation of mandatory electronic transcription. As I was saying, the electronic transcription itself, virtually. However, due to the need for such an adjustment, it was necessary to proceed to a more detailed and clearer adjustment, within which a system of mandatory electronic prescription of medicinal products, as well as the area of dispensation, would operate comprehensively. The submitted amendment provides a full legislative framework for mandatory electronic prescription of medicinal products. The introduction of a patient's drug record will enable prescribers and pharmacists to consult data on prescribed and issued medicinal products of a particular patient, thereby ensuring that other health services provided consist of prescription and expenditure of medicinal products are improved. The possibility to view this drug record is a logical and effective use of the data that already exist today. They are collected in the central repository of electronic recipes, but the drug record is not shared, that is, it is not possible to share information about prescribed and issued recipes and medications across health service providers. This functionality of the system, as I said, has been demanded very from the professional public, because it is true that doctors and pharmacists currently do not know what medications the patient is taking, which can cause very unpleasant consequences in terms of prescribing medications that adversely interact with the medicines that the patient is taking or are duplicated and so on. We know that unfortunately many patients in the Czech Republic will die as a result of prescribed medications that will ultimately harm the patient and not help the patient. This means that this drug record will allow the prescription to take into account the patient's previous current pharmacotherapy, and the physician or pharmacist will no longer be relied on only for information provided by the patient, when there is no doubt that there is often no guarantee, especially in chronically ill patients taking relatively large amounts of medication, that this information will be complete and accurate. In addition to anchoring the patient's drug record itself, the government bill also regulates other questions. In particular, the eRecipe information system is newly anchored as an information system of public administration that will enable comprehensive implementation and support of electronic prescription of medicinal products and their dispensation. In addition to the patient's drug record, the eRecipe will be part of the central storage of electronic recipes, a register of restricted medicinal products, a consent management system and a journal of activities. The draft law further defines the scope of the State Institute for Drug Control as the founder, operator and administrator of the eRecipe system with precisely defined competencies and obligations. The proposal also sets out the persons and entities having access to the eRecipe system, the way and extent of their access and defines the purpose for which the information obtained can be used. I must say that the proposal was worked on by a very broad working group consisting of its important Stakeholders, whether they are health insurance companies, professional companies, chambers, patients, in short, all those involved. Similarly, the proposal was consulted with the Office for Personal Data Protection, with which all the comments were finally dealt with without conflict. I think that the proposal is very consensual in this regard across the professional public, across the patient public, across institutions to supervise data security and the protection of personal data. This means that I think I can ask you to support this proposal at this point because I think, and I am convinced that not only will this proposal move the Czech Republic very qualitatively in the field of electronicisation of health care, that is, the possibility of data sharing within the health sector, but above all, it will ensure better and safer care for our patients. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u3	I thank the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch and I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Věra Adámková to present her report. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat what the Minister has said here because he has made the law very clear. I must say that the drug record, or the electronicisation of the drug record, is what the professional public has been calling about. And if we hadn't taken this next step, it was completely unnecessary to introduce an electronic recipe, because in that case, it would have been wasted money. The electronic recipe isn't just meant to be printed electronically, we could do that for a fraction of the money, but we have to have information so we don't damage the patient. Electronization of the public administration, and it certainly belongs to the health sector, is not only a government priority, after all, but notabene was an electoral program of many parties, so I don't think we have it here in the basic problem. The law is being re-established - I will not repeat what the Minister said, just to explain some new concepts to explain. This means to what extent a pharmaceutical assistant can supply medicine, which are people who are not magisters of pharmacy, but have either secondary or higher vocational schools, and they cannot confuse medicines. That means there's a treatment here so that the patient can actually get what he's been prescribed. You know very well that a few years ago, the House, I don't want to say this, because of course it wasn't the same composition, but this House allowed, if a prescribed effective molecule, to be a pharmacist, meaning a master or doctor of pharmacy, to give actually an effective molecule in another generic preparation. A pharmaceutical assistant couldn't do that, and that's good. So this is where it's treated to keep the patient safe. [[9.40 hours]] Another thing that is important there is the possibility to look into the history of medicines that are necessary, because the doctor is responsible for the medications he writes, and you know that the patient really, it is not possible for him to even fully require him to know everything he's been taking, or some of the things that people are putting down for good. There will also be a chance to look at a pharmacist to avoid issuing counterproductive drugs that could have been issued in another pharmacy several days before. Of course, the most important thing is data sharing. The data must be treated, which is, of course, described here, because it is important not only to improve patient care, but to maintain the security of their data, because this is an important topic. I believe that this law is supposed to have a chance to move forward with further reading, and I very much ask all colleagues, including those who do not deal directly with health care, but ultimately we all know that we have a variety of flows and we have opinions to eventually improve them with their opinions, but we can only do that if he is released further, which I hope will happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u5	Thank you. Before I open the debate, I state the apology of the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok from 9:00 to 10:00 from today's meeting, which came to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. We're good to go. I am opening up a debate, but I am saying that I have no application for it. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. The first is Mr. Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u6	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I kind of feel like I'm the only one who woke up here this morning. We have before us a draft law on pharmaceuticals, which, although it is actually a health and not very complex standard. I think that this is an absolutely, absolutely fundamental standard and is far from just a matter of health as such. I will propose in my speech that we order both the bill and the constitutional law committee. I consider this absolutely necessary, because the main content, in my opinion, is not how people are treated, but how information about them is shared, how information about them is shared in the health system. We've had this discussion several times in the past, sometime in 2010. If I'm not mistaken, there were first suggestions for eRecipes and entry, and when the patient can allow and when the patient can disable. At the time, it was a warrant, I'll tell a specific doctor when he can go to my medical records. Now comes the ministry with a completely reversed concept, 81e, although there are of course previously such noble sentences that say: a doctor can only look at it if it is needed to heal. But we've been through this so many times that different public, private, and other subjects can only look at it when they need it for their performance, and how many times we've learned that someone's just checking us out, that someone's just figuring out what's interesting about me. And here we are at once in the administration of consent, § 81e, in that I have to actively disagree with the fact that it is allowed to look at me - either to all doctors or only to some particular doctors? I think this is an absolutely crucial question. It's a crucial question. In my deepest conviction, I'm supposed to say who and at what point can look at my drug record, who can go check if I don't have any contraindications, if I'm not taking something else, if I'm not coming for a third cure. That's probably okay, but I'm supposed to be the one to say it, and not the doctor who, by the way, is still being kept by a medical secret, so it's a bad way to get inside and see if he's just doing it to check on his wife, for example, children, if he's not upset and taking any preparations, neighbors and others. So this is the first problem I see there, and I think it has nothing to do with the treatment itself, but it has something to do with the protection of personal data, and I think we should look at it from a different perspective than from a doctor's point of view. I believe that many doctors, especially those who are in hospitals, and now they have different people coming in, often even people who can hardly be traced, how they are being treated and whether they are being treated, that they are happy when they can look into it. I understand, I have also spoken to many of them, but I do not think it is possible to write laws for people who are somewhere on the outskirts of society, but the laws are to be written for people who are in the center. This is related to the second point that is quite fundamental, which concerns Section 112a, special confidentiality and security procedures. Quite a non-standard product again. It still looks as noble as it looks that everything is treated in the law, but suddenly we start to say that for some parts of society, the government is laying down regulations. Again, let us note that, in my view, we are far beyond the powers of the government to lay down regulations, special procedures for confidentiality purposes. And now we have the purpose of secreting activities - intelligence services, police, military police, customs, general inspection of the security forces and armed forces of the Czech Republic and ensuring the security of their members and soldiers in active service - we can use special procedures in carrying out the tasks provided for by this law. What are these special procedures? Is this just about really classified information? Then I might be able to understand that there is such a thing. Or is this about ensuring the security of their members and soldiers in active service? Then I ask why there are only armed corps. How come there are no constitutional officials? How come the President of the Republic isn't there? How come the judges aren't there? How come there's no prosecutors? That's what the armed corps have been lobbying for, that they will have some kind of special administration, a government regulation that will say: here you can, it will be classified, it will be run under foreign names. Do you really think that if anyone wants to take something out of drug records and drug files, they'll be interested in a police officer or customs officer XY in the county? Do you really think it won't be all of us in the first place? First of all, every judge who judges? Attorneys? I just feel like there are things that are deeply, deeply unthinkable. And I would very much like to be able to agree that, in addition to the Health Committee, which, please, considers this from the point of view of what is needed for the health of the population to be addressed by the Constitutional Committee, and I do not know if it should also go to Mrs Válková, when it nods to me here, to the Committee on Petitions, because it is essential to protect the rights of patients, and I think that in Section 112 it also substantially concerns the possibility or scope of authorising the executive power that we are willing to provide as the House. I think that this scope of executive power is beyond and beyond the scope of the people's circle, because I find it really incredibly surprising that all security forces and services are there, but there are no constitutional officials. That seems very strange to me, and I think that's the thing we should be talking about again. Unfortunately, it is a typical proposal that ministerial servants process only in agreement with one another without thinking in general about how the state works. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u7	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Another speaker in the debate is Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Mr Kohoutek has made a point of fact? No. In that case, I'm erasing. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u8	Good morning, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Let me also make a brief comment on the amendment to the Act on Medicines, House Press 302. It has already been said from both the Minister's mouth and the rapporteur that this amendment concerns the functioning of electronic transcription, introduces some changes that should better meet the objective of electronic transcription, and it also introduces a so-called pharmaceutical record that will enable the patient, as well as the treating doctors and pharmacists, to share information on prescribed medicines. I want to say here that I welcome the fact that the Ministry is fulfilling its promise at the turn of last year and this year. It is very good that we can discuss this proposal here in the House. That is my first point. [[9.50 hours]] Unfortunately, what I don't quite welcome is the date when we are beginning to discuss such a significant change. We have 2 November today, and that wouldn't be a problem if the Ministry didn't also propose the effectiveness of this change from 1. 1. 2019. I see this as a big problem. And here I would follow up on the words of both the rapporteur and colleague Marek Benda, because the passage concerning the drug record actually has a major impact on the personal rights of the ten million inhabitants of this republic. This needs to be clearly realized. This isn't about some paramedic stalking, like they'd want it to work. This is indeed a very fundamental change that needs to be discussed very well. I also welcome the proposal for a wide range of committees to address this proposal. So at this point, I see two reasonable options for how we can deal with this novel with honor. Either we now consider that we need to shift efficiency by at least a quarter of a year, perhaps six months, even knowing that some passages are designed with delayed efficiency. However, there is critically little time left for us to discuss closely in particular the modality of the drug record. That's one possibility. The second option in the amendments is to remove the part relating to the drug record, to approve more general changes by the end of the year regarding electronic prescription, because we know there are some problems that would be appropriate to approve from 1. 1. 2019, and this drug record dealt with separately within another amendment. If we do this in a hurry to approve the whole change as proposed, we will, in my opinion, make fatal mistakes and create distrust between the public and the paramedics. And I don't think they deserve a very much-needed drug record project. So I believe that we can agree on a reasonable procedure so that we can bring the drug record into shape that will be needed, which will benefit both patients and health professionals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u9	I thank Mr Vít Kaňkovský and now, with a factual remark, Mr Petr Pávek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u10	Good morning, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, vote for the release of this law until further reading, but at the same time I will propose his commandments for discussion in the Economic Committee, despite the fact that we have a lot of work to do there, due to the request of the proposed law to report the prices of producers, distributors and pharmacies. In view of this obligation that the proposed law prejudices, I believe that the impact on the economy could be enormous, and we would like to look at it there. So my proposal will order this press to the Economic Committee as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u11	I thank Mr Pávek for his speech. I don't have any more written applications. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. Yes, Minister. In the debate, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u12	Thank you so much for the floor, Mr President. I would only dare to respond to what was said here. If I were to respond to Mr Benda through you, it is not that any doctor in the Czech Republic will have access to the drug record, if he thinks he will say, patient XY, I want to look at his medication. There is a clear indication that there must be a certain relationship between the doctor and the patient. And the relationship is defined in two ways. Either the doctor has to prescribe at least one prescription for the patient, and the prescription must also be issued. In order that it cannot be faked, that only prescribes a fictitious prescription, the prescription must also be given to the patient at the pharmacy. Or, on presentation of an ID, the patient who consents to consult the drug record. This means that there really must be this relationship between the treating physician and his patient, not any doctor, who will be able to look at the medical record of any patient. This must be said at the outset, so that we do not just raise a certain concern here that any doctor invents the patient's name and looks at his drug record. Indeed, this is not the case. With regard to the questions of exceptions for secret services, etc., I must say that this was the result of inter-ministerial commentary proceedings. That wasn't a proposal directly from the Ministry. It was a fundamental point, we accepted it and, of course, we are prepared to deal with this in the course of further discussions and, if necessary, adapt it. But, of course, we must focus on this in cooperation with the relevant departments. But I'm sure it's for debate. As for Mr Kaňkovský, by your means, Mr President, efficiency 1. 1. 2019 was indeed given at a time when we did not fully know exactly when the law would be discussed, even if there was a six-month transitional period. The six-month transitional period is to be used for so-called the opt-out system, referred to by Mr Benda, means that the patient's citizen will express an active disagreement with sharing his drug record or disagreement with sharing for certain doctors. He will, of course, then also be able to express this disapproval. But we put the six-month transitional period there precisely for this reason, so that there would be sufficient time for those who do not want the drug record to be shared to be declared actively, and the drug record will not be shared. But, of course, as part of the second reading, we can also talk about extending the deadline, because, as I say, we didn't know exactly when the proposal would come here to the House. So it's more of a technical thing, I think. So this is just a basic response for me, but I hope that we will, of course, have an opportunity to do so in all the committees that have been mentioned here. We certainly do not have a problem with the proposal being discussed in detail not only in the Health Committee, but also in the other House Committees that have been proposed. I'm sure it's a groundbreaking proposal to some extent, but it's a proposal that goes in the right direction from my point of view. It goes in the direction of most countries within Europe, i.e. towards the electronicisation of health care, to share information within health care providers. And we're more of a catch-up in this direction with a run-in train of states west of us. I think it is simply necessary and that the opt-out system that is designed there also gives the patient the opportunity to simply, if they disagree, not share his data. But I generally believe that this will be appreciated to ensure higher quality and health care safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u13	I thank the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch and we have two factual points. First from Mr Marek Benda, second from Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. So, a factual remark from Mr Marek Benda. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u14	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, I do not want to dramatically extend the debate, I think it belongs to the committee. But so far, I'm not entirely convinced by your performance. When we look at the drug record, § 81d, it says that the patient's identity is demonstrated through the eRecept system by verifying the ID number or passport in the basic population register. That means all I have to do is get my ID number, and I'm not doing anything else. I don't have a chip on my ID. The I.D. doesn't have to be physically present. The moment someone knows my ID number and is also a doctor or a paramedic, it looks like he has consent. By the way, the fact that he had to have something to pick up for the electronic recipe is also not stated in the previous sentence. But I would still understand that there's a way to unload it. But this fact that someone knows my ID number doesn't mean they have to be my attending physician.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is now also making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u16	I think we agree that there seems to be no more sensitive personal data than information on health, medicines, etc. And if it was approved the way it's designed, then actually when I compare that next time we vote GDPR, there's a legitimate reason to deal with the personal data. The minister described it as a transitional six-month period. I don't want to argue here whether it's a lot or not. But it bothers me that the principle is quite the opposite. And my question is, why isn't it the other way around? Why don't I actively give my consent? Why should I actively disagree? This certainly makes it easier for the state at the expense of its citizens. How do we get information to the citizens that he has a chance to disagree within six months? He might not be going to the doctor at the time, he won't be here. I would still understand that I have to give my consent. Then it's reasonable, the doctor asks, explains, and the patient says yes or no. But this is actually how we're gonna put it in place for everyone, and then we're gonna say, yeah, but you had six months, you didn't come, you didn't agree, so you automatically agreed. That's what bothers me. Then let's have a debate on the data protection committees as such. But Minister, why don't we turn around? We are simplifying this to someone at the expense of all citizens of the Czech Republic. Let's turn around. Let's make it simple for the citizens, and those who need it will certainly convince the patients. If I have confidence in my doctor, he will tell me that it is reasonable for me to give it, that it will increase the likelihood of success of treatment or that there will be no contraindications, etc., I will definitely believe the doctor I know and give him the consent. Or when he tells me that from the doctors I go to, he needs that consent to look. This is how it seems to me to be a really big hit on those rights, and citizens just won't know. And let's not say that from the report after the House meeting, I can disagree within six months, it really gets to every citizen that everyone notices. That's the problem I see there. Thank you for any answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jiří Ventruba, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that we have been discussing this issue on the Health Committee and that we, as doctors, are very responsible for this. And as a tech guy, I'd like to say that this is the primary requirement here, if it's the patient's order and he has to defend himself, or he's supposed to give his consent first, and then it can start, I just want to tell you that it's not the only law. We have a law in health care that almost no one knows about, and that's that if any of us from the residents of our republic doesn't directly disagree with the fact that his organs can be transplanted after his death, and he doesn't give this written document, then everyone who died can be transplanted. I'm just explaining the technical stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u19	Thank you. Another point of fact is that of Mr Petr Pávek. Good morning, dear colleagues. Before I give the floor to Mr Pávek, I will read the apologies. Minister Jana Maláčová apologizes until the end of the day for working reasons and Minister Jan Kněžínek also apologizes until the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u20	Thank you. It's just because I see that the Minister is about to answer the previous questions, I would add one, because that was not clear to me from the law. How the patient's consent is dealt with then in Ergent cases, i.e. When is he unconscious, when is he transported? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u21	Thank you. Another point of fact is that of Mr Jiří Mašek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond here through Mr President to Mr Stanjura. I see this as an opportunity to make a real decision and agree that I want a particular doctor to look at my drug record. But the reality is really like this - it's like the transplant law, as my colleague Ventruba here spoke about it. If we wanted to solve this similarly, the transplant will stop in the Czech Republic. And the point of the game in the drug record, respectively. for eRecipe and extended possibilities, it is really to prevent fatal combinations of medicines that we do not talk about very much here and which really, e.g. for medicines that increase bleeding, etc., they may lead to the death of patients. It can be prevented by unnecessary deaths and unnecessary complications. And so I would actually see that the assumption that a patient over a period of six months can express an active disagreement that it is sufficient time. Our media can inform, we can inform, and the patient can actually decide. So we would essentially deny the sense of taking these measures, the electronization, and the possibilities that we can gain. So I wouldn't really be up for this at this point, and for health reasons, I would be up for the patient to make a choice and an event. he refused this possibility of sharing information about him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u23	Thank you. Mr Marek Benda, President Zbyněk Stanjura and Mr Svoboda will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u24	Dear Vice-President, Minister, I would not, with all due respect to the honourable colleagues of the paramedics, involve transplantation. That's a really different story. This discussion has also been held here for quite a long time in the Chamber of Deputies, whether it should be an active agreement or an active disagreement. But let's see when the transplant situation is. They are very often young people who die in an accident that does not even think about such things. We're in a completely reverse guard here, aren't we? The point here is that we are trying to treat people - and a possible combination of medicines - who, on the contrary, are more frequent in health care, more regularly. Not to me, who's been in a health facility once or twice in the last 30 years, but to someone who's more frequent, more regularly. He should give the qualified approval. And it shouldn't be a vending machine that everybody gives it. It's a very different situation than those transplants. I think we should have fun on these committees, whether it's really in the form of qualified consent, or this exemption from the regime. Because at that moment of exclusion, we know how it works in the Czech Republic. It's all of them. It's all of them. No one goes to the SÚKL within six months, most people don't even know where the SÚKL is, frankly, but no one will report to the SÚKL within six months that they don't want his drug records to be maintained. Then it's a vending machine that applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u25	Thank you. Another president of Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u26	I, Mr Vice-President, would like to respond to Mr Mašek's speech. Basically, you're right that there are two angles here. And for me, the right to the protection of personality, of personal rights is just more valuable. Even with the risk you were talking about. It's pretty clear to me on these scales. I understand that especially those who treat patients can see this differently. Therefore, I suggest we consider this carefully. Marek Benda is right about who's really gonna do it in six months, active disapproval. It's just something uncomfortable, something unusual, and it's just not gonna happen. So let's not say that there's going to be an information campaign, and tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of patients are going to report their disapproval. It's just not gonna be like that. I would assume that on the first visit to the doctor, the doctor will ask: there is a new possibility of legislation, I recommend it, it is good, we reduce the risk. And I say, if I believe that doctor, I think he'll convince me as a patient. But on the contrary, I find it very dangerous. And that's generally true of the digitization of the company. I'm the original professional programmer, so I'm definitely up for it, but we're not supposed to end up in the company of a big brother, where the state knows everything about us and ultimately decides for us. And the state will tell us what is good for us and what is bad for us. That's what I'm afraid of. [[10.10 hours]] And now I'm passing the question of data protection. And now, not only did someone look unauthorized, as Mr Benda said in his first speech, but generally leaked data. Are there leaks of data from bank houses that undoubtedly invest huge amounts in protecting their clients? They're happening. How often do they happen? All experts agree that what is medialized is just the tip of the iceberg, that far from everything is being dealt with publicly because it would scare clients. So let's consider this question as well. A deliberate attack and deliberate alienation of this data, it just can happen. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] This is also happening to those who spend much greater resources than the state for data protection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u27	Thank you. Another written note is Mr Svoboda and another Mrs Procházková. Before I give you my word, Mr Member, I shall read Mr Holomčík's apology, who apologizes from 10 to 11 o'clock for work reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Many have been told by my predecessors. But I really cannot agree with my colleague Mašek that these are two comparable things. organ donation is certainly a problem, it is rather a problem in a plane of ethical, religious, whatever, but in no way the fact that someone has been taken from an organ will be subject to any general information that would harm anyone. That's a completely different situation, that's incomparable. And I may think the automatic consent isn't good either, but it certainly doesn't have the impact of information on what medication I'm taking. We're in a situation today that we're already forced in VIP patients' hospitals to actually forge in quotes that it's just stored in the material under a fake birth number so that someone doesn't get to it and run away within two days after the hospitalization of someone important, like the art world, everything that's the property of that person. You can't touch that. I think the only way is through doctors that we just have to prepare it so that doctors are the ones who will actively promote it in their patients, because the impact is for patients, but for patients who are ill, not for patients who take long-term psychiatric treatment, and it may mean that their assessment in the world, when this information is known, will be distorted because people simply perceive it differently. They don't know what chronic psychiatric medication is, that it's not really something affecting this person. So I would really be very careful about that. And the inverted guard, which my colleague Stanjura said, seems very good to me. And balance it by actively being processed by the medical public, how to work with this information in their patients. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Those who aren't sick, it doesn't matter, but we can't assume that if they were sick, they'd agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u29	I would ask the Chamber of Deputies if she could keep it down a little bit before I give the floor to the next person in order with the factual remarks made by Mrs Procházková. Mrs Věra Adámková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u30	Thank you for the floor. Hello, everyone present. There's one thing I have to do here as a doctor. I'm having a really hard time listening, and a lot of us here have heard how entrepreneurs, when EETs were introduced, are cheaters, and that's how we take them, and that's not right. I don't think it's right for doctors to turn themselves into cheaters, to take advantage of it. I think every one of the doctors, every one of us, if he wants to, are really gonna find out whatever information he wants. We shouldn't generalize it. The exceptions are here, they'll be, no matter how we protect it, believe me. I think that's what we should talk about in committees. Let us move on, let us have the opportunity to discuss both constitutionally and in the Health Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u31	Thank you. I have four factual points here. The first is Mrs Procházková, sorry Adámková, Mr Svoboda and Mr Rakušan. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am merely responding not now from the position of rapporteur, but as a Member, to clarify the transplantation. As you know, I've been actively involved in transplantology for years. Please, the donor is really so protected that then even the attending doctor doesn't know who the donor was for the recipient, so it's okay. So he doesn't really know. As for the VIP patients, please, I've been going through Homolca Hospital for a very long time, we've dropped patients from the so-called SANOPZ. For the younger ones it was originally the Sanatorium of postal workers, which after 1945, or 1948, I don't know exactly, became a sort of VIP facility and Hospital Na Homolce inherited them. In general, I have to say, I warn very much about any cards that aren't right. As you well know, it is best that our Prime Minister is transparent, who has a card in his name and his birth number, and nothing happens to him, as you can see. So I very much warn against VIP foreign cards for bad birth numbers, because it is especially required by celebrities from the world of show business. It's very bad. We've seen it on the so-called first circuit, I don't know exactly what it meant in the SANOPZ, but we've seen it on Homolce. For these people who bring you in in a crisis situation, if you don't know what number he's under where he is, it's very difficult to take care of them. So I don't think it should be at all. No one is bigger than bůh, and there's no reason not to have their birth number there, but it's been treated to get his data nowhere. Totally okay with that. Those first and second-class people, I have a big problem with that, because it really only brought problems. About what Mr. Ing here said. Stanjura, Mr. docent Svoboda, and now, of course, I say my personal opinion, in those patients, I think that they should, of course, at any time - and it is still written there, but let's put it out there - an opportunity to express themselves and, of course, I would like more active consent. I have to say. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And as far as the opt-out system is concerned, I understand that, because of course we were in Austria from spring, where we also evaluated it, the experience of colleagues, and they have it there, so I understand why it's there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u33	Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, with a factual remark. Mr. Vít Rakušan will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u34	Just a very small technical thing. No one here said that leaking information is due to the poor quality or non-seriousness of doctors. The leak isn't from the doctor, the leak is because the information is somewhere in the system. No one said it was a doctor. I'm even convinced that doctor leaks are minimal. I really have a lot of experience with this through patients. They're minimal. This isn't about doctors at all. That's because the system exists, there's information somewhere, and we can't perfectly protect access to it, like we can't do with bank material. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u35	Thank you. Another is Mr Vít Rakušan with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u36	Thank you for your word. Mr President, by your means to Mrs Adámková. I'm sorry, I myself come from a medical family, and I certainly don't suspect doctors would be the ones who leak information. However, in general, information is already leaking from the medical environment. We are setting up a new system, and we are trying to talk about eliminating all the risks that could lead to a potential escape in this new system. As a patient, as a person who looks at the world from the point of view that personal rights are to be affected by the state and the system as little as possible, I would like to give my consent to anyone else, any other third person, be treated with such sensitive information. That is why, through Mr President, I also commend Mr Benda for wanting this proposal to be discussed in the constitutional committee. This is simply a material that really affects the most intimate information about us as people we are treated for, what medicines we are using, and the leak of such information could actually mean a great deal of intervention for politicians, but in the case of all people in the Czech Republic, our personal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u37	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Profant is entered into the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u38	Good morning, dear colleagues, honored to the public. The problem that has now been raised here is how eRecipe approved it as one central database. That's something we already have. Whenever we have a central database, there's a threat of abuse. That's just the property of this model. Decentralized model has other problems. And now this press gives us some chance to use the database. Since the benefits of the eRecipe are more of an behind-the-scene today, some things should have been introduced, but they have been postponed, and since we already have the database, I think we should use it to the benefit of the citizens and make sure that it is not abused. Of course, let's talk about that. That is why we want to discuss this very closely on the committees. A government proposal is an opt-out, which means whoever doesn't want to ask. We're definitely willing to talk about opt-in, so it's just the one who wants to. But I think it belongs primarily to committees. I don't think it's a very simple discussion. It's the practice that, for example, in accidents or so, it's more complicated than in normal practice with a doctor. And we will certainly not support shortening the deadlines in this case, because it is a complex material that must be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u39	Thank you. I don't see anyone logged in to the debate. Not even from the spot. I don't see anyone logged in with a factual note. I am ending the general debate. Is there interest in final words? Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u40	Thank you for the floor. I don't want to prolong the debate either. I'm sure I think all of this belongs to committees where we're going to discuss it in detail. I'll just try to react briefly. The fact that patients today have been and have been used for many years is simply true, and it doesn't change the drug record. Today, all the data we're talking about here, they already have health insurance companies for each of us. We each have to be insured somewhere with one of the seven health insurance companies in the Czech Republic. And all the data about us these insurance companies have - what tests we've had, what medications we've been prescribed. And I don't think there's any major abuse going on here. The question is whether there is such an atmosphere here that the data must be misused at all costs. Yes, of course, one can never rule out everything, but the fact that we're creating some new data here that hasn't been here so far is not the case. We only allow the data to be shared between providers, among doctors, in the context of some principle of health protection, safety and quality of care. And of course there are two views: opt-in, opt-out. We as the Ministry believe that the opt-out system is better, but we will, of course, also discuss this on the basis of experience from other states, such as Austria, where this system is also and about 3% of patients and citizens actively disagreed that they did not want to share the data, and the system has been working there for many years without major problems. But, of course, that's for the committee debate. I just might still be responding to the emergence question, that's rescue services. There's a special medical emergency regime in the law, because, of course, there can't be a doctor-patient relationship I was talking about because it's a patient who has an acute problem, there's a medical emergency intervention somewhere. And the medical rescue service in this direction is the only provider who has access to this system without the patient's consistent consent, which means he can look into the drugs, which I think is logical, because the medical rescue service can use this. And if, of course, the patient actively disagrees, even the medical rescue services will not have that information. There will be no health service provider in the Czech Republic. So that's what it's all about. But I really don't want to prolong it any longer. I look forward to the debate in the committees, which will be very extensive, as I have had the opportunity to observe. And I beg you to proceed with your release. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u41	Thank you. Is the rapporteur interested? He's not interested. The application for repayment or refusal has not been submitted. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. I'll take a vote. Initiating vote. Who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the committee as a medical guarantee? Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 189, registered 167, for 153, against no one, abstained 14. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? Yes, Mr Benda, Mr Pávek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u42	Mr Vice-President, Minister, I suggest that we order two other committees to do so, namely, the Committee on Constitutional Law, in particular, from the point of view of Section 112, and then I suggest, even after agreement with the President, that we order the Committee on Human Rights and Nationality, because I think that this is a question which really has a particular relationship to patients' rights, not the way in which it should be treated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u43	Thank you. Mr. Pávek MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u44	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I propose that this press be assigned to the Economic Committee for the reasons that I have previously mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-003-038.u45	Are there any other suggestions on the commandment to the committees? I don't see anyone. I will put to a gradual vote on individual proposals. First, we will vote on the commandment as another committee of constitutional law. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 190, registered 167 Members, for 145, against 1. The motion was accepted. Next, I'm going to vote on the commandment of the committee to the petitioner. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 191, registered 167 Members, for 93, against 19. The motion was accepted. And the last vote on the Economic Committee's commandment. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 192, registered 167 Members, for 62, against 50. The motion was denied. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion as further committees of the Committee on Constitutional Law and the Committee on Petitions. I'm done discussing this point. [[10.30 hours]] The next item is:
