ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u1	18. Draft by Members Dominik Feri, Miroslav Kalousek, Helena Langšádlová, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Karel Schwarzenberg, František Vácha and Vlastimil Válek on the issue of the Act amending Act No. 251/2016 Sb., on some offences /house print 84/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 84/1. prosit ask that Mr Dominik Feri present the proposal for the appellants. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good noon, esteemed colleagues. Allow me to introduce to you and introduce House Press 84, our proposal for an amendment to Act No. 251/2016 Coll., on some offences. The purpose of this amendment is to abolish the factual nature referred to in Section 5 (1). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The fact is, "the physical person commits an offence by depreciating the status of an official in the exercise of his authority" and the fine is up to CZK 10,000. In its opinion, the Government finds that the position is negative and mentions that the interest in maintaining the seriousness and authority of the public authorities is crucial. In our opinion, however, this cannot be imposed by fines. Now allow me to take a short historical tour. A certain, say, more consistent and broader protection of officials or officials, of public officials previously, was enshrined in the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the Old Criminal Code, namely § 156 para. 3 which was: Anyone who grossly insults or slanders a public official in the exercise of his authority or for that exercise shall be punished by imprisonment for up to one year or by a cash penalty. This means that the protection was criminal at the time and concerned administrative punishment. Notice that here, in fact, the ex-boyfriend is talking directly about an insult. There is currently talk of disparaging the status of an official, which means that the current regulation is much wider and seduces, let's say, gives room to a certain official for the sake of. This original provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure was repealed by Law 253/1997 and, if I quote from the explanatory report of that law, the last set of adjustments contained in the proposal is the release of two criminal offences providing increased protection for the President of the Republic and other persons in the position of a public official against, above all, verbal attacks. In cases where such an attack is indeed of the nature of gross indecency or disorderly nature, or where it is capable of endangering the seriousness of the offence, such action may be affected in accordance with other provisions of the criminal law protecting each person. That is still true. Now, to give you an idea of how the official or official is currently being protected, what tools he can use to protect himself. The first option is protection provided in the administrative order. This is specifically a fine of up to 50 thousand in accordance with Section 62, which will be granted to the person who makes a grossly abusive application. There is a relatively rich case law of the Supreme Administrative Court concerning specific cases. It's there, for example. the need for a running administrative procedure and that order penalty should actually ensure the successful completion of the administrative procedure. Further in this particular law, i.e. in the Act on certain offences, there is protection for all natural persons, i.e. not only for official persons, specifically in Section 7, these are offences against civil coexistence. For example, in these situations it is possible to apply and subjugate it under deed: A physical person commits an offence by hurting another person on honor by mocking him or otherwise grossly insulting him. In extreme cases, it provides protection and criminal law, for example: the deed of slander. Any person who discloses another false statement which is capable of significantly endangering his or her respect for fellow citizens, in particular to harm him or her in employment, to disrupt family relations or to cause him or her any other serious harm, shall be punished by imprisonment for up to one year in the event of threats to an official. [[12.30 hours]] This proposal is not new, we designed it in the last House. Unfortunately, he hasn't been discussed. And maybe I should explain why we are actually coming with it, or what the implications are and what the use of this substance and this instrument is in the framework of administrative punishment. From the entry into force of this Act, which was on 1 July 2017, until mid-March, when we examined the data from the ISEP application, 456 fines and 29 warnings were granted. Shortly to the government's position. In its opinion, the Government points to an adjustment in other countries and mentions, for example, Germany. I studied German legislation and in the German Criminal Code - Strafgesetzbuch - an insult is, of course - Beleidigung - but there is no distinction in the context of substantive regulation whether it is an insult to an official or an insult to an ordinary citizen. This means that the government actually refers to something that confirms our position that an official, if he is offended in some way, can use the tools that provide him with other laws and use the normal protection that every citizen has. But there is one thing in Germany that I find rather interesting, and it is a procedural specific fact that when an official is offended by someone - an example: a police officer is offended by a driver - at that point his superior can just make a suggestion that the criminal proceedings should be initiated. In Germany, it works quite normally like this. In its opinion, the Government also draws attention to the European Court of Human Rights case-law Janowski versus Poland, very well known, which, of course, draws attention to the specifics of the exercise of public authority and also notes that it is possible to adjust additional rights of public officials, officials, but does not say that this should be done automatically. It is simply some political decision that we want to protect more officials. So much for an introduction. Simply put, we think that officials are already sufficiently protected and that this deed is just a sign of an over-expressed high-ranking attitude of officials in relation to citizens. And maybe one more note from practice. Of course, we were looking to see if this was being used and how officials rate it. I'm not going to name it specifically, but there is a common need for the situation in the employment offices atp. And we were told that if they were to report every insult that they were often insulted, they would actually do nothing else. So many introductions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u3	Thank you and please take the floor of the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Michálek. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present the report on House press number 84, which is the amendment proposed by Members of the TOP 09 to the Act on certain offences, to Act No. 251/2016 Sb. Specifically, as has already been said here, this applies to Section 5, where Members propose the abolition of an offence with the substance of depreciating the status of an official in the exercise of his authority. So what bothers Members is basically specific protection for officials, based on the fact that general regulation is sufficient to protect them, such as the possibility of punishing it as an insult. To this end, it must be added that it is true that these two provisions, these two facts have a different object - in one case it is the authority of the public authority and, in the case of insult, it is personal dignity. The counter-arguments made by the government, which have been distributed to you as House press 84/1, are based on the fact that the government states that the regulation is too new, that is, it applies for a six-month period, and there are not enough indications to indicate that the regulation is so problematic or defective that it would need to be removed. It also points out that a number of public service employees are exposed to a greater number of conflict situations, whether they are in employment offices or in a similar position, and the fact that they are governed by the law is, according to the government, appropriate for these purposes. After all, I thank the plaintiff that he introduced us to the statistical data, the fact that, for some six months of application of the law, 456 fines were imposed. So this is roughly the extent to which this fact is being applied. Now I'd like to sum it up. Procedural information on the discussion of the House's press 84. The opinion of the Parliamentary Institute on compatibility with EU law - 84 has been drawn up on this. The Government sent a dissenting opinion under 84/1, with the guarantee committee appointed by the Constitutional Committee. So much for my intelligence report, I guess.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before I open the general debate, I note that Mr Jiránek apologizes from the Chamber of Deputies' meeting between 14 and 19 a.m. and from 14 a.m. to the end of the day, for working reasons, Mr Třešňák apologizes. I am now initiating, or opening, more precisely, a general debate. It includes two Members - Mr Pour, Mrs Válková. Mr Pour has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear colleagues, as is customary for me, I will mention a few facts about this amendment. The fact that the offence is a violation of the status of an official in the exercise of his or her authority pursuant to § 5 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) Law No 251/2016 Sb. it appeared in the legal order for the first time on 1 July 2017 in the framework of the beginning of the effectiveness of Act No. 251/2016 Sb. Here I would like to point out, you can see that it came into effect less than a year ago, so it takes a relatively short period of time. According to the explanatory memorandum, this new deed of transgression has been included. Here I would like to quote literally that the purpose was to ensure the protection of interest in maintaining the seriousness and authority of the public authorities, acting through the relevant officials, whether they are police officers, employees of municipal authorities or workers of the labour office, social unions etc. The persons concerned are in intensive contact with the citizens of often problematic behavior and often face insults or attacks on their part, without adequate legal protection. The new reality will be further directed e.g. even the so far difficult to deal with the behaviour of some drivers who falsely accuse an official or a police officer of influencing alcohol or other malfunctioning behaviour in order to avoid control or any other act or merely obstruct. Here I want to stress that the object here is primarily the smooth exercise of public power, not the personality of an official person. The actual nature of the matter is special to the offense of harm to honor. The difference is in the object of the offence, where the object of the offense is the personality of a person and not the proper exercise of public authority. The official person is defined by the provisions of Section 127 of Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, where these are persons holding the functions listed there, if they perform the tasks of the State or the company and use the powers conferred on them to carry out these tasks. [[12.40 hours]] The appellants of the proposal also challenge the wording of the facts consisting of an indefinite legal concept of disregard by the position in which the interpretation of that concept was left to the legislature by the caselaw. According to available scientific literature on this subject, the following forms of infringement will most often be: insults, extradition in mockery, threats, false accusations of unlawful or other malpractice, approval or other gross conduct. It will therefore be a negotiation that goes against the smooth exercise of public power, but its intensity, virtually. the degree of social harm, does not reach the intensity of the crime. In practice, we can encounter such behavior as... This is met by workers of the Labour Office who are newly equipped with security features such as security bulkheads, or police officers or municipal police officers who are often accused of being under the influence of alcohol when dealing with traffic offences, and other patrols or inspection authorities are called to the scene to refute this suspicion. The current legislation also provides for the possibility of facilitating the resolution of procedural problems related to the fact that the attack is no longer directed against a particular official as a person but against the competent authority. The petitioners warn against the risk of abuse of this fact to a personal vendetta. However, so far no reason or case is yet known to corroborate this is known, on the contrary, there are numerous cases where offenders discredit official persons in order to make them unsure or otherwise influence them in the proper exercise of their powers. In my view, therefore, the current regulation meets the needs of the smooth exercise of public power and can be assessed positively. Therefore, I propose rejecting the proposed amendment at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u7	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Válková is also enrolled in the general debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, this was an interpretation worthy of a university professor who tells students why a certain deed substance is enshrined in the law on transgressions, which owes to say in the law a completely new one, adopted after long discussions. I was there during the last parliamentary term in 2016 with a very long time to prepare its application. He became effective on 1 July 2017, or less than three quarters of a year. The German example is not entirely optimal because there, when you take a black tram, you commit a crime - just as an example. They have a completely different hierarchy of criminal offences. I think it's this fact that fits us very well in the law of offense. And the fact that it is not currently being used merely indicates that practice has not had time to get used to it. Otherwise, I also met with those complaints about it, including from fellow citizens, that they were present in official rooms - and Mr. Mayor and Mr. Pour could testify to this - very rough attacks that were not yet qualified as a criminal offence, but it certainly was not a course that we as a state should tolerate. So I wonder why so soon and why, after so long of preparation, we want to cancel something again. This is not really one of the good business cards of the rule of law that we like to brag about. I'm definitely in favour of that rejection. There's nothing political about it. These arguments are purely factual and I will not repeat some of them here, because much better and more systematically from the written speech prepared by Mr Pour, and I can only support them. So I don't see a political reason. The reasons put forward here, I think they can be easily refuted, and they have been refuted. I'm not gonna use the same arguments you just heard. And all I have left - the question of the petitioner, why, in this way, the really insignificant thing - on the contrary, I think we should strengthen the stability of our not-so-stable rule of law - have come up and put forward such a proposal to us. I really didn't believe him after studying it - I couldn't support it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u9	Mr Luzar has entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to repeat what has already been said here, and I am also inclined to reject this proposal. The one problem with this proposal is that I would recommend to the petitioner that, if necessary, add to the explanatory report the opinion of those concerned against whom this regulation was made to protect them. And if I have experience, and I believe that you too are meeting with self-government, you are meeting with city policemen and others, so they have waited a very, very long time for this legal arrangement. And they say that the loss of the dignity of the institutions in that good sense, that when a policeman comes and deals with something against the various people who approach it, let's say, graciously, because what he takes on me when I have nothing anyway, I live somewhere, etc., it turned out to be the engine that led us by the legislator to adopt such legislation. So if we are to have fun with this, then we should also learn how those against whom this law was well accepted should view it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u11	The next enrollment is President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u12	Let me respond... Thank you for the floor. Allow me to respond to my previous speaker. When a judge is insulted by a party to the proceedings and then objects to his bias, given that he has been so badly offended that he must be biased, the decision of such bias always comes down to the point that he is not biased, because the judge is so high that he should be free of such insults. Same thing in this case. Judges and, after the approval of the Service Act, officials and officials are largely protected by a number of processes, tenure, administrative proceedings, in the event that someone wants to dismiss them, and must be sufficiently resistant to the outbursts and insults of those who feel frustrated at the moment and feel that the very officer with whom they negotiate is responsible for their screwed-up life. After all, most of us, colleagues, know this. In my messed-up life, it's not Mr. Zahradník's fault, but if I decide to present it that way, I will present it that way, including the insults that Mr. Zahradník will have to endure. Sorry to borrow you, Mr. Ambassador. It's just a conceptual question. Is there a state for him to serve? Or is it standing here to be a claw? Is there a state here to provide its clients with the best possible service, including the generosity that he sometimes endures any possible disproportionate insult or word and protects his employees with tenure, service laws? Or does he want to become that all-powerful scoundrel who, when someone looks at the chief, is punished with 25 tickets? That's the question. That's what we're dealing with now. That's why we want to cancel this, in our opinion, completely inappropriate paragraph. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u13	With a point of fact, Mr Luzar is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u14	Thank you for the floor, sir. Through you to my colleague Kalousek. I'm sorry he has a messed-up life, like he said here. I suppose he can take care of his own messed-up life and defend himself. And as an Immunity Member, of course, he's equipped for this. There is no need to talk so much about judges and institutions in this area. But this is really about people who are in direct contact with clients. And the client isn't always the good, good, looking for help, but he's often the client he approaches because he's been called to make the client feel bad, to lead him into a legal position and a legal path. And he's often dehonested by that client. [[12.50 hours]] Classical legislation at the time, which was in force, simply set a bureaucratic level of protection for the person to such an extent that these people resigned to their protection, they said, "It's not worth publishing the papers, it's not worth dealing with, because it's not going anywhere anyway. It's just bureaucracy. The legislator tried to deal with this. I would really like to recommend to my colleagues from the TOP 09 that they go to the maid of the city police, especially in Prague, and have fun as it is in real life, in the performance of the service, how they really feel about this need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u15	Thank you. President Stanjura is in the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u16	Thank you for the floor. We're doing this twice. In the last parliamentary term, a majority was found to have introduced this offence. We were against it then, so logically, we're in favour of not having the offense. For those who think the proposal is wrong, try to remember the words Mr Luzar here said. It sounds awful - reducing the dignity of the institutions solves this offence. Once again - reducing the dignity of the institutions. I don't think it's supposed to be in our legal order at all, that it was a mistake, that it even went well. There was a minority at the time, and now we're going to test it if there's still a majority here that was in favour of such a violation. The cast of the benches has changed not only politically but also personnelly, and I think that if we use common sense, we will find that we do not need such an offence. Not really. Yes, sometimes it's extremely difficult. Sometimes it is extremely difficult especially for those ladies, because they are mostly ladies who work in the social department and often face the unsavory behaviour of some - I note some - citizens or some applicants for social benefits, not by far all. But a good combination of organizational, security measures can solve this town hall to avoid endangering these workers, and at the same time not to have such a clause and such an offence that threatens to be abused in cases where the official is a citizen, who is from his point of view, for example. Intrusive, constantly demanding something, so the line is very thin, when I actually committed insults to such an organ. So I don't think this proposal was meant to be made at all, and here's a chance for us to - and I see it as a mistake - the last Chamber of Deputies, but also the Senate, because the Senate approved the law and signed the President of the Republic to correct it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u17	With a factual point, Mrs Procházková and President Kalousek are now registered. Mrs Procházková has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u18	Good noon, everyone. I would like to say one thing to you, to those who want to abolish this law or correct it. Try to sit in the ambulance I work in. Try it on. I'd be in favour of tightening up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u19	Thank you. President Kalousek and his point of order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u20	To express my previous speaker. The law we're discussing doesn't apply to emergency personnel, it applies to officials. But I apologize to Mr Luzar for perhaps choosing too sophisticated a way of expressing myself, so I will try to be very simple. It's about our vision of the world. Do we see the state and the state apparatus as a service and service or as a drab? If we see him as a drone, and I understand Mr Luzar, he has never seen him otherwise, then of course we insist that there must be draconian punishments for something that can be construed subjectively as an insult. If we see him as a service and service, the one who provides the service and service should be to the extent of the amount and to the extent of the generous, so the attack will pass and act according to the law. And those who argue physical assault, and I don't doubt that something like this happens sometimes at the counters, so we're already going to confront the criminal code, and that's true. We don't want to abolish the crime of assaulting an official, assaulting a public figure. All we want to do is cancel the nonsense that only a crooked look and a smirk and a spit or maybe not a completely decent word to interpret as an insult that will be fined. It just doesn't belong in a modern liberal society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u21	The following are the factual remarks made by Mr Válek and Mrs Procházková. Before Mr Válek arrives, I will inform you that Mrs Valachová will vote with replacement card number 5. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, please excuse the President's old man, who does not fully know the law and is surprised that it concerns (?) paramedics and paramedics, like someone said, because I'd love that. Unlike most of you, I spend quite a lot of time on this urgent income, and unfortunately, by feminizing the health sector, what's going on there, the pressures, the aggression these nurses are exposed to, no one can imagine. I've been picking up four patients in the last three months on urgent reception who came in with a gun in my pocket. And we don't have any police, we don't have security to keep an eye on those sisters. Well, thank you for this law, if that's what you mean. I'd like that very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u23	Mrs Procházková withdraws her factual point. Is anyone else reporting for the general debate, please? It's not like that. I'm asking for final words. Mr Feri as a representative of the plaintiffs, his final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll take it very quickly so we can still make it. There's one thing I have to mention. We have great respect for all those who work in demanding exposed environments who deal with people stressed out, people aggressive and who actually serve as a lightning rod, such as distrust of the system, disapproval of the system. It's not like we want to tie their hands in any way. But when they're protected by other institutes, even in the same law, we don't see why this fact should be there. Another reaction to Mrs. Válková, why we're coming up with this now. This is because the House press 906, which was in the last House, was submitted 13. 9. 2016, 14. 10. the Government adopted an opinion on him and since then he has been lying here, dusting on him, not being discussed, and then, of course, he fell under the table with the elections. So that's why we're coming up with this. Finally, let me quote the 2004 Supreme Court judicature: "If a public official is exposed to verbal expressions of even unsubstantiated discontent, and these speeches cannot be subordinated to those provisions which generally protect the honor, reputation and reputation of all natural persons, his professionalism includes the ability to cope with such expressions. " Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u25	Thank you. I ask if the rapporteur is interested in the final word. ano, he does. Mr Michálek, who is rapporteur for first reading. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to recapitulate the debate. There was a motion to reject it at first reading. On one side, she was criticized... [[Noise in the hall.]] Mr President, please...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u27	Yes. Please, ladies and gentlemen, calm down so that we can finish discussing this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u28	Thank you. Today, there has been criticism of the insignificance, or questioning the usefulness of this proposal, whether there is any point in discussing it at all. On the other hand, the appellants, on the other hand, question whether it makes sense for such a provision to be part of our legal order. However, there have been no examples of abuse of this power, which would probably be appropriate if this claim is part of the explanatory report, while the examples of attacks on those who perform the public service are also publicly known in the media. [[13.00 hours]] I think and dare to question a little of the claim made here by Mr Kalousek that the solution is the generosity of the officials. When I think that Mr Kalousek, when he was offended, was making a statement to the mandate and immunity committee and demanding fines, it seems somewhat inadequate to me that he is now using the argument against those who carry out the public service. I think it is relevant what has been said here by some Members that a number of people, for example, in the field of health services, are under attack by some clients who attack them in a rather brutal way, and since they are doing this community service, there is no adequate protection here. However, as rightly said, this is not the subject of this law. I would recommend rejecting the proposal in line with what has been said here from most of the political spectrum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u29	The President Kalousek shall report with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u30	Just very briefly, and I'm sorry. However, if the rapporteur says that I have, in the past, referred to the mandate and immune committee and demanded fines, he simply lies stupidly and rudely, as he often does. Sometimes I smack somebody in the face, that's true. But I've never sought a fine, and I've never invoked a mandate and an immune committee. I hope you'll apologize, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u31	Well, ladies and gentlemen, the final words have been spoken. I propose that we deal with this point by voting on what has been said here as a proposal. As the rapporteur has also summed up, a proposal was tabled here in the general debate to reject the proposal at first reading, which Mr Pour presented and to which other speakers also signed up. We will therefore now vote on this proposal, i.e. on the proposal to reject it at first reading. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 50: 131 Members registered, for 92, against 23, the proposal was adopted. This means that this proposal was rejected at first reading. I am, of course, done discussing this point, and I am ending the morning meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We'll meet again at 2:30 p.m. during the oral questioning. Enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-12-ps2017-012-03-004-018.u32	So it's 2:30 p.m., hello, everyone. The next item is oral questioning, which is addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government.
