ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended /German press 120/6/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with an amendment; we received its resolution as House press 120/7. Once again, I welcome Senator Vystrčil and I ask that Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová speak for the plaintiff for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendment tabled. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, allow me to introduce the 120/6 House press, which is the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Pension Insurance returned to the Senate with a single amendment. The amendment to the Senate substantially amends the conditions for granting an increase in pensions of CZK 1000 per month, as the condition to reach the age of 85 is abolished and replaces the condition that 25 years have elapsed since the first instalment of the pension paid to the consumer. I have serious reservations about this proposed change, which stems from a consistent analysis carried out by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in cooperation with the Czech Social Security Administration, particularly as regards technological security for raising pensions. Briefly: In the following hours you will decide who will actually receive a pension, when he will receive it, and this often mentions the collapse of the pension scheme's payout, and whether this decision will be fair. Now, however, allow me to present individual reasons. Firstly, why we are against the House version. According to the government bill, an increase of CZK 1 000 would be granted to all current pensioners who had reached 85 years of age, while according to the Senate version, only 97 percent of pensioners over 85 would receive an increased pension. So we would punish those who have remained on the labour market longer, and I think that is very unfair. Two. The Senate amendment was justified in particular by the need to reward women who have spent their entire lives caring and raising their children with an increased pension. I believe that getting an increased pension of a thousand crowns 25 years after these women retire is not a system solution. I believe that the issue of lower pensions - and I note that women have a lower pension of one fifth in the Czech Republic - needs to be dealt with systemically and from the start of retirement. I also believe that this measure should be part of the pension reform. Three. The amendment extends twice, i.e. for a total of 400,000 people, the circuit that will receive the increase. Since it applies to consumers of all pensions without regard to their age and type of pension, this entitlement would also lead to the fact that younger pensioners would also be entitled to a thousand crowns. Let me illustrate this on specific examples. For example, an increase would be received by a working disability pensioner for first-degree disability, at the lowest level of invalidity, where a reduction of at least 35 per cent in working capacity is sufficient and where, therefore, additional gainful activity is expected at the age of 50 if he were to be granted that pension at the age of 25. That means he should have a grand extra for that, for example. a 50-year-old who receives the lowest degree of disability pension. This has no logical and factual justification. At a high age, an increase in that 85-year-old would not belong to a senior, but a 50-year-old disability at a much lower age, and the ability to work and the ability to take care of himself would belong to an increase. That's really very unsystemic. Fourth reason I support the government's version of the proposal. According to the newly proposed transitional provision, the increase for pensioners who have fulfilled the conditions laid down is due from the repayment of the pension due in January 2019 without an application. However, I warn - because pension payers do not register the first instalment of the pension because the law and pension system do not know this term, we cannot automatically implement the increase in January. This means that the pension payers will have to assess each case of the pension paid individually, i.e. assess each individual pension file separately, and manually. This is not electrified information. The increase will in no way be possible to be paid in the statutory term in January 2019. This will also mean that pension payers will not prosecute within the given time limits or routine pension claims, for example when reaching retirement age. For your information, the Czech Social Security Administration issues more than 330,000 decisions a year. If he had passed the Senate proposal, we would have to issue another 400,000 decisions to raise pensions by a thousand crowns in the next few weeks. If pension payers have to individually assess for each insured person the entitlement to an increase of CZK 1000 under the terms of the amendment, this burden cannot be objectively managed and we believe that the pension system will collapse. In conclusion, then, let me ask you to approve the bill, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies, which has been passed on to the Senate. I am therefore expressing a fundamental dissenting position on the amendment, for both factual and legal reasons, which I have just given up, and which I believe you will carefully and objectively consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. Now, to be correct, President Gazdík has previously applied with priority rights, but only as the first one in the debate do I understand this correctly? President Stanjura has come forward before the debate. So now, Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, good day, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I think we should have a rational debate, which, of course, we are prepared for, so I think we should put the facts on the table first, and then try to interpret them and either agree or disagree on these facts. That is why I came forward so early, and I would like the Minister to answer some basic questions that are actually affecting this bill, because the answer also depends on how we will proceed in the final vote. [[10.40 hours]] The first question is how does the government - and I know it wasn't there, that she inherited it - but how does the government or today's secretary justify the age of 85. That there's an age of 85. He says it's fair. I don't know, is there an analysis that says 85 is fairer than 84 or 80? So the first question is, how did the government come up with number 85, if there's any analysis, where does that come from? The second question - and it is not surprising, because I know that my fellow Senators have also asked the Czech Social Security Administration or the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs directly: how many pensioners are involved in the approved government version - we can even read this in the explanatory statement, so let us take it as verified - and how many pensioners are involved in the Senate version. I've heard how unfair it is here, because 3%, says the secretary, is the one who's 85, not 25 years retired. But he forgets about 140 grand. people who aren't in the government's proposal at all. So if we come out that the government version says it's about 195 grand. pensions to which their proposal relates, approximately 60 thousand are rounded up. men and less than 140 thousand. Women, 3 percent of which is about 6,000. Pensioners. [[The secretary is communicating from the bench off the microphone.]] You said 3, Madam Secretary, a moment ago, if you say 5%, well... 3 %5 thousand. [[Communication outside the microphone to MP Stanjure.]] So I assumed that 200 thousand per cent is 2,000. And 3 percent is 6,000, but okay, 5,000 or 6,000, let's not argue. The Senate proposal increases the pension of approximately 140 thousand, in principle to women, according to the numbers given by MPSV or ČSSS. [[to say Czech Social Party]] So the fact that it's minus 6,000, but plus 140 thousand, the secretary deduces that it's unfair. Well, I don't know. If I take the sum of these people, I think it's fairer the plus 134 if I say the numbers exactly, but I'd like to ask the secretary how many men and women are involved in the Senate version. I would like to ask because it is actually a matter of 1933 and older people, how many of them actually joined the pension after 1993 and those who joined later whether they are those who have a higher pension than average or lower. In my experience, so most of those who stayed longer were those who had a more qualified job were more important, e.g. Managers, positions. Those aren't the ones who are primarily with the lowest pensions these days. I believe such an analysis exists. So the six or five thousand. The people involved have how much pension today? We should know that before we decide whether or not to add the thousand crowns, because the government proposal, or the House version, to be precise, and the Senate version is consistent that it does not take into account the current pension rate of a particular pensioner. There's another condition. Either 85 years or 25 years retired. The Minister is shaking his head, so I did not find there that the proposal by the House or Senate version is linked to the current pension. Maybe I'm wrong, you say it's not there, but I don't think there's any condition, there's either age or length of retirement. I find it comical when the state, even according to the SAO's opinion, spent billions and billions on information systems so that someone would seriously claim to me in 2018 that the IT system does not know the date of retirement! If so, then it's the fatal failure of those who bought the IT systems there. Does it seem normal to you in 2018, that we don't know when someone retired? Madam Secretary says it would have to be done individually. I don't agree, I don't think it's such a big software modification. Maybe by being an original professional programmer, but testing one date and deciding yes or no, plus a thousand, or plus zero, it's not that complicated, and it's not a million or tens of millions contract. It's quite trivial. If it's true the systems won't allow it. Next question... It's complicated when the secretary doesn't hear the questions... What is the average length of receiving an old-age pension in the Czech Republic? If the secretary says the answer, you'll understand the logic of the Senate version proposal. If you don't care, of course you can technocratically say - it doesn't really matter, our system won't allow it. The Senate proposal is based on parameters of help especially for women who spent the vast majority of their productive working life in the communist era and did not have and could not have a real chance to earn and earn a high pension. Madam Secretary says it's not systemic. Well, it's not. Let's not argue. But better than nothing and better later than never. Madam Secretary says to these women who could receive a thousand crowns a month from January: Dear ladies, you are retired for 20 years, I see the big problem that you have low pensions, you could receive a thousand crowns a month more, but no, dear ladies, I have a better solution for you, we will work on this systemically and come up with a great pension reform. - The question is when. When the government comes with it, for what reform it will receive political support in both chambers. Once again, the Minister, when answering this question, should state the average period of retirement pensions and say when it will estimate when it would push, when pension reform could be approved, who really from existing women who receive these low pensions could be involved and who unfortunately no longer. So it's all excuses. Madam Secretary forgot to say the main reason. The main lack of a Senate proposal. And it's clear - no one came up with it from the CSSD or the YES movement. And that's not forgiven.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. President Okamura and then Mr Gazdík with priority rights. Let me remind you, I have not yet opened up the debate and there are no technical comments, only factual remarks. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, less than two months ago, in this Chamber, you approved 130 out of 132 Members present a pension amendment, which envisages an annual increase of CZK 918 a month, i.e. CZK 11 016 a year, and which, moreover, brings another thousand crowns a month to seniors over 85 years. It seemed that the highest ever increase in pensions did not prevent so much, and although as Minister of Finance I fully perceive the weight of 38 billion. I left the hall with the impression that something undoubtedly good, useful and necessary had succeeded. I have no doubt that the vast majority of you have taken such feelings, because of the 130 Members of Parliament and the Members who voted in favour of the Government's proposal, there is a majority here today. The vote on the form of pensions is undoubtedly one of the most exposed moments of the House of Deputies' negotiations. It is not so often that decisions made in this hall have such an immediate, understandable, easily quantified and relatively rapid impact on the standard of living of millions of citizens, seniors living in the Czech Republic. Each of us is in this respect in a natural conflict of interest, because each of us will confess to his parents, grandparents, neighbors, or friends who are among the 2.5 miles. those whose monthly income you will vote on. [[10.50 hours]] Maybe it's the focus lenses, the extraordinary exposure to the subject, the opportunity to be there is the real reason we're meeting over the same novel after less than two months. I wish we could leave this hall today with the fact that we did not at first glance succumb to the delightful legislative creativity and the government amendment was preserved in the form in which it went to the Senate, which returned it here with a proposal for a few major modifications. However, the adoption of these adjustments would lead to a solution that is very difficult to implement, more expensive and, above all, less - I repeat - to a less fair one. Why is it difficult to implement a solution? The Senate amendment has legislative shortcomings and is, in principle, impermissible. The decisive moment for the creation of a pension entitlement of another thousand crowns according to the Senate proposal is 25 years from the first instalment of the pension, without any clarification. On the contrary, the government's proposed border is based on the elderly's age, namely 85 years of age. The fundamental difference from the point of view of implementation is that, while the age of seniors is in the IT system of MPSV used for pension payments by the monitored variable, the resetting of which is possible to generate the relevant file, the first instalment of the pension in the current system is not the monitored variable, and therefore, according to this parameter, it is not possible to search, as the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs said. This is not an indistinguishable trifle, but an ill-conceived consequence of the legislator's creativity, which would result in the workers of the Czech Social Security Administration having to go through millions of individual files and search this date manually. And if the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs considers this issue to be so serious that it would lead - I quote - to the collapse of a pension system that would affect both the handling of new pension applications and the application for adjustments, I believe that it is appropriate to pay attention and to consider whether it will help our seniors to agree more with the government's draft, which has already been approved by the Chamber of Deputies. However, these serious technical problems are not the main reason why we cannot speak, or I hope you will not say yes to the proposed changes. This is not even a budgetary impact, which would represent roughly an increase of CZK 2 billion, and I say this also knowing that two billion are not such a small sum that can be attributed to the administrative expenditure of the state budget by waving the pen. So I will move on to the most important thing that today's discussion should be about. The Senate's proposal is less fair than the House's approved text. In some cases, it would really be very difficult to justify social situations and distortion. The government's aim from the outset is to compensate the oldest pensioners for the increased cost of living, which naturally comes with a higher age, such as transport or medical care costs. That is why we have proposed increasing old-age pensions by a thousand crowns a month to all seniors over 85 years of age. On the other hand, the Senate proposal quite illogically and unsystemically wants an increase of CZK 1000 for those who have passed since the first instalment of the pension for more than 25 years. For example, there would be punishment for all who worked or worked longer after they reached retirement age and thus contribute more money to the system and benefit from it for a shorter period of time, i.e. all those who decided to postpone their retirement. Clearly, the Senate proposal supports precisely the opposite thinking and behaviour of citizens than the state it wants to motivate. According to the amendment, all pensioners should be monitored only by a period that has elapsed since the first instalment and do not distinguish the type of increased pension. For example, a 45-year-old first-degree invalidity pension beneficiary granted to him at the age of 20 would receive an increase. On the contrary, many would have reached a much higher age than 85 years of age to increase. Let me give you an example from practice and life. He approached me with his letter to a citizen who was 91 years old. Since he worked under 68 years of age, he wouldn't have reached a thousand crowns to raise. It is precisely the person who needs these funds most, because, as we know, the cost of medicines in particular is generally increasing radically at such an advanced age. It is up to each of us to answer the question of how much such an amendment has to do with the declared justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that everyone wishes the most worthy conditions for our fellow citizens of retirement age. Many of our pensioners give most of their pension to medicines and rent, and then they don't have enough money left to satisfy the basic needs of life. In doing so, he deserves a dignified life for his life's work and care for his family and loved ones. The path proposed by the government, i.e. valorization of CZK 918 on average, means almost twice as much valorization as in 2018, it was CZK 475, three times more valorization than it happened on 1 January 2017, it was CZK 308, and, to remind you, 25 times as much valorization as the Nečasův government had taken since 1 January 2014, it was CZK 45. It's the right, responsible, fair and functional path. It is a path that has not been sewn with a hot needle, which none of us need to be ashamed of, and which is not just the cheap gesture that may at first glance take hold of, but leaves more bitterness than the real good. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. I will repeat again that we are actually before the rapporteur's comments. However, everyone with priority rights, of course, has the right to perform. Now Mr Okamura's priority right, then Mr Gazdík, and then Mr Stanjura let the Minister in front of him. So now, Mr. Okamura. Mr. Gazdík will be ready, then Madam Secretary. Let me read your apologies. For family reasons Martin Kolovratník apologizes. He apologizes for no reason, Mrs Pavla Golasowská. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that today, in the House, we are reunited with the proposal that is fundamentally based on the SPD programme, namely the proposal to increase pensions by a fixed amount. Members of the SPD will support the Senate version by adding more seniors. Worse, though, others are concerned about raising pensions only to those who have reached 85 years of age or also to those who are retired for 25 years. We at the SPD are for every increase in pension. But of course, as usual, when two do the same, it doesn't have to be the same. The SPD proposes to introduce a minimum pension of minimum wage, which means this year it would be, for example, CZK 12,200, and from this amount on merit, for all types of pensioners, even for those disabled who still live in poverty literally as beggars. What we want is for the lowest pensions to rise in the first place. Of course, I'm talking about decent people, not those who were capable of working at a working age and didn't work on purpose in the long term. Our movement Freedom and direct democracy is one of the key problems of ensuring a decent life for people who have worked their entire productive age and therefore have paid taxes and insurance to the state. Today, hundreds of thousands of pensioners are in poverty, whose pensions are objectively insufficient to meet the basic needs of life. I repeat, to the basic needs of life - i.e. rent, energy, services, food and health costs. Even more difficult is the situation of seniors who lose their life mates. Perhaps all the governments of the past have declared an interest in the implementation of pension reform, but it has always been only words and actions that have been lacking. Let's look at the statistics. Statistically, they have the lowest pensions called. Old-timers. This difference, i.e. that the elders have less money, was taken care of by the ODS government for ministering to Mr. Vodička. Thanks to the poorly set system of valorization, which was not solved by other governments of ČSSD, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and others, the difference between pensions grew with years. Thanks to preventive increases, the most money was added to those who had the most money, and the least money was received by those who had the smallest pensions. This absurd system continues to this day, even though after our old-fashioned call for correction, they occasionally add a fixed amount to the elderly. Valorisation of pensions is unsystemic and unpredictable, unfortunately this is the current situation, it depends only on the mood of politicians, and they are, of course, stupid and unfair. [[11.00 hours]] We in the SPD are promoting change and asking for clear pension reform. During the last parliamentary term, we tried in vain, but the total incompetence of then Minister Marksová proved to be ČSSD, who first assembled a pension committee to prepare and discuss the reform, but this committee was unable to reach any conclusion and eventually fell apart. I will remind you that it was during the reign of the ANO, the CSSD and the KDU-ČSL movement, and thus the total inability of these three parties to resolve the issue of low pensions has been fully demonstrated. What we should be looking for is to increase the lowest pensions in the first place, and the key to raising pensions should not only be the age or time spent in retirement, but also the pension, not only the old-age but also the disabled. Despite the tradition experienced, an old-age pension is, in principle, a social benefit guaranteed by the State, and its purpose is to ensure that people have a dignified old age. That is why the principle of merit today has its limits. The amount of the pension is not only based on the former pensioner's income, but primarily on the state's options, because the State is paying it and will pay it from what it has, and the task of the state is to guarantee people at least a decent life so that people have to live, eat, heat and medicines. Millions of people live here from day to day. They don't have a chance to insure themselves, they don't have a chance to invest. These people - salesmen, postmen, nurses, but also librarians, janitors, thousands of people in workers' professions, culture and other underfunded areas - make a lot of money, but they give our country a hell of a lot! Today and every day, they exaggerate this country and work for all of us. As a reward, and I say this in quotation marks, they have the lowest pensions and stupid bullshit of many politicians that they can insure themselves. And all the other policies proposed by the pseudo-reform of the pension system are based on the crazy assumption that people simply pay their pension. They won't, because there are hundreds of thousands of people who work honestly every day, raise children, and live on the edge of their income. It's the other way around. There is a major social disaster ahead. For example, when they retire, tradesmen will start leaving in larger quantities, so-called The self-employed who paid their legal minimum. A large part of them - small craftsmen, laborers - have no savings and the pension that awaits them will not be enough for them to eat, let alone live. In this respect, much more must be done than just now and there before the elections to add two thousand hundred-year-olds and a thousand crowns to the 58-year-old seniors. What about it? As I have already said, the SPD proposes to introduce a minimum pension of minimum wage, which means, for example, this year it would be CZK 12,200 of the minimum pension and from this amount on merit, for all types of pensioners, i.e. for disabled people. And I repeat, I'm talking about decent people, not those who were working at a working age and didn't work on purpose in the long term. Where do you get it? The state has to learn how to make money. Let's look at Budvar, and maybe OKD made Mr. Bakal a hundred billion dollars. The money could have cost. Every day the Czech Republic is being sucked out by multinational companies that divert billions abroad, and government politicians refuse to do anything about it and cry in front of people that there is no money. Hundreds of millions also flow into political nonprofits that have zero benefits. Another billions of the state is losing its poor management in ministries. These are the findings of the Supreme Audit Office. For example, only in a few IT contracts examined at least 1.3 billion. Kroner awarded for Secretary Marksová from ČSSD to MPSV comes the state due to poorly closed IT contracts every day by a million crowns. And the ex-minister has no direct material responsibility. This is what we call for in the SPD - the direct substantive responsibility of those who manage public funds. Yes, the Czech Republic is rich, but multinational companies and others are pulling billions out of it, and instead of the government making sure that this money stays with citizens, so that the state can ensure a decent life for old people, disabled people and other decent needy people, families with children, we are begging for subsidies in Brussels, which will eventually be taken apart only by the rich. Firms in the Czech Republic, the state and our citizens can earn decent pensions. The problem is that in today's reality of the EU, we earn a decent pension for Němec, Francouz and others who do not work more than Čech and Moravák, but are lucky that their companies and countries can make money from the work of people in the Czech Republic. And that is a hard economic fact that we should do something about, and we should be aware and we should first of all be aware of it by our dear, literally dear, climb-skelelists. Our SPD movement is promoting steps that will lead to adjustments to the shortcomings of the current system. Above all, we refuse to question the fundamental role of the first pillar of the pension system. It must ensure the guarantee of a decent life for people with the lowest pension. In order to do so, its possible multi-source financing is necessary. The lowest pension is essential for assessing the life situation of pensioners and the quality of the pension system. We are in favour of a high level of social solidarity in the first pillar and I believe that this principle is also accepted by people with higher income. Again, the SPD wants to enforce the principle that the lowest pension must be tied firmly to the minimum wage. In both cases, this is a similar social guarantee for the state, and I hope that we will convince you, too, of the members of other political parties, to help us enforce this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u9	President Gazdík, after whom Minister Maláčová, will now speak with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u10	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we are meeting for an extraordinary meeting of the House on a very serious matter. Things that affect both the poorest and the weakest, which are citizens of retirement age, will, in many cases, affect future generations. It is good that we have come to a proposal that will actually add significantly to pensioners during economic growth. And I would like to thank the senators who also came up with the amendment, because from my point of view, and the STAN will raise his hand for him, unanimously the Senate proposal is much fairer. It is much fairer especially to women. Whoever knows the elderly women in their neighborhood knows that, on the one hand, they live to an average age higher than we men, and at the very older age, they are much worse off than the remaining group of pensioners. I am very surprised that it is not for this change that two women in the government - the Minister - both the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of Finance - are coming for this change. I would still understand the Minister of Finance, because it really is two billion on top, but it's kind of a real, even small, correction of the injustice that has been committed against retired women for many years. Madam Secretary, while he is new to the government, working and social affairs, he uses the same arguments as most: when we do not want something, we say that we will prepare a new solution, a more systemic solution, better - and my many years of experience from the House is that nothing will happen. There will be no solution, and 99 percent of the cases will not occur. We are at a time when there is record low unemployment, so far the economy has grown recordlessly, and this has for the first time in many years caused both surplus and pension accounts. However, this increase in the pension account may not last forever due to very low unemployment and economic growth. And anyone who knows a little bit of economic cycles knows that it will certainly not last forever, and I don't want to be a bad prophet, but maybe soon it will not really be a surplus. What we starosta are demanding is that the government come up with not the system solution, but the real pension reform. The previous government canceled one pension reform. She promised to make a replacement for her on that committee. It didn't happen. Even Minister Babiš, Prime Minister Babiš today, once promised to come up with his pension reform solution within six months. We haven't seen her yet. There is not much that I agree with Mr Okamura, but there is one thing he has said that I agree with him. There is indeed a great social disaster ahead. My generation of 40-year-olds and a generation of 30-year-olds, when you take the numbers of people in that generation, is a great disaster, and the government seems to want to push it away sometime, when it will not interest her at all, when every other government will only deal with it much worse and worse. And that is why I ask you, Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs, and you, Prime Minister, what is the deadline for presenting pension reform to the House? Please tell us the date when you want to present this pension reform in this parliamentary term - clearly and specifically! Please, when is it? Is it in a month? Six months? A year? Will we be able to approve it during this parliamentary term? [[11.10 hours]] And then I want to ask you one more thing. There was a pension reform that the government of Petr Nečas pushed through in the House, and then another government came and canceled it without compensation. Please, let's discuss this pension reform. Invite the opposition, which is today's opposition, but next time may be a government coalition, contribute to the discussion. Because what the pension system needs most is stability. And there's no way one government is trying to implement something and another is interrupting it. That is why I am calling you, let us deal with these questions together with the opposition. We mayors are always ready for this. And again, Prime Minister or Madam Secretary, please, what is the deadline for the House's pension reform? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. With priority rights now, Minister Maláčová, after which with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I think that here - through Mr President to President Stanjuru - apples and pears are mixed together and that there are numbers that are not connected here. Therefore, I would like to structure the debate and draw attention to the fact that IT systems at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs are functional. But what happened? Senators misjudged concepts, invented new concepts, and instead of starting to work with concepts that our IT systems normally work with, such as the pension return date, they invented the date of the first pension payment. This needs to be set straight. When I want to change the complete system in some way, there would be nothing easier than to come to the Czech Social Security Administration, ask what terms it works with, and then take 25 years away from these concepts. That would be a very simple solution, functional, and then no one could say a word. Second thing. The government's proposal is fairer, I've already mentioned it. It has been developed since the age of 85, because it is an age limit, when even by international standards people need more care, they have more costs and costs for medical aids and also medicines. And, of course, it's an age group of residents, the so-called old-timers. Next thing. I very much appreciate the fact that the ODS has discovered social sensitivity and takes care of our pensioners. Too bad she didn't act like that when she was in government responsibility. So I'd sum it up. The intention was good, unfortunately it's misspelled. The Senate amendment is unfair to those who have worked longer, does not address the status of women and their lower pensions and may cause pension payments to collapse for all pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u13	Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u14	Madam Secretary's in office for a few days, but she's been acting as an experienced politician. Note that I have given her five specific questions - and how many answers have we learned? Zero. But he takes care of my political party's policy. But why not? Maybe half the answer why 85 years and why not 84. Even by international comparison. What kind? Where's some statistics where there's a study, why is 85 fairer than 84? I don't understand. The number of women involved, the 25 years -- you said it was just about the old folks. So, Madam Secretary, those who are retired for 25 years aren't old-timers? Aren't old-timers the ones who retired in 1993? Not according to what you said. The Secretary of Finance is leaving. It's such a shame. She said a few things here. [[The secretary is coming back.]] I'm glad she changed her mind. Thank you, Madam Secretary. One of the arguments that fell in the Senate was the budgetary implications and I am glad that we agree with the Minister that the budgetary impact is not significant at the moment. An increase from 9 per cent to 10 per cent of the basic retirement income has a much larger budgetary impact. So I'm glad it fell. But both Madam Secretary here said a sentence that isn't true. I'd like them to explain it to me. The secretary of finance said the pensioners have a lot of expenses for the medical bills. Madam Secretary of Finance, can you tell us how much is the maximum annual supplement for seniors over the age of 65 a year and how much is over the age of 70? That's a rhetorical question. Over 70 years is 500 crowns a year. And about this, about the 500 crowns a year, the Minister of Finance will say very seriously in the debate on pensions, that it is one of the important parts of senior spending, 500 crowns a year over the age of 70. And I'm sure the Senate's proposal concerns seniors over the age of 70. I'm not questioning the fact that these seniors have health problems and have to take on health care. But that's a long time ago treated, so don't say they have high costs when it's just not true. 500 crowns a year may seem a lot to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, but this is not relevant in this debate. Then I learned here from both ministers how to work and social affairs - and this is especially spicy - how unfair it is that the senators propose to someone who is in disability retirement, he is 45 years old, adding a thousand crowns that it is unfair. Really? Those who are disabled are not those whose circumstances do not wish to have higher incomes? We're supposed to tell them it's unfair when they're 25 years in disability? I wouldn't change with them, they still have a hard life. And to say that they're going to raise their pension by a thousand crowns, that it's unfair? To who, to what? If it's not budgetaryly significant, according to the Ministry of Finance. Those are incredible sentences. Because they're looking for substitute arguments. Millions of files will have to be hand-tapped by social security officials. That's just not true. I'll overlook the fact that it can be customized with software. I'll come out of the assumptions that both the secretary calls. We have IT systems for billions, but we can't do it, we have to do it manually. But they're not millions. There's a 25-year pension probation. And don't tell me there aren't any files on the individual retirees. Don't we keep files for individual retirees? Well, we keep the files, don't we? So they're not all pensioners. All those who are 24 years old and less retired are not concerned. And most of them are. So let's use rational arguments. But I haven't heard any yet except that the IT systems - and your party colleague, former Secretary Marksová, have been telling us for years how she put all the systems together after the Drábek guy who couldn't. She's got it together for the last four years. Everything! Then I will read the SAO's report, which is a bit different, in which, by the way, a former member of social democracy is also in charge, so hard to blame anyone for being political. And all of a sudden, I hear it's impossible that the IT system can't do it. But that's a really trivial thing. And if he can't do it, I'm sure it'll be in the program by the end of the year. So if we sum it up. The budgetary implications are about 2 billion, which is not a negligible amount in the budget, but an amount that the budget will manage. So far, if you look at the government's working versions of the state budget, you're going to take the job and look at the eKLEP, so roughly 100 billion increases the estimated revenue, so far. I agree that this is a proposal, but I'm sure it won't be 10 billion in negotiations. Rather, I think that the government will use standard methods to keep up with the planned deficit and at the same time satisfy some ministries. Then, until 30 September, they'll increase the revenue estimate to say yes, and we've kept up with the 50-billion-dollar deficit. But we'll see. Maybe I'm wrong and maybe I'll be pleasantly surprised. Then we learned that it was unfair because we would help disabled pensioners who have been in disability retirement for 25 years. Then we learned it wasn't fair. That it will mainly affect women, but that next time it will be better and more systemic. [[11.20 hours]] And I'll repeat the questions, Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs. What is the average duration of the old-age pension? How many pensioners, men and women, are involved in the House's version and Senate version? And what makes you think that if a thousand crowns are added to about 140 to 160,000 seniors, it's unfair? So the less we add, the fairer it is? The narrower that group of people will be... The Minister of Finance fought here as if someone had suggested rejecting the House version. The Senate version improves the House version. I didn't notice that any club announced that if the Senate doesn't pass, they wouldn't support the House. You're right. The majority was really significant. Bigger than constitutional. And you also forgot to say, I think it should be recalled that similar proposals, 25 years or 20 years, have been voted as amending. And there were a few votes missing, less than ten, to make those amendments... And we've been lecturing them in the House, but at the same time we said that if they don't pass, it doesn't mean we won't support the rest. That's true today. So it's not true, as the Treasury Secretary said here, that a record increase is at risk. It's not. It's either going to be about 200,000 people, the extra thousand crowns, or 350,000. That's what we're talking about. We're not talking about an increase from 9 to 10 percent of the base area. That was accepted by the vast majority of the House. The Senate accepted it. So it's not at risk. Instead of 85 years, I think it's a fairer proposal approved by the Senate. We didn't get the numbers from the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. She knows it's unfair, and she's not capable or willing... She's capable, she's not willing to say the numbers on the microphone. Well, I'm gonna ask you a second time. Why 85 years? General - wait till you put it politely so I can use an inconclusive word, slangs. The general claim that, according to international comparisons, this is the right time is not enough for me. All I need is a reference to them by some World Bank study or something. I'll look it up later, see if the seniors are still okay in '84. Or a lady who retired at 53 years old, 25 years old, is 78 years old, and she's fine. And it's not fair to add it, as the Senate suggests. On the other hand, a man in his 65th management position has a highly above-average pension, plus a thousand crowns a month against this woman. And that's fair. Well, it seems preposterous to me. I don't know about you. I think so, but if they think about it and the government or the Social Democrats come up with it, the Minister is defending it. And he says how fair it is. Because at the same time, there is a problem that women have lower pensions, and I agree that the problem is that they have lower wages, of course, that's logical, but for those ladies who are already in that pension, we can't solve that by dealing with the remuneration of those who work today. But, ladies, wait, Madam Secretary will sometimes come up with a system solution in the context of pension reform. You won't grieve with a promise, but it's useless for these ladies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. We're not yet in the debate to get to her... So far, only colleagues and colleagues with priority rights have spoken. To get to it, I ask whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Jan Bauer at this stage, wants to comment on the amendment tabled by the Senate. He is not interested, he will not speak up in the debate. I am asking the same question to the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, who has also dealt with this, Mr Kamal Farhan, whether he wants to speak at this stage. It's not like that. So I can open the debate, which is what I am doing. And in the debate, Senator Miloš Vystrčil will be the first to speak. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u16	Mr Prime Minister, Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for the extensive entrée, but you have not simplified my role. In the beginning, I'm going to say one thing, which I may repeat several times. Whoever votes for the Senate bill will support those or most of those who have the lowest pensions today. Lowest pension. Whoever votes in favour of the government's version of the law, out of the group of those who have the lowest pensions, will remove some 130,000 retired mothers who have the lowest pensions in this country at all. Let us be clear about what we are talking about and what we are going to vote on. And now for some arguments. When we got a government version of the law to the Senate, we also discussed what Mr Stanjura, the President of the Civic Democrat Parliamentary Club, said here. Why 85 years? It is so that there is no rational real reason. Nowhere did I find a study that those who are 85 or 86 years old already need social services and have to pay more and those who are 84 or 83 years old that they no longer need them. That's different. This matter, how and how intensively needs social services or health care, is to be dealt with by laws and rules relating to those services and their subsidies. We've been working on that. And to solve this by saying: to those who are 85 years old and over, we will add to them because they need more social and health services, and to those who are less, we will not add because they do not need it, it is nonsense, absurdity, see explanation about e.g. Encouraging extras on meds. Now, if you look and accept 85 years, we had no choice in the Senate, so the man who is 85 years old today was born in 1933. When he was a man, he retired when he was 60. That means he retired in 1993. In other words, his pension was calculated according to a law that took account of what he took for socialism and then part of those years, what he was taking after 1989. The pension he's got is pretty low. And even lower pension is given to a woman who retired in 1993 because women had already had fewer wages than men, and women who retired in 1993 usually had shorter periods of time to calculate and more disadvantageous. On average, let's say we marry a woman who retired at 55 and raised two children. That means she's a woman who's 80 years old today and was born in 1938. The woman, because she raised two children, retired in '55, or 1993. Since she was on maternity leave part of the time, her pension was lower on average by CZK 2,000. So today we are in a situation where we have an 80-year-old woman who raised two children, retired in 1993, and a 55-year-old man who may have also raised, but today he is 85-year-old and has a higher pension because he took more and also retired in 1993. And now we're saying, you nice man, who's 85 years old and older, we're going to add a thousand dollars, and he's going to have not two, but three thousand crowns more than the woman who's 80 years old today raised two kids and retired at the same time as the man, because she went to age 55. That's the principle. And that's the injustice. That's absurd! And these women, when you ask how many there are, you can trace that from public sources, there's about 130 to 135 thousand on average. I'll explain the number 145 grand later, that's... That's what it looks like, and this group of people, the lowest-income retired mothers, with the lowest monthly pensions, this government completely skipped and ignored in its law, and justifies it by knowing that those who are over 85, they have more health expenses and more social services spending. This is an absolutely absurd situation. [[11.30 hours]] So what we could have done was the only thing we could have done. We said well if it is that this government wants to add to those with the lowest pensions, let us do so by putting a group of people there so that it is as many as possible of those affected by this. And since the pensioner, who was born in 1933 and retired at 60, retired in 1993, he's now retired for exactly 25 years. He's exactly 25 years old, and he's 85 today. That's why we said yes, to all retired 25 or more years, let's add that thousand, and that's how we're gonna get the women, the retired mothers, who also retired in 1993, but they're not retired yet... they're not 85 because they went at 54, 55, 56, 57. That's how it is, and that's the system of Senate amendment to the law. And when someone's talking about how unfair it is, it's just completely incomprehensible to me, I don't understand. The second thing is the argument that we can't manage it. Take a look. I have searched and found a law called the Act on the Organisation and Implementation of Social Security. And in that law, there is a concept - I hope the Minister is listening to me - of the first installment of a disability pension. So we don't know the first instalment of the pension, we know the first instalment of the invalidity pension? This is used in the law, and even for this payment in § 118 para. If necessary, we are bound by any other obligations of those who are to take or are not to take a pension. I can quote this: odst. Article 2 (a) (i) (ii) and (ii) of Where a child entitled to an orphan's pension has been granted an invalidity pension, the citizen referred to in paragraph 1 shall cease to be entitled to an invalidity pension. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the special beneficiary of the day preceding the day from which the child belongs - and now beware - the first regular monthly payment of the invalidity pension. - So our legal system knows all of a sudden, this isn't a problem, this is where we do it, and when it comes to non-invalid payment, we don't know how to do it. Is that really the main argument? That sounds pretty ridiculous to me. I could be here right now reacting to some of the things the secretary said. Again, the Senate bill focused on hitting the maximum number of people with the lowest pension. If the secretary says that some 3% of those people who are 85 years old or older will fall out, it can happen. But these are people who were retired, and maybe they were people who were working until they were 75, 80, and they weren't retired, they weren't getting a pension. In other words, it is very likely that their current pension is much higher than the average pension - 15, 17, 18, 19,000. Yes, it's true that in the Senate bill, these people get out and don't get a thousand grand crowns. Maybe it's unfair to them because they were responsible. I'm sorry, too. But we weren't able to fix the whole thing. That would have to look like a government proposal, and someone would have to take care of and try and not create any semi-formats. So we said well, this is what I think these people who worked for their pensions will survive, because they are definitely not the ones with the lowest income. That's what we should be after. And I am very sorry that the Minister said that social feelings woke up in the ODS. It's just that if it wasn't for the right, he wasn't in retirement anymore. [[Cheer up in the left side of the hall.]] Now to the other things they said. 400,000 people. I don't know how the secretary got 400,000 people. To us, the increase would be about 145,000 people. And I'm getting to the next thing I say. Yes, in addition to some 135,000 female pensioners who raised two children on average, our proposal concerns some other groups. Sometimes it's okay, sometimes it's less okay. Anyone can translate it their way. This concerns, for example, miners, metallurgical workers, workers in uranium mines. They are also affected by the fact that if they are 25 years or more retired, they will get a raise, even though they are not 85. I don't think that's bad. This includes some police officers and professional soldiers. That's right. We were trying to figure out how many. At most, it's 2,000 people. At most 2,000 people. So compare 135,000 mothers' pensioners with the lowest income, and 2,000 maybe those who do not have the lowest income, and they will also be added. And vote accordingly. It's up to you. But it's certainly not that it's done today in a way that's unsystemic and unfair. It may be difficult to realize. But, as I said, the concept of the first instalment of the pension is used and we know it in the legal order, even if it concerns disability pensions, and it should not be a problem for the Czech Social Security Administration to handle this matter so that it can be paid. As far as lesser justice is concerned, I've said enough here. If you need more detailed numbers, we have them at our disposal. Unfortunately, not from the MPSV, but publicly traceable resources allow us to conduct a very precise and qualified analysis of how many people this government is making excuses for are actually involved. And Zbyněk Stanjura has already told us all about the disabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, Senator. With priority rights, I'm sorry - there's a factual point. Mr Sklenák is interested in making a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Senator He's stuck here fighting like a lion for his design. According to the number of entries, we will probably convince each other in the next few hours whether there is a fairer and better House version or Senate version. But to be honest, we don't have a choice, we have a duty to approve the original Government House version if we want to act responsibly. I believe that Parliament cannot approve the laws that will bring about application problems in practice. And that's the Senate version. Unfortunately, Senator, you made a mistake. I understand, I know how hard it is to write amendments without the apparatus that is needed. However, the proposal, as it is written, actually operates with the date of the first pension payment and in information systems it is not possible to work with it this way. Of course, every pensioner has a file that can be traced, but there's no way that hundreds of thousands of files are going through and looking for the date of the first pension. So I believe that if we approved the Senate version, it would be extremely irresponsible of the Chamber of Deputies. So if we want pensions to be raised, then we need to approve the House version. That is indeed a factual point. And the debates that will follow, and despite which system is fairer, will really be odd, because we cannot afford any other way than to approve a government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, who is responsible in this debate for the presentation of the opinion of the Pirates Club, will now speak with priority. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal to increase pensions, it is unfortunately not a pension reform, it is only an increase in pensions, we have been discussing here for quite a long time. Unfortunately, the main thing in the proposal is to increase the amount of pensions from 9 to 10 per cent of the average wage, i.e. the guaranteed amount that all pensioners receive, and thus in practice a significant increase in the lowest pensions in particular. This part, which is actually non-controversial within this House, is supported by all parties and is part of both the House and the Senate proposal, goes virtually unnoticed. At the same time, it is the core of the proposal. In fact, let's just argue about which of the two trips to settle the pensions of the oldest pensioners. As a Pirate Club, we believe that the House's proposal for 85 years makes more sense. We've already discussed in detail the mistake that the senators made from our point of view with the chosen term. The first paycheck isn't chosen badly just because of information systems, it's part of the problem that it would require huge bureaucracy. The second problem is that the first payout is not a term that would depend on, for example, pension rights. When a person applies for a pension, then the Czech Social Security Administration draws him the first paycheck, or when disputes are needed about when a person is due to retire, from when he is entitled, he gets his payout late and is paid back the pension, as he is entitled to it, but it does not reflect the proposal at all. Here we work with a term that is not derived from pension rights, but from the first payment, which is some bureaucratic act, and in some cases it may be a ten-year difference. It has nothing to do with the legal framework, or only limited, and I think the problem with the first payout is already with the valorisation, but we will get to that, I think, later. Anyway, this is one aspect. [[11.40 hours]] The second aspect is that the addition would eventually shift to 90 years. That's just a fact. This is where the current state of the pension system is argued, and we argue with those pensioners who retire in 1993, but the law applies in advance. If it were just about the elderly back and the ODS argument would really apply that we want to settle the situation one time for those pensioners who couldn't make money in socialism, we can talk about it. However, that's not how the proposal stands. The proposal will continue, and over time, there will be an increase in the limit to 90 years from the current 85, which are in the House version. We don't consider that the right principle either. Furthermore, 85 years is just so much easier for citizens, and how to work with it because they don't have to remember the date of the first paycheck, and instead they know they're going to get a grand in '85. From the point of view of the simplicity of the system, this is significantly better. One last thing. From our point of view, it is very unfortunate to bonify early retirement and penalize people who retire later voluntarily. We are concerned with the overall sustainability of the pension system. And putting in place mechanisms that motivate people to retire early and, on the contrary, discourage them from leaving later, it seems very irresponsible to us, it may cause considerable problems in the future, and once that principle is implemented, it will be very difficult to change. It is extremely difficult to reduce someone's pensions or change any rules once they are implemented, and we see this as a significant risk to the Senate proposal. Otherwise, with regard to pensions in general, I would like to remind the government of the accompanying resolution adopted by the Chamber of Deputies, which imposed on the government to come up with a proposal by the end of next year on how to deal with a situation where we now finance the entire pension system from labour taxation or social insurance, but that is indeed labour taxation, and the House does not consider this to be sustainable in the long term. In our view, the government should look for other sources of income, or other sources of income, to finance pension reform in the future. I think that is probably the main reason for this government to move forward with this problem at all. I would ask very much, like other colleagues, for information on how the government intends to continue this matter, whether there will be a group of experts who will meet regularly in some way, I would like to ask the pirát to be invited into these working groups. Thank you. Of course, the Pirates Club will support the House's proposal, just as it has already supported it in the previous vote in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. Mrs Šafránková will now speak in the debate. Let me introduce you to an apology. Mr Růžička apologizes from 12.00 to 19.00 for family reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the SPD Members will support the Senate proposal on pension insurance and, for the sake of our seniors, I would also like to ask you, Members and Members across the political spectrum here in the House to support this proposal. At this point, the social situation of our pensioners is often undignified for both men and women. However, a slightly more vulnerable group for old-age pensioners are women who, on the one hand, live to a higher age and among the oldest seniors, are already the majority, but mainly because of lower working-age salaries, they now have an average of CZK 2,000 lower pensions than men. Prices of commercial rents reach so high in almost all areas of the Czech Republic that housing is also the highest item in the family budget for workers. The possibility of a mortgage for old-age pensioners cannot be discussed at all, and the waiting period for living in a retirement home is up to five years in larger cities. Adequate housing is one of the essential parameters of quality of life and, above all, is often completely unattainable for widowed seniors. In addition, the Senate proposal compared to the government version of the bill thinks of this group of people and ensures a flat-rate increase in pensions of CZK 1,000 even for pensioners under 85 who receive a pension for at least 25 years. For example, women who have raised at least one child are now 78 years old and more, and the government's bill would not apply to them. In doing so, they are among those who have done their utmost to develop our society. Overall, there are several hundred thousand people involved in this proposal. They are hundreds of thousands of different stories and fates, and this amount will make it a little easier for everyone to pay rent or medicine and allow them to experience old age a little more dignified. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that, as an advanced society, we have a duty to take care of the most vulnerable groups of people, such as disabled people, single mothers, abandoned children in foster homes and foster care, or a group of people I am talking about, seniors who have worked their whole lives properly, raised children or were not so lucky and are disabled. For these reasons, I would like to ask you to support the Senate Bill on Pension Insurance. Thank you for your kindness. Not for yourself, but especially for our seniors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. In the general debate, Mr Bauer is now on the table, but he cannot be present at the moment. His application shall remain valid but shall lose order in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is next for Mr Luzar, who is also not present in the Chamber, so it is the same case. Now, Mrs Aulická, next in the order that is present, will speak. Mr. Výborný will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to sum up today's discussion of both proposals. Let me start by telling you how it is. What we are going to say is, the first reason why the House version was presented is because the current Prime Minister promised to raise pensions for our seniors in his pre-election argument. Therefore, after the negotiations or after the win, etc. and after negotiations with the previous Minister, they made the simplest possible version, which will have the least impact within the financial framework and on the state budget. That is why the parameter was also 85 years old and that is why it was said, and you all approved this, except the ČSSD and the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, that you would prepare for pension reform and that you wanted to change the system. We, KSČM and ČSSD, so called. We do not want to change the ongoing pension system because we are aware that at this point in time, you, the majority who have approved this resolution, are threatening the payout and future of all seniors and pensioners in this country. What, our part of the right, and it was, I think, my colleague, Bauer, who is not here now unfortunately, tabled his parliamentary proposal when discussing the parliamentary version, but he was legislative and I think partly the Ministry of Labour has warned that there are enough errors, legislatively and technically above all, that is prevented. It was not possible to discuss this and, in fact, after some agreement across the political spectrum, the version that they had received to the Senate, which we voted across the political spectrum, because, above all, nobody medialy dared to say that they would not increase our seniors' pensions, even though we all knew that the 85-year parameter did not exist and that it does not fall on the lowest pensions that we need to raise right now. [[11.50 hours]] Well, what did the Senators do for the ODS? Of course, they contacted colleague Bauer and got their intention to the end. They didn't do anything, they were just trying to enforce their intention that didn't work out in the Chamber of Deputies. Yes, it's legislatively wrong, technically it's wrong, but frankly I say they're right, it's aimed at a much larger number of our insured people who receive pensions in any form. And they've all been mentioned here, I won't say it again. And then you want KSČM to say, "We will not vote for this because it increases our impact on the state budget and it cannot be realized." It will take about a year for the Czech Social Security Administration to implement this and it will be added to these seniors. You can't ask KSČM not to vote for this proposal unless you realize that it was us who have long said that we are in favour of double valorisation. And it's those old-timers. That we are aware that the scissors are opening because the differences are between five and eight thousand between the novices and the old-timers. We are aware and therefore we have asked you to do this for a long time, that we need to find a system to so-called. Old-timers have caught up with pensions that are really so low. Yes, you are right, they are primarily women who retired earlier, and I must say that paradoxically men often do not even live to see it, these years, and they really do prevail, and we are all aware that we are more dominated by women at such a late age. On the other hand, when I take today's system that they presented to us from the Senate today, I feel sorry for the Czech Social Security Administration, because, and I do not know how the Senate negotiations were going and whether the senators even consulted some representatives or not, etc. But the introduction of new legislative... How can I say this?... as it is actually presented, the nomenclature, when, in fact, in determining and issuing pension and paycheck decisions, so the current legislation doesn't know it, so I think it's really very bad. And let me say one thing: pensions are not for the amendment! That's what you should all think about across the political spectrum. And what did you approve of? That you'd want to do a pension reform. I thought if you approved this, that you could all sit across the political spectrum and talk about it. But neither on behalf of the KSČM nor on behalf of the ČSSD will I speak now - do not ask us to change the ongoing system. Because it's really a threat. But we wanted us to be able to secure in the future the financing of pensions to which workers are entitled. That's one of the things. That is why we often did not understand from the right when the proposals came, and we had a lot before the elections that they would reduce the contributions to social insurance. I mean, that's one of the basics of getting that money into the retirement system! Why don't we talk about how to make those people who work easier in the tax sector? Why do we take these parameters, which are a fundamental income to the pension account, to so-called. A retirement account? Why do we want, and what are we fundamentally opposed to, to pull a pension account away from the state budget? Why, if we know that from the state budget, where it is crucial to finance, even if at the moment, as we have economic growth, we have the last two years called. surplus account. But why are we going the way we're going to force our citizens into the future so that they still have to pay at least CZK 1,500 to CZK 2,000 a month for each of their finances? You think the families currently have what it takes when two thirds of the people employed are less than average wages to pay four, five thousand to give each other every month from the start of their work life on the so-called. some kind of retirement account? The state, if the employee is doing lifelong work, the state should take adequate care of him. Therefore, do not be angry with us, we think that the way you want to go, most in the Chamber of Deputies, so it is not the protection of insured people and future pensioners, but it is more about how to get as much money into the commercial sphere as possible. And rather endanger the entire future of our seniors. Anyway, I might say - it's not the defence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but what we've been through in the last six months at the MPSV, chaos, change of ministers, ministers, so I don't think that, and I really don't know, maybe the Senator could tell us that when we discuss the parliamentary version in the Senate, I don't know who was acting as the Ministry, but I think it's the government's fault that she didn't take an opinion and maybe she didn't act more forcefully in that agreement or in that negotiation. So that she can convince a larger part of the senators to really make the changes that we have on the table today, so that they can be dealt with in a different form than the amendment that we got back. I think it was a little reliant on the fact that it just won't pass and at most in the Chamber of Deputies that we'll throw it down, etc. But you really can't want us to act like we're reporting that we want to raise pensions all the time, and then we'll defend the state budget. No one really wants us to do that. Because we're not in the coalition. Let me conclude, then, and we have already said this at our press conference, that after the meeting of our club, we have come to the conclusion that, of course, we will vote unitedly once again for the approval of the parliamentary version, but our club will not vote unitedly with the Senate version. Some will stay and some will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Mr Benešík will respond with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear government, there are words of merit and that women are often disadvantaged because they have received smaller salaries. That's all true. And as far as merit is concerned, there is a large group of people who just can't have the merit because for all sorts of reasons when they were young, and today they're 70, they were disadvantaged. For example, because they could not study for political reasons, they could not have had the jobs they wanted, they could not have the income they wanted, they could not contribute so much to the system, and today they have small pensions. This is what we should be focusing on, too. These are people who have lived a large part of their productive life in socialism, and today because they do not want to submit, they have little pensions. And then we have another group of people here, and often this group of people is combined with the first group I've named, and they're often women who have worked again. They didn't get a place in school or in the teaching field, for all sorts of reasons, and they went to work at 15, 16. Mostly agriculture. But the evidence doesn't exist. They've worked, never been locked up or prosecuted for sustenance, but they're not able to prove that they've worked because there's no evidence, or they've never even done it. Just for one worker at the time, in the '60s, even in the '70s, there were five people. And today, even though they were working, obviously they were working, according to our current parameters, they don't have so-called. worked time and have small pensions. They're people around me. If we have a woman who is 67 years old, raised three children, worked her whole life honestly and thanks to this slendrian 60s and 70s she has 7,500 crowns, something is wrong! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u27	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, your time is up. Now in the debate, Mr Výborný, Mrs Pekarová Adamová will speak after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u28	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, I would like to present here the opinion of the KDU-ČSL MEP on the press. We have supported this version already here in the Chamber of Deputies and the entire KDU-ČSL Senators Senator's Senator Vystrčil's amendment. I think much has already been said here about the degree of justice, whether the increase will be directed towards those who receive the higher pensions today or vice versa, which is the subject of a Senate proposal. We're going to support the group that has the lowest pension. So much has been said here, and it's pointless to repeat it. I would like to remind you that if we mostly support the Senate amendment, it will not, on the one hand, bankrupt the state budget, we have also heard that here, and then we will also support the women of the mother who retired before the 1960s, and I think they deserve it. I would like to remind you here that on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, we, as the KDU-ČSL club, have already tabled an amendment during the discussion which aimed at increasing the pension by 500 crowns per raised child. And there was no support for that. I believe there will be majority support for the Senate proposal today. If this is not the case, it has already been said here, of course we are prepared to support the original proposal, but we do not think that it would be as fair as our seniors would deserve. And I would also like to welcome the words of the Minister, who said here that she is aware of the disproportion between women's and men's pensions in our country, that the difference there is up to a fifth. I believe that once we have repeatedly put forward that proposal to support the women of mothers who raised children to increase their pensions, the government will support this, because we are going to argue by waiting and putting it systemically into pension reform - we have been waiting for it for 20 years. I wouldn't like to be here for another four years, three years talking about waiting for retirement reform. Let us do this now and, of course, we will then implant it into pension reform. It's the right procedure. But let's support the mother's wife this way. I believe that, even after the Minister's words, the government will then turn to this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u29	I thank the honourable Member. Have a nice noon. And next, I will ask Mrs Pekarová to speak, and Mr Pávek will prepare himself. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that many have already been said here. The arguments have been raised from both sides, so I want to sum up the TOP 09 position very briefly, which is that we want to definitely support the Senate proposal, because we believe that it has really improved our original version. We voted in favour of the amendment that we had here during the House negotiations. Of course, setting a perfectly fair solution that will be fair to all, in this area, is not easy, if at all possible. I think it would really be for an economic price. However, I think it is the least fortunate to hear the criticism of the Senate proposal from the Minister, whether finance or the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in the spirit that we may be putting groups of seniors against each other, that we are facing an old-timer, an invalid pensioner who is also in retirement. This seems very unfortunate to me, and I think we should avoid it and those who argue that way should think about it. If there are technical problems with us being able to apply the proposal as it is presented, I believe that where there is a will, there is a way that there have also been many times said that there are solutions. And to argue again that something is not possible because of the systems they use at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, virtually. Czech Social Security Administration, there is only a lack of the will that if it were to be dealt with, the solution is certainly possible, there is and it is not as difficult as it is presented to us. I want to pause, of course, as is customary every time we discuss any point relating to pensions, also when it is necessary to focus on a solution that will be long-term. We have been very critical of this amendment for a point that concerns the increase in the figure from 9 to 10 percent, the basic one, so we were already calling on the government to give more and more resources to the future pensions - the OECD, the World Bank and other renowned organisations - that we are supposed to give more and more than 45 percent from the pension spending component in 2060, today it is 33 and something, i.e. It's almost halfway there. And if we add to that an increase in social welfare expenditure, which I'm sure will also experience a greater strain, that's going to be 50 percent. And I ask, at the expense of what it will be solved at that time, virtually. If we don't really start dealing with it today, it will reflect on the quality of public services, it will reflect on the amount of pensions, it will manifest itself on other and other folders and we will have to stand here before the question of how to explain to the citizens that there will simply be no more money for it or that we will have to go into much more debt. Of course, reform of the pension system is meant to do this. The previous government was very reluctant to do so, if I should be so euphemistic, because there really was no attempt to speak of it. The Commission, which was led by Mr Potůček, did not even have the task of preparing a reform as such, rather it was all parametric changes to the current system and the abolition of the original pension reform. Therefore, I think that at the very beginning of this period, when we already have a government, we already have a period of almost three quarters of a year in a row, but we finally have a government that has legitimacy, we should want to know exactly the specific term. The questions have already been raised here by colleagues, we still haven't heard the answer. So I'm hoping the Minister will come forward and tell us his idea of how this should be handled. If she does not want to set up another task force or commission, we are prepared to take this task for her. I must say that this is a matter which is certainly not easy for the opposition. In this case, of course, the government with ministries and experts who should be at those ministries and those that it can invite. But we've offered to help several times. I'm offering her again. The Minister is in office very briefly now, and he is here today for the first time in this capacity, so I say this especially for her, that we are prepared to offer and cooperate with our experts for this, because such reform should be adopted across the political spectrum, so that it really is not a solution for just a few years, but for decades in advance. Therefore, I ask that we proceed to this step as soon as possible, and there is no time to waste. The election season is running quite quickly, and before we know it, we'll be at the end of it. And it will certainly take months to discuss such a vital matter as pension reform. So much for our position. TOP 09 will support the Senate proposal. In the event that it is not approved, we will vote in favour of the proposal that came from the House. However, we would very much like to remember the elderly old-timers and, in this case, to choose the fairer solution from the possible ones. Although, as I was saying at the outset, finding a 100% fair solution may be hard to do at some point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u31	Thank you, Madame. And next, I will ask Mr Petr Pávek to speak, and Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u32	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, dear government. Of course, I am very sorry that we are not discussing today's reform of the pension system, that we are discussing two versions of the bill for an increase before the election. But since almost everything has been said about both versions, I do not intend to prolong this discussion. In my contribution, I would like to dispel your possible concerns about the state budget, which brazenly feeds an army of officials, an incredibly large army of officials, who eats up this country as locusts and doesn't give it back. According to the Prime Minister, they have 16,500 dead souls on the central bodies of the government, for which they receive money that divides between the officials who are there. I believe that this is a huge reserve in which the government could possibly look for the most needed, and be a little more generous in this sense at the expense of those who do not have the merit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I would now ask for the speech of Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková and Mr Jan Bauer will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u34	Hello, Mr President, Mr Government, Mr Senator, Mr Members. I can only take one reminder on this subject and then maybe a few comments. For the sake of order, I remind you that an increase of approximately 700 CZK pension from 1. 1. 2019 is actually the result of a change in the Valorisation Mechanism, which proposed social democracy in the government of Bohuslav Sobotka and was the result of the agreement, of course, with the then coalition partners YES and KDU. Frankly, we are glad that then Minister Němcová from YES added the extraordinary valorisation to this, because we originally wanted it to be higher, and the proposal for a thousand crowns for seniors after 85 years of age. Those are the things we're talking about here. But I say for myself, I wish the seniors would get a lot more, all of them. But they all have to get this raise, which is ready and which is in the government's proposal from 1. 1. 2019. And that's our point. That is why the President of Social Democracy, Mr Hamáček, has asked for all of us to meet today untraditionally in the holiday period, to discuss the government proposal and, if possible, to approve so that all pensioners will actually receive an increase in their first pension in January. But this threatens the application of the technically imperfect ODS amendment. That's what we talked about when we were discussing the proposal in the House. And, as Secretary Schillerová said, it is simply impossible or very difficult to perform, it would lead to chaos, it would lead to delays in pension payments. I recommend to all who doubt that they should go to the Czech Social Security Administration and look into the archives, and there they would better imagine what kind of work it would be if they had to look for the first payments in those paper forms. You know, ladies and gentlemen, I haven't forgotten what it is to have counted, whether you can buy five rolls, or you can only make three. And that reminds me, that roll cost 60 cents back then. [[Reactions from the O.R.: 30 cents.]] I just didn't forget. Thirty? I remember 60. I just haven't forgotten, and none of us should forget what it is to live from paycheck to paycheck, what it is to have counted every crown you can publish. And in that case, every delay by a day, by two, God forbid a longer time is just a problem for those people. We can't jeopardize the flow of pension payments. That is why the government's proposal needs to be supported. However, I see the situation of the women mentioned here, especially those left alone for old age. There, of course, the problems with low incomes are even more pronounced. It is simply not a good thing that over time their pensions have gone below the minimum level of living. And I also feel very sensitive, and I think that we all have to see it that way, the issue of people with disabilities. They, too, should have established limits on medication, as seniors over 65 have. That's the solution. And we need to deal with them as quickly as possible. For social democracy, I say we deal with them. But the ODS proposal, which we have here at this point in the form of a Senate proposal, does not address what I am talking about. It's just something out of the system. And I'm saying again, it threatens the flow of retirement payments after that one. 1. But I must say, I am very glad that colleagues from ODS care so much about women. I'm talking about seniors right now. I hope, therefore, that they will help us deal with the problem and, above all, to resolve what is the real cause of low pensions not only for the elderly, but also for those who are about to retire. And the underlying cause is perhaps one-fifth less women's wages than men's for the same job and in the same position. That, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, is where we have sad priorities compared to other European countries. The Czech Republic is one of the worst in Europe compared to women's and men's salaries. I am therefore looking forward to cooperation across the political spectrum, certainly with the TOP 09, but also with the ODS, in the fight for non-discriminatory pay for women from wages to pensions. And let me make a note of the address, or directed at a fellow Senator Vystrčil. Ladies and gentlemen, whoever does not vote in favour of the Senate version may delay the higher addition of one group of seniors. Whoever votes for the Senate version will jeopardize the continuity of pension payments since January, from 1. 1. 2019, for all seniors in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u35	Thank you, ma'am. I would therefore now call for Mr Bauer's speech. And lastly, Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared for the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u36	Dear Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow Members, I listened carefully. For those of you who are not entirely concerned with social issues, I repeat that the Senate proposal that we are talking about here is identical to one of the parliamentary amendments that we have dealt with here in the first, second and third readings. I feel that, not only here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, but also on the social committee, all the arguments have been raised, so I confess that the fundamental arguments that I see are better than the one approved by the Chamber of Deputies have already been made, because the specific things and the fundamentals have fallen from the mouth of my colleague, Senator Miloš Vystrčil, and President Zbyněk Stanjura. I must say, then, that when I listened to some of my previous speakers, I was very surprised by the argumentary variability, because it is true that we spend eight months raising pensions, and it is the fourth minister or minister speaking on this subject at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, and if you have heard those arguments both on the Social Committee and here in plenary, then for each minister it is likely that some other team of people prepared the argumentary blowout, because once the main argument was that there was no money, the second time that it was poorly prepared or that there was an imperfect reason report, and that was a bit of a shock to me. What I would like to say here is that in the last 14 days, I have honestly written down the reasons for the current government coalition to drop the Senate proposal, so allow me to sum it up very briefly here. First reason. The ODS proposal is said to mean too much cargo for the state budget. I had a feeling that the main reason was really the two-billion-dollar cost to the state budget, but when I heard the Minister of Finance today that a priori the two billion were not the main reason, I stopped. I would just like to remind myself that it is therefore two billion - an additional Senate proposal, and for comparison it is a third of the costs that the state and government of Andrej Babiš want to spend annually on discounts on fares for seniors and students under the age of 26. While only seniors who take a train or bus can enjoy fare discounts, the extra thousand grand crowns in their wallet, according to the Senate's proposal, will improve 140 or 150,000 of those who take the lowest pensions compared to the government's version. The second reason I've noticed in the media is probably hard for me or the least understandable. The Senate proposal cannot be accepted because the Czech Social Insurance Administration does not have software that can calculate 25 years after taking up retirement. This argument has also been discussed here today. It was the first to be spoken by Minister Maláčová, just after she took up the position of Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. So I believe that with a look back maybe she will also recognise that this argument may not be entirely relevant, perhaps rather representative, and I think that it will be difficult to explain to her constituents, because they can just ask you how it is that something like this is not to be viewed, and I think that adapting software programs and internal processes to the Czech Social Security Administration is not such an insurmountable problem as it would seem at first sight. Third reason. The proposal advocated by the Civil Democratic Party and sanctified by the Senate is not justified enough. For that, my fellow Members, I have only one. Please refer back to the explanatory memorandum accompanying the original government proposal and recall the pubic arguments of officials explaining why only seniors over 85 years of age should be improved. They say people over 85 years of age have higher health care costs and cannot apply to the labour market. Here, please tell the sick 80 - year - old grandmother who, moreover, does not know that the blessed age of 85 will ever live to see these arguments. Unlike this formal justification for the government proposal, in my opinion, the Senate is a completely systemic solution. Fourth reason. The Senate proposal is said to favour people who retired prematurely. I have the following argument. No one is sure to claim that the proposal is ideal, nor will anyone deny that in some cases a changed pension scheme can fail someone somewhere, for various individual reasons, but this is a pretty problem for every law. Sometimes, and I am convinced of what I do in politics, it is not possible to adopt a law that covers all life situations, and it is a tax for generalization, which logically occurs in legislation. Moreover, the generalisation presented has a fundamental positive side. A Senate proposal can help women who have raised children and have actually retired early and are now receiving lower pensions than men. Sometimes it's just charity. I thought it was the fight for higher women's pensions that the new Minister of Labour and Social Affairs also made priority. At least that's what she's declared in her previous statements. Fifth and final reason. The proposal would bring bureaucracy linked to determining the first pension payment. There are people who are suing for the amount of their pension, and that's why they're not getting their first paycheck. I feel like I'm quoting some of my fellow pirates. I'm sorry, maybe that's a relevant argument, but I don't think it's too heavy a calibre, I feel like it's more like trying to find something at all costs to find an argument. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not heard any other factual arguments against the Senate Bill on Pension Insurance, and I do not think they have spoken in the debate today either. Perhaps in conclusion. I would therefore like to call on you to reconsider your decision once more and to support the Senate proposal for raising pensions. I'm convinced this isn't about a political conflict. It is our joint effort to draw up rules that will benefit as many seniors as possible from momentary economic growth. I see no reason why you should at all costs show loyalty to the current government in the forthcoming vote. The Senate proposal is not contrary to the government's original intention. On the contrary, it comes out of it and only corrects it in a reasonable way. With a third of the cost against fare reductions, we can almost immediately help 150,000 people with the lowest pensions. One final statement or one final remark, it has already been made here today. I refer to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies which we adopted when we discussed this proposal at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies at third reading. Whatever the outcome of the vote today, it is only and only a partial amendment to the Government's amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, it is not a reform that we talk about so often, and therefore I would very much like to call on this government to respect this resolution and to start working on pension reform without delay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And the last person to sign up for the general debate is Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u38	Mr President, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I assume that, like me, you have been bombarded with requests for meetings in the last 14 days, you have received emails from our pensioners. Here I want to stress that what we are discussing today is not a political struggle, or at least it should not be a political struggle between the right and the left, between the government and the opposition, but it should be a debate over the facts, and that is the problem our seniors are experiencing. Unfortunately, in the week preceding this meeting, I listened to the fates of people who had retired before 1989, 1990 and others, and I heard personal experiences of people who had gone into disability pensions, who also went to other types of pensions than retirement pensions, and I have to say that although I do not deal with this issue, I personally felt very sorry for those people. That is why I have decided that any chance that will lead to an improvement in the financial situation of our seniors will always be supported. And here I am going to say, and I apologize to the Minister of Finance, regardless of the state of the register, because this is about these people. And survive with pensions that receive so-called. Old-timers, it's really very, very hard these days. I don't want any of you to listen to the arguments and the way those people with tears in your eyes tell you that they just don't have the essentials for basic food because they have to buy drugs and they want to work somehow. There have been arguments that say that if we accept this proposal, we will cause a collapse. If one of my colleagues said that, I'd understand. In the context of the rhetorical debate on this microphone, the categorical expression of collapse may also be heard, but if the Minister, who is responsible for social matters, tells me that there is a risk of collapse of the pension system, if we accept the senators' proposal, this is, in my opinion, either sending an alarm message among the citizens that the senators here have decided to block pension payments and to collapse the social benefits system, I consider this to be quite problematic and I would very much like the Minister here to reassure our pensioners that this is a partial proposal and consists of two parts. And the one part that we're talking about right now is just the partial part of 85 years or the other system of raising pensions. But in no way - I stress, in no way - there will be a collapse of the payment of old-age pensions and pension systems of the Czech Republic. Yes, there may be 25 years or 85 years or more for this group, and there may be a certain delay with payout before the systems pass, the thousand-coron may be paid with, for example, a delay after a quarter year of backwards before the system starts. All this I am able to accept and understand, but certainly not talk about the collapse that our seniors will not receive their pensions from 1 January. [[12.30 hours]] There is talk of the quality of legislative work. Yes, the Senate proposal lacks some of the things it should contain. And when the question was raised here, how does government legislation work with fellow senators, but also with us Members - how many of you, colleagues, have prepared an amendment, and how far have you met with the willingness of the ministers to help you with the proposal, to be legally in order to fit some context, and to try to guide you, even though they knew that the proposal was, say, impassible to them, unwanted, or that they would do everything in order to fail? I'm afraid I'm meeting this, and I assume you are too. With no interest in helping, the proposal, which is unwanted, should also be legislatively sound. Maybe it's fate here too. I don't know, maybe a colleague of the senator, or the plaintiff, will tell us how much the Ministry's law officers have worked with them to complete the proposal and be such as to meet the current conditions of the law and not cause legislative problems. It's about the words of the definition, the definition of the system. On the contrary, as I read the bill returned from the Senate, I was very interested in the fact that there is talk of pensions. We're all debating and automatically taking pensions like those old-age pensions. But just because there's only the word pension, it doesn't just apply to old-age pensions, but there are early pensions, disability pensions, and other types of pensions. And I appreciate that, in contrast to the plaintiffs of the original proposal, it focuses on a much wider range of benefits that can be regarded as pensions and that therefore it is not just a retirement pension from 25 or an old-age pension from 85 years old. There's talk of justice. Unfortunately, every system is unfair in a certain way, and it is only a matter of making the group that might feel unfair as little as possible. We're not able to invent a system that's fair to everyone. Because even in that system, 85 years of age, those who are 84.5 years old will clearly feel wronged, why not them, why not from 85, why not from 84. So there will always be a group that can be described as unfairly affected. That's why I think the answer to why the Ministry chose 85 and not 80, or, on the contrary, 90 years - what affected it. I'm assuming that by financial and financial means, we're going to convert the possibilities of the state's cash. But it has to be said. That it's not, that it's a fair system, he's given only by choice. And from this point of view, the argument that the original proposal submitted as a government proposal is fairer than the proposal submitted by the senators is not a correct argument. At least not unfair. Because both proposals are, at least to the extent of efforts, say, fairer than the existing system. I have heard arguments about why this is not possible, mostly technical, as I, as an official, would also try to justify why I cannot do something, why it is causing me problems. I admit that in the relevant discussion, I would expect arguments on how to do this and how difficult it would be to do it. In other words, I would expect a relevant argument to provide changes to the parameters of the pension system in computing systems. It would mean so many and so many hours of work, it would mean so much and so much cost, and it would take so long and so much. We checked with the supplier of our systems. Are you, dear Members, able and willing to go into this with this risk? It would mean, for example, the repayment of this benefit not since January, as proposed, but it would simply have to be postponed. There will be another amendment to the decree, in legislation, to move this forward in order to do so. This didn't even sound like it. It is said that it simply cannot be done because the existing system does not have a box in which it would be registered. But the argument was made here. They'll have to do it by hand! Everybody think about it! They'll have to go to the archives. There's a pile of paper somewhere and they're gonna have to hand-write it. It's nonsense. I do not consider this argument absolutely relevant! This is simply an argument that is supposed to cause concern that officials will have to do something difficult, impossible, at our request. From this title, I think that the proposal, although I may have reservations about the legislative form of the proposal and, for example, the factual definition, is partly advantageous for - I apologize for the expression - the old-timers and the new-timers, I don't know how to explain it more easily. For those old-timers he's helping. And when it was said that those who worked longer or worked longer and did not retire, I would like to point out that this situation is mainly a state of the last five, maybe ten years, when people who should retire continue their work because it is more advantageous for them. But here we are talking about people who retired eighty-nine years ago, or just after that, when state policy was set the other way around. He told people: go into early retirement, allow early retirement. Many were very happy to retire. So let's use the relevant arguments to explain why we don't like a proposal. As has already been said here, the KSČM clearly defines how it will proceed in the vote on this law. But, as I said in the discussion of the original government proposal, I just consider the limit of 85 years as a limit set by the Green Table. And any effort to help the old-timers, to compare the scissors that are here, I consider it an effort to go in the right direction, and therefore I will also actively support it in the vote under the Senate proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u39	I thank Mr Luzar and the President of the Pirates Group, Mr Jakub Michálek, is the last to be applied. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, allow me to say a few words about this major press that we have on our table now. I was going to say that the Pirates MP was the first club to sign up to support the fact that pensions were to be increased, and from the outset we were saying and we had it on the agenda that they should increase fairly to everyone. This means that this increase is not only for those who take the highest pensions, but for those who are at risk of poverty to benefit from this increase. So that's why we supported the proposal, we had it in the program, and I'm quite sorry that some so-called. Right-wing media interprets it in a completely different way, like the pirát joining the Communists. It's not true. We supported the proposal much earlier, right after it was published. So that's basic. We will also support the proposal in the vote, as we supported it when the Chamber of Deputies discussed it for the first time. But I don't think we should just think about seniors at this point, but we should think about the whole company. And it's something I'm a little lacking in this government proposal. It is particularly a question of the fact that even seniors have children. And the fact that there's a middle generation and a young generation. And that the system needs to be perceived as a whole. In particular, I would draw attention to the fact that the government had pension reform in the programme. If anything is the opposite of pension reform, let's just say it's a one-sided increase in the state's spending, pension spending, without saying clearly what the money is going to be taken from. Because anybody knows how to split money. Taking credit, creating debts, etc., is really something anybody can do. But the crucial task is to say where this beneficial step, which the increase in pensions is bound to be, will be taken. And the amounts are small, and when we look at the projection, they're really dramatic. I will now be based on Chart 3, which is on page 8 of the explanatory memorandum to the House press 120, which shows the balance of income from pension insurance premiums and pension expenses. I figured out, to make it clear, how many years I'm going to be in the individual part of this graph. So now I'm about 30 years old, when I'm forty, the pension system starts to go into a fairly significant deficit, about 0.5 percent. [[He's showing the document.]] But the worst, most dramatic moment, the zhup that's in that graph, it's gonna happen when I'm around the retirement limit, about sixty-eight years old. And in the year fifty-seven, it looks like the annual deficit of the pension system is going to be 3.5 percent of the gross domestic product, or 200 billion. Knights a year at a loss. 200 billion. Crowns a year! That is a huge sum that will burden the state budget, which will have to subsidize it. Or the government should say what it has in the long run if it wants to plan responsibly with a view to the next generation, where it will take that amount. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] When we look at what this proposal is about, this proposal is, let's say, a cosmetic change that will have an impact on the development of pensions that the deficit will increase by about another 20 billion. koruna, because now it is proposed to divide more than 12 billion. crowns a year. And, of course, if there are more seniors who will have the right to increase after eighty-five years and if there are more seniors in retirement, the amount will, of course, increase dramatically. But we're talking about some 20 billion. crowns a year. About what we're approving today. Well, for talking about 20 billion. The koruna a year, there's a rather busy atmosphere...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u41	I ask the Chamber of Deputies to remain calm so that the Member may speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u42	So the crucial thing is that within decades, the pension system will go into a 200 billion deficit. Crowns. And if you budget it, what's the total amount for the next few decades, we're talking about 2 trillion crowns, roughly. Plus minus some trillion maybe. And the increase in total that we approve today is 0.5 trillion crowns for the next 30 or 40 years. That means until the most dramatic moment in the pension system. So that's why I wanted to ask the government if she could make it clear if she had any concept of how to raise money, these dramatic sums, 200 billion. CZK annually, the Czech Republic, to ensure the standard of living of our seniors. That's what I think is pretty crucial. If what we've been talking about for several years is finally going to be realized, what the government has even put in the programme statement that it will start to deal with the profits from the Czech Republic not only in the form of legal dividends, but also in the form of some different illegal tax optimizations. That is what I think are the steps that are expected of the government if it wants to be budgetaryly responsible. So I wanted to end my speech by asking the government to set up an institution that is seriously concerned with pension reform, ideally so as to present a proposal that can still be approved in this parliamentary term, because we should start now and not let it go to future generations that are already entering a system that will be deficit-free and which will be indebted to the Czech Republic. So, in conclusion, let me ask the government to set up a commission in which all the political parties in the Chamber of Deputies will be represented and on whose panel will finally be prepared something that should be called pension reform. So I'm summing up my performance. We will support the proposal to increase pensions. We want our seniors to have a decent standard of living, especially those who are most at risk of poverty, but at the same time we ask that the need for pension reform in the Czech Republic be systematically addressed, so that for this purpose a commission can be established, which has a clear mandate to submit a proposal which will still be discussed during this parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. Now I'd like to read one apology. Mrs Andrea Brzobohatá apologizes for the whole day of the meeting. And now I have one more point of fact. And please the Chamber of Deputies for peace. I know there's a lunch break coming up, but let's get this over with. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u44	Thank you. I would like to respond by your means to my previous speaker, because he did not actually say how the pirát will vote in this. We will support the proposal to increase pensions - but which one? Original government or senate? So a tactically good answer. Just citizens, we're behind you, but if more or less, we don't know. The second thing that came from a colleague here, and that is an argument that I, confess, do not like. Talk about that 200 billion. There's a lot of money. There's a lot of money, but he's kind of forgetting that in those big numbers, it's exactly the argument why pensioners shouldn't get a raise in the current state, because he doesn't have the state budget for it. But I'll turn it around, the argument, the pirát. Dear colleagues, please note that there is a large group of seniors who receive five, six, seven maximum eight thousand crowns of old-age pension and must live on it for a month. Let's try to turn the amounts around. Those are the old-timers whose valorizations are developing, they're opening up in those scissors. Let's try to talk about this here and not about the big numbers, because of course everyone's gonna get hit by 200 billion, and it's a big amount, but nobody really cares about anybody anymore... I understand from this performance that there is a large group of seniors who are actually taking this money, which is not a dignified life of a senior in the 21st century. And that's the problem we're talking about right now, and we're talking about how much to contribute and how much more to help those old-timers get out of their pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u45	Thank you for keeping time. And now I have no more application for discussion. Then Mr. Michálek to the facts. So let's make one more point of fact. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u46	It's really just a factual remark to Mr. Foreman. I said that we were the first party to support the government proposal and that we would support it now in the vote in the Chamber of Deputies. That was what President Bartoš and Mikuláš Ferjenčík said in front of me in the opinion of our MP. So in this respect, we are constructive, we have always been constructive, and we will support all the proposals that we think will have a head and a heel, whether presented by YES, ODS, TOP 09 or Communists.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. And now for the final word, because as a senator, you wouldn't have the final word eventually. So if you want to marry him now, take him. And you're applying, so tell us the final word. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u48	Mr President, dear government, fellow Members, before I respond to any comments on this Senate bill, because I consider it polite, I would like to repeat once again what we are talking about here. Pension reform is not in sight. The previous government has not submitted one, and the current government has decided to add the most needed ones to pensions, and said that among the most needed are a group of people who are over 85 years old and that they need to add CZK 1,000 a month. We in the Senate looked at the proposal and found that in our opinion, and it is up to everyone how it will apply in this vote of yours, it is that the government has forgotten one large group of the most needed. We have found that, apart from those who are over 85 years old, there are still some 135,000 retirement mothers, who are under 85 years of age and over 80 years of age, who have in the vast majority lower pensions than those who are over 85 years of age, so that the group is 130 thousand members, and that it has not been added. So we in the Senate only did the thing that we said: well, pension reform is out of sight, so let's add 200,000 to those who are over 85 years old, 60,000 men, 140,000 women, another 145,000 people, of whom 135,000 women are retired mothers, who raised on average two children. That's all we did. When you do such a thing and at the same time there is no Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and there is a Deputy Prime Minister in the Senate, who is also a Minister of Foreign Affairs and at the same time a Minister of the Interior, it is quite difficult in terms of communication on how to do it properly. So it happened that there were some problems that, in my opinion, are overcomeable, and the administration is able to deal with them, either now or in some foreseeable time. The first reminder, the first concern is the technical solution, that it would be necessary to find out who has and who is not entitled, because it is not entirely clear who has ever received the first pension paid. I have said here that we are already using this term in another law in the case of invalidity pensions, and I am convinced that this is a thing that can be overcome, and I am convinced that what Mrs GajdůGajdůšková said is the dissemination of an alarm report if she says that there is a risk that pensions could also be unpaid. That's total nonsense, and I can't imagine anyone being able to do that. At the same time, it has been brought to the attention of the Pirát, and there I have to say, the comments are quite realistic, and it is always so, that there are simply some problems arising, that it brings certain administrative problems in terms of data determination and local justice, but again, 135 000 people are minority in terms of that. Minority! It's just not a major problem. It's a few people who would have the problems Mr. Ferjenčík here said. Just as it is with what he said about the early pensions, and with the concern, I stress that it could become a custom in the Czech Republic that everyone will want to retire early in order to get thousands of crowns before, after 25 years of retirement. That's almost funny, because, of course, pension reform has to be done, and here, in my opinion, there's no threat of fear, because we all know there's got to be a change. What we're doing today with the Senate proposal is we're following in the footsteps of the government that said "help the most needy," and we're pointing out that there are 135,000 retired mothers missing. So let's add them. That's all. That's all we do and we don't say we're doing pension reform. It needs to be done, and it needs to be done as quickly as possible. But that's not what we're dealing with right now. We are now dealing with a current, immediate situation that will be valid for two, three, four, five years, and until then, we simply have to do something about these pensions, otherwise it may also turn out as my colleague Michálek said. And now for some of the other notes. I therefore want to thank for the support of Mrs Šafránková, Mr President Gazdík, Mrs Aulická, who rightly said that the scissors between the old and the new walkers are opening up. We're doing something about this Senate bill today. It's up to you whether you agree to it or not. If you want novices to have more income than old folks, don't do anything about it. I also want to thank Mr Benešík and Mr Výborný. Again, the principle of merit, please, is not only about the amount of pension tax if I simplify it. The principle of merit is also about who the family can raise as many economically active children. Without economically active adults, our ongoing pension system wouldn't work at all today. That's crucial. This means, if we are talking about merit, it is by far not just about the amount of pension tax, but also about who can or cannot raise economically active children. Be very careful with that, and don't forget it. So much for me to conclude. Therefore, I would urge you once again to really consider whether, despite all the problems and imperfections that the Senate amendment contains and which we would have to overcome, you would not vote for it, because from the point of view of the main thing within it, this is bringing justice between those who need what they have, what they have the lowest pensions and deserve to add today, is more correct and fairer than what the government has put forward. And our job is to take care, among other things, of those who need it most. And if the current government can't hear this, I don't know what else it wants to hear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u49	Thank you, Mr. Senator. Unless there's anyone else reporting in... You're still applying. Please. Mr. President of the Stanjura Parliamentary Club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor. Just a short recap of what was said here, the arguments for and against. First of all, I have already said that the amendment to give the 1,000 CZK to either pensioners who are 25 years or 20 in retirement is properly loaded during the second reading. It's nothing new, so the administration could prepare for it or start preparing for it. First of all. Secondly, it's a question for the Minister. Maybe this time he'll answer me, unlike the previous questions. The dispute, aside from the excuses for IT systems, concerns a group of retirees who are 85 or more and are not in retirement for 25 years and are 5 or 6,000. The dispute has a relatively simple solution, which we cannot do today, but if there is a political will, it can be resolved very easily and very quickly, because today the two proposals, the House and the Senate, are either - or. And the law, and I talked about it with my honored colleague, the president of our club in the Senate, Miloš Vystrčil, maybe we, who were in the House or colleagues in the Senate, could have done so, that those who were 85 years old or 25 years old could have gotten the 1,000 CZK. And that group of 5 or 6,000 wouldn't actually exist. This proxy argument, which actually, if I joined this group of 5 to 6,000 and threw overboard the 140,000, wouldn't be. The political basis is very simple. All we have to do today is approve the Senate version, and if the government comes up with a proposal in the '90s that will have another paragraph saying that it will be there for 85 years or 25 years in retirement, then for our club I say, even for our colleagues in the Senate, that we are ready to approve it in this special regime, and this dispute and this group, which is the coincidence that they are 85 and are not yet 25 years in retirement, would suddenly not be. We could solve the $5,000. It wouldn't have suffered the 135 or 140 grand. It seems logical, correct, even from the speeches of most speakers today, and politically clear that it is not a yeti type: I will come up with a system solution and a pension reform. We, who have sometimes pursued successful or unsuccessful pension reform, know how complicated this is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u51	Mr. Chairman, I'm just gonna interrupt you for a second. I suggest, because we don't have another logged in, that we finish this point. Do you agree? And the longer we'd take a break. I don't see any major objection. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u52	Just so you don't yell at me that you want to have lunch. I'm not done yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u53	No, I'm just suggesting we continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u54	We don't really care if we vote now or after the break. This is just a political solution. I'd like to hear from Madam Secretary whether she likes it or not. If it's a way to solve the $5,000 without throwing the 135,000 overboard. And we could help everyone from January 1st. The economy has been growing for a long time. If you look, I was talking about it in the draft state budget for next year, so there's a projected increase in revenue of 100 billion. Take a look at the 2016 budget for example, then compare it to 2019. Look at how much revenue the state budget is increasing. So there's no doubt that space exists. It would be an elegant solution for the benefit of our seniors and for the benefit of those whom my colleague, Senator Vystrčil, spoke about a moment ago, to those families who raised children and secured them by the fact that they are operating an ongoing system, that they are now economically active in paying you out of their pensions of existing seniors, and they rightly expect that when they are not economically active, that the following generations that are in that system will be equally successful. Many colleagues, at least Petr Gazdík and many others, spoke about it. If you look at the demographic curve, it's not quite clear that it would automatically work. When you take the number of people in each year, the most threatened group is not the existing seniors or those who have a few years to retire, but the youngest generations are the most threatened. And we can say that we don't care what happens in 20, 25, 30 years, but we should be interested and we should think about it. I do not share optimism that pension reform will soon be introduced. I remember, and I'm sure the Prime Minister will be upset, as he said here sometime in 2015: I'll present it within six months. Then the most loyal member of the ANO movement Martin Komárek stepped out and said these words to this microphone, slightly paraphrasing: I have not seen it yet, but I am sure it will be a great reform. And we haven't seen it yet, and it's been three years. And so it will be with this government's promise. I will overlook Potůčkův's retirement commission, which was the Social Democracy Commission to justify the abolition of the second pillar. All right, they had it in the program, they pushed. They didn't bring anything besides that. Madam Secretary in those few days - I think her basic verb she uses is to raise it. Everything wants to increase, minimum wage, benefits, minimum of living, minimum of existence, pensions. But somebody has to pay for it, too. So we should say not only increase, but also how to make the system sustainable. The password to raise is too easy. I may be running a little bit, but I'm gonna take advantage of this opportunity because they make me nervous, and not just me, but especially small and small businessmen, debate about minimum wage. I want to draw your attention to an effect that we don't talk about very much. One thing is minimum wage, that's not what I want to talk about today, but the government's regulation contains something other than minimum wage, and that's a guaranteed wage. And the debates are narrowing down to the lowest category. I am from the region, and it is not the only Moravian-Silesian region where average salaries are lower. Look at the guaranteed wage in categories 5, 6, 7, how incredibly high it goes because it is tied to minimum wage, and what complications it already creates and can create especially for small employers in the coming years. And it should not be our job to make new adepts for the employment office, so that we can then spend more money on active unemployment policy. It shouldn't be. So I'm calling on the government to think about whether it's a good minimum wage to be tied up with guaranteed wages in all those categories because I feel a bigger problem there. We're still talking about those who are on minimum wage, roughly 200,000 employees, but the guaranteed wage concerns all employees - all of them. And by increasing the first, I'm increasing the next. Sometimes read the government's order in any form and look. Today we are all, or almost all, able to answer the question of what the minimum wage is, right now. What's the guaranteed wage in that category 5 or 6? Are we able to answer from a spot like this? Not me, I'd have to look at the chart on my computer. But I don't think many of you know either. But the employers, the small and small businessmen, they have to apply that every month. And if there's a dramatic increase in minimum wage again, I don't want to talk about it now, so see what it does with guaranteed wages. I would like to comment on this, for example, by the Minister of Industry, the Minister of Finance. What will it do to employment as a whole? Whether they're gonna die of jobs for these reasons? I'm afraid it might go away. The debate is, of course, wider. We have heard from the Minister that the minimum wage should be at least 50 per cent of the average wage. Well, then we're getting a little close to the jokes that minimum wage is supposed to be equal to at least average wage. It doesn't even work mathematically anymore. I'd like an analysis of how many employees are in these eight categories. And if we raise the minimum wage to some percentage, what does that do to the guaranteed wage? If we're able to even mathematically put it together, it doesn't even fit. Or maybe it's just a plan that we just order the wind of the rain and bring in wages, and then we wonder if it doesn't work at all. The debate is rather confusing. I don't know why the Minister is surprised that the right-wing party has a social aspect. I know why. Socialists confuse two words - socialist and socialist. That's a big difference. Right-wing conservative values are solidarity, compassion, helping a neighbor and those who are not allowed to help themselves. Whereas socialist is that I'm creating a group of people, even those who don't need help, and they're dependent on the state. This, then, is a group of voters very grateful to those who can help themselves and do not want to. But it is at the expense of those who need help from society and the state and do not get it at the level they deserve. And that is exactly the difference between the House and the Senate version. The Senate version is helping those who need help much more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. Therefore, if no one else applies, I am done with the debate. We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm gonna sing. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, pursuant to House Press 120/6, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House Press 120/7.' We've got an application for check-out, so I'm gonna check you out. Please log in with your voting cards again. I shall therefore begin the vote. Whoever is in favour of the resolution, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. In voting order number 7, 169 Members registered, for 69, against 69, abstained from 31. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. [[13.10 hours]] We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. So please set the kvorum, yes, it is already set. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, as amended, in which it was forwarded to the Senate, pursuant to House Press 120/6.' Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 8, 170 Members signed in for 170, versus zero. I state that we have adopted the bill. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] I hereby adjourn the meeting for an hour and a half, which means we'll meet again at 14.41am. Have a nice noon, enjoy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-001-001.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I'm gonna ask for some peace in the O.R. We'll continue. Before I open up any more points, I'll read you some of the note cards. Mr Julius Špičák apologizes to us from 12.00 to 13.30 for personal reasons. Mr Pavel Kováčik apologizes to us for the afternoon part of the meeting for work reasons, Mr Jan Birke apologises to us for work reasons from 15 pm and Mr Pavel Staněk apologises to us between 15 and 20 pm for family reasons. Thank you. Now, according to the approved programme, we have another, second point.
