ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u1	169. Request for consent Chamber of Deputies for criminal prosecution of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček At the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 21 September 2018, we are Resolution No. 342 have suspended this item and adjourned it until the next proper meeting. The mandate and immunity committee has discussed the request for consent and today you have been served on the bench by its resolution No. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 September 2011 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market and amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the I ask the Chairman of the Stanislav Grospič Committee to report to us on the discussion of a request from the Police of the Czech Republic for consent to the criminal prosecution of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. So, Chairman of the Committee, please, you have the floor. And I will ask the Chamber of Deputies for peace, so that we can hear the Member and be able to speak calmly. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, at the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, we started discussing a request from the District Directorate of Police Prague 2 to express the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. The discussion of this request of 10 August 2018 and delivered to the President of the Chamber of Deputies on 15 August of the same year was by resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 342 adjourned to another meeting. Therefore, today we will continue to interrupt the negotiations at which I would like to inform you that the consultation of the application has begun at its 15th meeting on 5 September 2018 and its discussion has ended at the 16th meeting on 25 September of the same year. The request of the police authority shall include the definition of the act in question and its legal qualifications envisaged, as required by the House's Rules of Procedure Act. These facts are then contained in the motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies, which has been distributed to you on the bench. In discussing the police authority's request, the mandate and immunity committee assessed whether the conditions for initiating criminal prosecution of a member of the Chamber of Deputies for whom a higher degree of likelihood of conclusion on the commission of a particular person is required are laid down in the immune case. In order to carry out this assessment, the Committee requested an opinion from the Security Services Archive on an anonymous submission to the Joint Committee, which contained a copy of the volumes of the Betting Officer. The members of the committee have become familiar with the criminal file at the premises of the police authority and after hearing the statements of the police commissioner, Lieutenant Mgr Jan Jaňovka and SA Mgr Tomáš Svoboda himself commented on the matter at the committee's meeting as well as Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. In this case, it is a clash of two fundamental human rights enshrined in the Czech legal order in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and in many international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound. The conflict of the right to freedom of expression, which, however, is not unlimited and has its limits, and the right to the protection of the person. A clash that's being dealt with in criminal proceedings. However, for publicly active persons, including politicians, criticisms are generally wider than for other people. This principle is based on the case law of the European Court of Human Rights as well as the courts of the Czech Republic. It can generally be stated, as the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic repeatedly stated in its finding, that persons publicly active must accept a greater degree of public criticism than other citizens. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] On the basis of the investigation carried out and the subsequent assessment of the matter, the mandate and immune committee then adopted a resolution that supported 10 members of the 16 members of the committee present, one abstention. This committee resolution will then be introduced to you by the Committee rapporteur, Mr Marek Benda. Thank you for your attention for the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I'll read one more apology. From 14.30 to the end of the day, Mr Jan Bartošek apologizes for working reasons. I will therefore now ask the rapporteur of the mandate and immunity committee, Mr Marek Benda, to take the floor. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u4	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be extremely brief. At its 17th meeting held on 25 September 2018, the mandate and immune committee, as already stated by its chairman, adopted Resolution No. 70, which...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u5	I'm gonna ask you to calm down... I will ask you really to calm down so that the Member can inform us of the conclusions of the mandate and immunity committee. So, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u6	Thank you. I. takes note of Lieutenant Mgr's statement. Jan Jaňovka, Commissioner of the District Directorate of Police Prague II, Mgr Tomáš Svoboda, State Attorney of the District Attorney for Prague II, Member of Zdeněk Ondráček and Member Marek Benda's intelligence report; II. not recommended The Chamber of Deputies agree to prosecute Mr JUDr. PhDr Zdeněk Ondráček, ., n.o.b. 28. 7. 1969; III. Instructs the President of the mandate and immunity committee to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. [[14.40 hours]] To request the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, the committee adopted resolution number 69, which you all have before you, which contains a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. I will then make this proposal in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u7	Thank you. I am now initiating a general debate. I would like to ask - I have two applicants here, Mr Rozvoral and Mr Jurečka, but with the fact that Mr Zdeněk Ondráček has asked me because he does not have the right to speak. Mr. Jurečka is not listening right now, but I would like to ask if you don't mind that Mr. Ondráček has asked me if he could step forward, and he doesn't have priority rights. It doesn't bother Mr. Rozvoral. So we would allow him to get off first, and then he could react like that. Thank you for your kindness. I will request a speech from Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, thank you two colleagues for allowing me to speak first. I was wondering if I could even get out and how to get out. I originally considered putting handcuffs on my hands and putting a tape over my mouth, but I lent the handcuffs to a friend, and she hasn't returned them yet. [[Laughs in the hall.]] And if I had a tape on my mouth, I'd be sick to talk. So I figured I wasn't gonna do the theatrics here, and I'm gonna normally talk the way I need to, and what I'm gonna say, because from everything that comes out, I can only have immunity as an MP at this speaker's desk anymore, so somebody's trying to tell me. So let me start by saying that I am very glad to be able to come forward and say my point of view. Let me read to you who are not members of the mandate and immunity committee at least part of the request of the police services criminal police and investigation of the District Directorate Prague II with the request. The description of the action I was about to take is described in the following way: Dr. Zdeněk Ondráček, born, in an interview for the Euro news server. cz in an article entitled Ondráček for EZ: I don't care about Horáček, it's not about the committee and me, it's about something completely different. This is the title of the article, which was published on the website www.euronews.cz 14. 12 2017 at 14.01. I gave one of my written answers to the editor's questions about Mr. Mgr Michal Horáček, D, born, false information consisting of claiming that Mr. Mgr Michal Horáček, D, in the past, worked as a so-called punk and worked with the State Security. In particular, he said - as I did: Horáček is, according to the information available, an ex-punter and a co-worker of StB with the code name sázkař - torn out by this sentence - and I stated it according to this request, knowing that this is an untrue figure, which is capable of a considerable extent - and please listen to this, that is quite essential - to endanger the good reputation and seriousness of Mgr Michal Horáček, ., for fellow citizens and at the same time cause him other serious damage in the form of possible negative influence on Mr Mgr's perception. Michal Horáček, D, in the eyes of potential voters with regard to the ongoing presidential election campaign Mr. Mgr was in. Michal Horáček, ., one of the candidates. Basically, I'm to blame for Mr. Mgr Michal Horáček, ., was not elected president of the Czech Republic. My answer, what is mentioned here in this request, my answer in the Euronews server.cz, which was printed 14. 12. 2017 was only a reaction to the articles that Mr Horáček has published against me since 4. 12. 2017. What exactly did I say? I take the liberty - because not all of you may have quoted. The editor asks me: A very visible campaign against you - against me - is led by Presidential candidate Michal Horáček, supported by many famous personalities. Do you watch what they say about you? My answer: Horáček is, according to the available information, a former Vekslák and a co-worker of the State Security with the code name sázkař. I don't give a shit about such a man, I don't seek out his outbursts of wisdom, but they get to me, and then I respond to some. - That was my answer. Next question: For example, you answer criticism on social networks. Have you considered choosing another option, for example, to meet Michal Horáček face-to-face and talk things out like men? I said, As I said, I don't give a damn about Horáček, like many others from the Prague cafe. Communication experts will tell you that discussing the brain, and I don't mean Mr. Horáček, but in general, there's no point. It might be awkward media comedy, but we have more than enough of those in our media. Next question: According to many, your past and active role in the crackdown on demonstrators in 1989 are problematic. Is there anything you would like to say to your critics in this context? My answer was: Police are intervening against protestors all over the world as well. If by any chance someone is questioning this, let them seek the intervention of our police, for example, at the International Monetary Fund meeting or the actual intervention of the Spanish police in Catalonia. Try to answer the question as to why there is a problem with Ondráček and not with other hundreds of former colleagues, including those who gave us orders. My answer is simple. I have the audacity to be a MP behind the KSČM. Yes, that's it. And the conversation continues. I would like to say to you, colleagues and colleagues, that every six months, that is, twice a year, came to the starting police school, which was called the Emergency Regiment of the Ministry of the Interior, about 400 new young men at the age of 19. With me 1. 8. 1988, 426 colleagues joined. 426 colleagues. You only know one thing, and that's me. Well, you know another one, but he's not exactly here. I have spoken to many of my colleagues, many of my colleagues are in a high police position, whether at the Police Presidium, or the Director of the Czech Police Department, and among us, I have always promised them that as long as one of them is on duty, I will not talk about our service. We have never broken the laws of the Czech Republic, we have been vetted and that is the end of it. What followed? 2. 1. 2018 Mr Mgr Michal Horáček, D is taking pictures at the District Attorney for Prague II and is announcing to everyone in the world that he is filing criminal charges against me. Why the District Attorney for Prague 2? Prague 2 - you probably know what territory it is, preferably Mrs. Mayor Jana Černochová, and Professor Válková reports, about this territory living - Prague 2, we know where in Prague it is, we do not need to define. After receipt of the notification, the prosecutor sends this complaint to the District Directorate Prague II, which covers Prague 2, 5, 13, 16. I would like to mention that the Euro news server. cz belongs to the media group Incorp, a. s., based in Prague 7. Let me also mention the Code of Criminal Procedure in this context. Section 18 of the Criminal Code is called local jurisdiction: Proceedings are held by a court in whose territory the offence was committed. If the crime scene cannot be established or the offence has been committed abroad, the court in whose territory the defendant lives, works or stays. If these places cannot be detected or are outside the territory of the Czech Republic, the proceedings shall be held by the court in whose territory the action has come to light. [[14.50 hours]] So why the District State Attorney Prague 2 and why the Prague II Police? I would like to say that my permanent residence is in Trutnov, I have an office in Hradec Králové, here I work in Prague 1. I have nothing to do with them in Prague 2, Prague 5, 13, or 16. What is also interesting is the fact that I have read in the media. The Police Authority of the District Directorate of the Police Prague II postponed the matter after the investigation was carried out. However, the prosecutor annulled his decision and ordered the prosecution to commence. State's Attorney, who is not competent locally. Either Prague 2 has nothing to do with it, or the prosecutor is so very active that he also acquires things that are locally inappropriate. I would like to say that neither Mr Mgr Michal Horáček, PHD, has no residence in Prague 2. So why did he choose Prague 2, I'll leave you to your consideration. In order to continue, we may need a little insight into history. In the first half of December 2016 - some of you were here, some of you weren't, it's behind the previous Houses - together with other 60 colleagues, I presented House Press number 961, which was supposed to introduce a criminal offence, or reinstate it, to be exact, because such a crime was there and is a criminal offence in many other states of Europe and the world, to defam the President of the Republic. This caused a very strong response especially from the Prague cafe and others and some colleagues, and I do not blame them, they did not have such will and such strength and signatures gradually withdrew. This House's 961 press has never been discussed in the previous term, but that is not important now. For me, the important thing is that I received information within the next three or four months that I would be criminalized. You hear me well - I'll be criminalized. Of course, as a former police officer, I immediately considered how I would be criminalized, and with the knowledge of the things you can find out, I remembered Mr. Jaroslav Štefc, I think he was a colonel who was investigating corruption at the Ministry of Defence. This guy, as much as I have a legal gun license and legal weapons, someone planted an illegal gun in a vehicle, and look, a criminal prosecution has begun. Mr. Col. Jaroslav Štefec was discredited to put an end to criminal proceedings later. So I guess a gun wouldn't pay much for me. There was another way. And I remembered Mr. Karel Daňhel, an expert in military technology, who cooperated and uncovered, or helped uncover the case of the CASA. He was accused of molesting girls, that's a pretty simple thing, and I publicly said a few years ago that even that threatens me if I don't put the lock on my mouth. Yes, most people know about me that I am active when I am almost 50 years old and I go to children's camps as a leader, but - and if such an attempt may have been made - I would like to say that my children, and I am willing to say my children, because I have been among them for many years, probably could not have been bought, or they are the children of my former colleagues, because the camp is police. So this isn't the way. Then the possibility of rape would come. That's a pretty nice crime, it'd be a few years' worth, it'd be a bond, it'd definitely be worth it. Well, imagine, I was involved in various social events during that period, until this accusation for slander was made or made, and until I began to tell myself how irresistible I was at my 50's, almost 50's, when at least two cases of beautiful young women hit on me, we had a nice chat and ended up being invited to a nearby home. What would follow, I was able to evaluate quite quickly. And I would like to say to whoever chose these women and girls, he had very good taste. I'm sure it'd be worth it. Unfortunately, it didn't even work out. So there's a crime of slander. I would like to say that for 25 years the Czech Republic and this Parliament of the Czech Republic, the independent Czech state, did not decide on this crime, and I think, and don't take me literally, I am not an expert that a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the Czechoslovak Republic, etc., has not been prosecuted for a hundred years in the history of Czechoslovakia. for this crime. OK, what can be done, I'm here and I'm standing in front of you for slander. I just wanted to ask if the prosecutor, who is not competent locally, knows the principle of subsidiarity criminal repression and the follow-up principle of ultima ratio. It says that criminal law must be applied to legal acts only in extreme cases in accordance with the auxiliary, that is, subsidiarityal role of criminal law in the rule of law and in society. I would like to translate it into a Czech language so that everyone who is not a lawyer understands it. It can therefore be said that the criminal code, like criminal law, protects at all the rights and legitimate interests of natural and legal persons and other entities, as well as the legitimate interests of society and the state, including the constitutional establishment of the Czech Republic only if the legal means of other legal sectors are not sufficient to protect them. And that would put us in the area of civil law. Civil law would then - I would have to ask another question if the prosecutor had ever read the Constitutional Court's finding under the file mark II ÚS 2051/2014 of 3. 2. 2015. If so, I believe that I do not, I would also like to read a part of this multi-page finding here: "As regards criticism in relation to publicly active persons, it is always necessary to consider whether the criticism of a particular person is affected in its professional sphere or sphere of private life. " We're going to think that the presidential candidate is a public figure, he's a politician. "On the basis of the above, the Constitutional Court makes the following more general grounds. In addressing the conflict between the fundamental right to freedom of expression and the fundamental right to the protection of dignity and the honor of an individual, account must be taken in particular of: 1. the nature of the operative part, i.e. whether it is a factual claim or a value court; 2. the content of the statement whether it is political or commercial; 3. the form of the operative part, in particular the extent to which the operative part in question is expressive or even vulgar; 4. the status of a critical person, e.g. whether the person is a public or even an active person in political life or a publicly known person; 5. whether the statement concerns the private or public sphere of the person being criticised; 6. the behaviour of a critical person, e.g. whether it provoked the criticism itself or how it subsequently opposed the criticism; 7. who states whether they are journalists etc.; and finally, when they will do so, that is to say whether the author had or could have had at that time the specific data on which he was based and in which situation he did so. [[15.00 hours]] Interpretation of the concept of truth. If" - I am still quoting from the Constitutional Court's finding: "If an individual had to be quite certain before making a statement of fact that he is in absolute harmony with the objective state of reality without any conceivable doubt, he should probably, strictly speaking, in many life situations rather be silent. " Yes, he should just keep quiet. That's what this is about. That's what this is all about to keep me quiet. Dear colleagues, let me return to the 19th of January 2018 when Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who said: "We live in a country where you can order prosecution and order, probably put someone in jail." This was said by Prime Minister Babiš and was responded to by several Members. Let me quote some of them. A fellow Member, Pavel Blažek, must be running around somewhere, said: "But if you say so here," meaning, Prime Minister, "that it is possible to order prosecution in this country - you have been responsible for police and prosecutors for four years and for the judiciary - so what have you done to make this impossible? Nothing." Mr Stanjura responded: "How many times have we heard here and elsewhere from lawyers that the prosecutor is the master of the preparatory procedure. " So if you take the specific case mentioned by the President, he spoke of Mrs Vitásková, the former President of the ERO. Who was the master of the preparatory procedure, who could in the five years mentioned by the Prime Minister? And it's a case that has been referred to now in connection with the award of state honors by President Miloš Zeman. Mr Jan Birke also responded, who said: "I just want to say that what we have heard from the Prime Minister here, I understand him. I was in the Hradec Králové Region when 300 police officers came for two papers a month before the election, sealed the offices and left the evening and said - we'll get back to you. No one's heard from anyone until today, no one's been charged, charged, and so on. I myself, as mayor, spent eight hours interrogating for poisoning half the Republic with arsenic. Tonight, it's just a national sport for anyone who sits on a computer tonight, writes a criminal report, and it falls on all of us sitting here, and on all the local politicians sitting in this country. What do you wonder?" My colleague Birke nods. I'm only quoting from the log. I added a little bit to this discussion when I mentioned that I know cases of special-purpose accusations, and I only applied it to police officers. And I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that you, too, know, for example, the latest case of the prosecution of fellow officer Šimon Vaiec, who stopped a running biker. Even if it isn't a final verdict, the First Instance Court has stopped the prosecution. I could mention Captain Mgr's case. Rostislav Kotrč, my former colleague from ÚOKFK, who has been deported for more than five years for disclosure of classified information, misuse of authority of an official person and so on. And I think it just coincidentally happened on Parliamentary Leaves, where I saw it on the page when Captain Kotrč talks about his case. Colleagues and colleagues in the ANO movement may know, I will not name, a man who works in Agrofert, whose brother has also been prosecuted for more than two years. Given that they couldn't exactly touch him, even his prosecution was stopped. And I have no choice but to ask myself who's to blame and who's comfortable with this condition. And I have a fairly simple answer. I mentioned Prime Minister Babiš, there is also Mr. Faltýnek, who was prosecuted, but the prosecution has been stopped. I'm asking what's so really complicated about Prime Minister Andrej Babiš's criminal case that he's already being investigated by the police more than -- and now I don't know, time passes very quickly -- three years? Three years. If I take it that the cases that are taking place with us are one-third in the police force, then two-thirds in the court. That means if it's over now, the next six years will be the trial. Nine years. Does it seem normal for you to be dragging someone around for nine years? And then it ended up, like, exonerating a judgment? No, this condition suits those who are now. The Prime Minister is criminally prosecuted, which means any reform of justice, whatever he wants to do, it's an attack on the independence of those pre-trial masters. Colleagues from the Civil Democratic Party if they hear the VSZ, they're getting pimples because they know very well how their former prime minister ended up and how the whole case ended. So, yes, there was Professor Válková, who may have done a lot of things because she could, but she couldn't stand, say, duel or internal pressure inside the movement, she was dismissed. Subsequently, Mr Pelikán, the Minister of Maintenance, and I told him many times that it would be better if he had completed his mission at the Ministry of Justice if he wanted to do something for justice. Unfortunately, it lasted to the end. My colleague Malá, despite all she has been through and how I have been able to get to know her on the Constitutional Legal Committee, I think she might be a good minister, because as a manager, she seems very good and professionally qualified. Today there is a minister who is not here, unfortunately he is basically invisible. So this condition is satisfactory, and it's preserving the condition. And nothing's gonna change until the Prime Minister, who should be sitting behind me, is prosecuted because the condition in his condition is just fine with someone here. Ladies and gentlemen, let me basically just get two messages before I conclude. There will be one message for the press. I could accompany him with a gesture that Mr Kalousek once mentioned when he referred to the Prime Minister as number one. I don't need to do this. I'll tell you, gentlemen of the press, you're a media cesspool to me, that's just it and that's it. I'm afraid I have to treat you like this sometimes. What you're doing to me and to me is just sometimes beyond the edge. But thank you anyway, because I have hundreds of fans, whether on social media or anywhere else. So thank you, you're number one without any gesture. And then allow me a second message, and it's very personal, which I'm going to tell my wife. Please hold on because, as the Prime Minister said, in this country last year, 1,150 people were prosecuted and sentenced, thanks to God's independent courts, to whom we paid compensation of CZK 80 million. When this is over, the taxpayer will pay us a great vacation. Colleagues, colleagues, in conclusion let me remind you of Article 23 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic para. 3, and it is a Member's promise: "I pledge my allegiance to the Czech Republic, I promise to uphold its Constitution and laws. I promise on my honour that I will carry out my mandate for the sake of all the people and according to my best knowledge and conscience." So please also vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u9	That was MP Zdeněk Ondráček. And now I'm going to read the apology that landed on my desk. Member Lubomír Španěl apologizes between 16 and 19 o'clock due to the hearing. Member Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes from 14.30 pm to the end of the day and at the same time until the end of this week, until 2. 11. 2018 inclusive. And Mr Karel Tureček apologizes between 15 and 19 o'clock for work reasons. Now I have one factual one here, so Member Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u10	Thank you for the floor. I really didn't mean to comment on this very unusual speech. However, I was mentioned in relation to one gesture and there was completely false information here that I marked this gesture by the Prime Minister when he spoke of me being number one. It wasn't like that at all, and I'm sure the memorials remember that by this gesture, I don't even remember what it was like anymore, but that's what President Topolánek called the Communists. [[Resurrection in the Hall]] The Communists also protested very much, and then I explained in the discussion that unlike them, I understood the gesture by the Prime Minister saying: Kalousek, you are number one. So that's how it was. You have said it completely the other way around, through the President, Mr Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u11	That was Mr Kalousek. Another factual one. I request to speak to Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kalousek, through Mr President, I apologize, at that time I was still serving the state and I only saw it on television. Yes, it was like you said. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u13	Thank you. I will now ask for a speech in the general debate of Mr Radek Rozvoral. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the Government, allow me to comment on the request of the Police of the Czech Republic on the extradition of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to prosecute and on our work in the mandate and immune committee dealing with this issue. To begin with, the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement refuses to support the efforts of the unsuccessful presidential candidate, Mr Michal Horáček, to criminalise Members of Zdeněk Ondráček for his verbal criticism, thereby making himself publicly visible. Our decision is not based on the support of Mr Ondráček and his political actions. It is based on the fact that Mr Horáček wants to criminalise a political competitor for the things he himself does and in other cases approves. Mr Horáček has no moral claim to criticism of other people's actions. He is a manipulator who insulted not only members of the SPD and played the false role of the moral arbiter of Czech politics. The wind was arrogant in politics, and now he's whining that he's reaped the storm. In the whole matter, it must be borne in mind that both Mr Ondráček and Mr Horáček as a candidate for president are both politically exposed persons who must accept a greater degree of public criticism than other citizens. At least this describes the Constitutional Court's finding of a conflict of rights to freedom of expression and the right to the protection of the personality of publicly active persons in 2014, including the following - I quote: "In general, the limits of acceptable criticism are broader with politicians than with private individuals and that persons publicly active, i.e. politicians, public officials, media stars and others, must accept a greater degree of public criticism than other citizens. " End quote. Everyone who sits here has certainly met at least once with some criticism or slander from our political competition behind our course of politics. And if we were to deal with this every time, we wouldn't be doing anything else. I therefore warn against such criminalisation of politics, as I believe it is very dangerous. If Mr Horáček feels wrong, he has the opportunity to file a civil suit. Finally, let me convey the opinion of the SPD MP on the request of the Police of the Czech Republic on the extradition of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Since all of these arguments that I have made here have also been expressed in the overwhelming majority by colleagues across the political spectrum at the meeting of the mandate and immune committee, my colleague Míla Rozner and I recommended that the SPD Parliamentary Club vote against the extradition of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček for prosecution, and we both voted on the mandate and immunity committee as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u15	Thank you. Now I'll read two apologies. Minister Dan Ťok apologizes from 16.30 pm to the end of the day for reasons of work. And Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes from 15 a.m. to the end of today's meeting. We have two requests for factual comments. Mr. Farský... or the general? And, Mr Barton, are you de facto or general? In general. So the first one goes to the Farský MP. Mr Bartoň will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the position of the Mayor's Membership and Independent Club, which we have come to after the debate. We're not a trial. We are only discussing whether, in this case, to apply immunity and not to prosecute one of the Members, who, from our point of view, has committed quite a great deal of interference by attacking another politician from this building and protecting this territory, a citizen of the Czech Republic. And when we were considering whether this is the situation for which immunity is to apply, for which the protection is to apply, to be free in our statements, free in our opinions, and to be able to say what we really want, we assessed that these cases were not covered. We're not superhumans in that we could afford to attack anyone from here, attack anyone, and then say, "We have immunity, we don't have these laws on us, and we're gonna wait until we're here in this building and we're put off the prosecution for the duration of our duties." We've assessed that this is not right because we're dealing with one big problem in our society, which is constantly increasing and increasing, and that's the roughness of communication in public space. It's not just a question of social networks where everyone can find different attacks. Whether in private news or even in various comments it certainly finds them. What the debaters wouldn't tell you to your face, what they wouldn't say in society, on the street, and I'm glad it doesn't, so communication on social networks becomes standard. And if we see here at the same time that one of us is performing in a way that is beyond the edge of decent communication, where people outside this Chamber are attacking people in a way that is really moving communication to a level that is not supposed to happen, then we, whether we like it or not, whether we attach it to our function or not, of course, are sending a certain standard of behavior, behaviour and communication to society. And this isn't okay. Saying that he's a big boy and a co-worker of St.B. without me having a hard time, does that mean that next time we're gonna attack? To ourselves, we can still afford that. But how to attack outside this building? How far do we move the boundaries of common communication between people before this communication becomes a standard? And what's the next step? I think that's exactly the moment we shouldn't be overstepping. And we should also be responsible for how we act, how we communicate, because that way affects the whole society. That is why we have assessed this as a situation that does not really hide under immunity. This is not for any political speech in the Chamber of Deputies, it is not for expressing his opinion on any other direction of anyone else. That's a simple rumor. The police also evaluated it and asked us to issue it. I can agree with my colleagues, and I agree that the citizen can, of course, also deal with this situation in civil proceedings and let him deal with it. But at the same time, I wouldn't deny him the opportunity to file a criminal complaint. And like any ordinary citizen, there would be criminal proceedings. There's no reason for it not to happen with a colleague named Ondráček. That's why we're going to vote for the release as a club. Let's not live behind glass, let's not live in an aquarium, let's live like ordinary people. And we are not responsible for our actions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u17	So that was Mr. Farský. We have two applications, two factual points, so I call on Mr Milan Feranc to comment. And Mr Pavel Plzák will be prepared. Well, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Really just a brief reaction to what Mr Farský said before me. I'm a member of the mandate and immunity committee, so I had a chance to get to know the police's request. If I cut to the chase, what was that all about? One politician reported false information about another politician. Which is wrong. And now I'm just going to ask: how many current MEPs have written in the media, for example, about President Zeman, that he is a Russian agent, etc.? Did something happen? Nothing happened. Let's be court-martialed, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u19	Thank you, and Mr Pavel Plzák's factual remark, and with factual remarks, they have yet to come forward and Mr Kalousek and Mr Benešík will be prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u20	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government, one thing frightens me. I'm not a lawyer to judge guilt, innocence. But what is important is that Mr. Ondráček said that he is merely coming from public sources. And imagine that each of us here would be worth a quote somewhere, what he read on the Internet or somewhere, and he emphasized that he was coming from this public source. He doesn't claim to have a patent on the truth. Is it slander, or isn't it? I don't know. I, when this case came to the House, clicked, entered Mr. Horáček's name into my search engine, and he really showed up with the StB file with the cover name of the sázkař Man, etc. Then it is actually stated that he was expelled from college because he reported some false information when he wanted to go to the United States. And he worked as a warehousekeeper, so I remembered the movie Bony and the peace of mind, when every big guy had that doorman of his who worked for him somewhere, etc., etc. And the fact that Mr. Horáček was gambling and betting on horses, we all know that, and he's not even hiding it. So I don't know in the future if I can even say that I'm coming out of some kind of public source and even quote. I'm not the one who always has to talk and know it's true. But I'll stress that I don't know, but I think I can quote it for God's sake! We'd all be standing behind that counter in no time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u21	Thank you. Mr Miroslav Kalousek will now speak with the de facto Member and Mr Farský will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u22	Thank you for the floor. Just a brief response to Mr Plzák, who compared this situation to a situation where anyone calls the President of the Republic a Russian agent. Sorry, sorry, for the previous speaker. When anyone calls the President of the Republic - Mr Feranec - when anyone calls the President of the Republic a Russian agent. These two cases have nothing to do with each other. Rumor is defined as false.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u23	Thank you. Now with the de facto Member of Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad for the performances that took place here, because she's proving how we feel that we're kind of the kind of judge who's supposed to decide what's true, what's lying, what's going on hasn't happened. But that's the wrong one! We just decide whether or not immunity applies to an act that's happened. And now all we have to decide is whether everyone here can attack anyone with any unsubstantiated information, or whether we'll verify our information and whether we'll be responsible for it when we say it. And I don't want us here to be a congregation of irresponsible, who will not only be among themselves, but also on the outside shoot out various insults and accusations and then say, "But you can't, you can't, you don't have responsibility for me, I have immunity." That's wrong! This is an incredibly negative message to society, on the one hand, that we are making ourselves more than other citizens, and, on the other hand, that we are incredibly damaging to the social debate and communication. And to refer to the fact that he saw it somewhere on public networks - well there you can read things! Corsa when you surf the Parliamentary Sheets or AC24.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u25	Thank you. The Vice-President of the House of Okamura will now speak with a factual remark, for which I will take over the proceedings of the meeting for the duration of his appearance. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, the SPD will not support the extradition. Mr. Michal Horáček is a liar, a cheater, and a manipulator who insults SPD voters. For example, he wrote about SPD - quote: SPD is a problem. Did you see who these people are? He should apologize to the SPD first. He also said that Okamura, who tweaked his own party. In doing so, I have been investigated by the police on the basis of a criminal report and no such evidence has been shown to me. So this guy here is asking for someone to be released? We don't really care who. There's no way he's gonna have our votes. Let him apologize first to the members of the SPD for his false, fraudulent and manipulative statements. Let him stop lying about others, and let him apologize first to our 540,000 voters, who he permanently insulted. As far as immunity is concerned, I was the one who was always in favour of restricting parliamentary immunity. Even as a senator, I voted actively to restrict the immunity of Members and Senators. We don't want to defend anyone because they have immunity. If anyone here gives such a proposal for restrictions, we have no problem supporting him. But here's another matter. This is a matter of voting here on Mr Horáček's proposal, virtually. The police, and it's a proposal from a person who lies permanently, cheats, insults, and it just can't be done. That's different. It's different than if there was some criminal case, some kind of economic character, etc. So I wanted to say clearly: we're not in favour of having some strong immunity idol, or if anyone wants to limit it, then why not, let's talk about it. But Mr. Horáček's case, specifically this one case - he should apologize, not someone else apologizing to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u27	Thank you. President Kováčik, with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand with flattery what my colleague Farský said. He's part of that group, at least that's how I see it, politicians who have double standards. While attacking, insulting, lying about communists, about the Prime Minister, the president is fine, some others cannot be touched. We here decide whether political disputes will continue to be criminalized - but only in some - or whether we will still be able to talk about these matters openly, at least in politics, in our disputes of the right-left or north-south or any other closed mouth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u29	President Kalousek with a point of fact, after which Mr Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u30	Thank you. Colleagues, really very factual. We're not whistling the Horáček-Ondráček dispute here. We don't even decide on Mr. Master Horáček's request, as Vice-President Okamura said. We decide on the request of the Police of the Czech Republic as a designated legal body, which has concluded that a criminal offence has been committed here. That's what we decide, that's all. And I wouldn't like to be lured into the fact that we're whistling the Horáček-Ondráček dispute. That is why I find it very unfortunate that Master Horáček chose the path of criminal law. In my opinion, he should have chosen the way of civil law, then it would have really been a dispute between these two people and it would have been decided by an independent court. Why on earth should we decide that? [[15.30 hours]] But we decide on the police's request, not the Mgr's request. Horáček. And that raised a rhetorical question in me about Vice-President Okamura, who said he couldn't accommodate the request of a man who spoke so badly of the SPD. Vice-President Okamura, through Mr President, does this mean that if he speaks well of you, you will give up Ondráček without any problems? Well, that actually kind of proves the same thing about this act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u31	Well, thank you. And so now we have four factual points, virtually. applications, so Mr Marek Výborný and Mr Ondřej Benešík will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear government, colleagues, colleagues. By means of you, I personally wanted to say what has already been said here. Indeed, the request that arrived at the mandate and immune committee was not from Michal Horáček, it was from the Police of the Czech Republic, or an institution active in criminal proceedings. That's just the way it is. And I also find it smiling to take into account the loving or unloving relationship between Michal Horáček and the SPD, which does not really belong here. And maybe we'll take the Constitution, and there's clearly written and defined immunity to what it relates to, and we'll decide accordingly. We're not really here to make any decisions about guilt or punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u33	Well, thank you. And now Mr Benešík, Mr Benešík, in fact, will be prepared by Mr Žáček. And I have a Mr. Foldyna written here - was that also factual? Mr. Ambassador, you're de facto, too? Are you in order? [[Officer Foldyna shows he's not interested.]] Nothing. Okay. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u34	Thank you for the floor. Well, unlike a whole series of speakers, I'm not gonna say immunity sucks. I've always held that immunity is for something, is meant to do its purpose, and maybe let's talk about its parameters. And now there's a bunch of speakers who justify a change of heart, depending on who's voted on. I don't have a problem with this. I personally think immunity has its meaning, and I'm not just gonna tell my constituents on Wednesday anything other than Thursday, as someone says, and then write facebook statuses that actually in this case it's different. And I would also like to point out that we are not really voting on Mr Horáček. Mr. Horáček is the one who filed a criminal report to the police, and it came from the police. We're not going to vote on whether we like Mr. Horáček or not. And if someone's making a shortcut like that, they just don't understand what we're voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u35	Well, thank you. And with de facto the last Mr Pavel žáček. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u36	Thank you for the floor. I was one of the previous speakers provoked to comment on the State Security records. I think I can call myself an expert on these things after 25 years. I would definitely not bagate this - and the Czech public waited twenty years for it to be published, published, today they are published on the website of the state institution Archive of the security forces, in Slovakia on the website of the ÚPN, or today everyone, including Members, can click, see if the volume of the sázkař Man, or any other, is a bundle kept in the category of agent or monitored person. I think it is necessary to make a very serious distinction and not get to that stage, that we will label someone without simply finding out what the situation is like on the web or on our mobile phone. That the designation of someone as a State Security agent is a serious matter, we can see it on two of our own. Mr. Vojtěch Filip sued in the 1990s and it came to a result, and Prime Minister Babiš still judges for the designation, even judges our partner Slovak Republic in Strasbourg. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u37	Well, thank you. And now another factual one, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip, and then, if not de facto, Mr Bartoň is waiting patiently, perhaps you will get to the floor. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u38	Thank you. I'm just being serious. To my colleague Žáček - he could say that I won the dispute, but he couldn't say that, there's nothing I can do. The Home Office hasn't even recanted. But the second thing is important, what my colleague Benešík said. I think it's important. We really do not decide the dispute between our colleague Ondráček and the presidential candidate Horáček. I really don't. We decide whether there is freedom of speech for Members, or just for newspaper publishers, because even some editors do not have freedom of speech because they simply do not give it to them. And so if you want to limit freedom of speech in this way that no one can say anything at all, because it offends another - and here I agree with my colleague Kalousek, with whom I rarely agree that if there was a civil action, it would be completely different. He could have done that. But since it wasn't a dispute itself, but it was just a matter of getting my colleague Horáček more visible, he made a free criminal report. Oh, gross.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u39	Well, thank you. And with Mrs Jana Černochová in fact. Your two minutes, madam. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. For the record, I would like to ask my fellow Members from the mandate and immunity committee what Mr Ondráček here has been saying to you through what questions he has asked here. Since this was mentioned by the District Attorney of Prague 2, there was information that the II Czech Republic postponed the matter, but that the State Attorney's Office did not, if the locality here really is correct. Because these are the things that belong to the House. Indeed, the Chamber of Deputies should not whistle a dispute between Mr Ondráček and Mr Horáček. We should deal with the procedural issues, if everything really happened okay, if there's no doubt that this could be a political order. I don't know. Prague 2 canceled all the games, so it is possible that it was found that when someone had or did not have the name sázkař, so that the State Attorney 2 will be objective because there are no games. [[with a smile]] No, I don't want to make fun of this. I think there are a number of colleagues who have said it, and a lot have been said by Mr. Benešík. We as Members endure various attacks from different people, and we have to accept that in some way. I want to ask you a question, and I want to ask you a rhetorical question: When does a person become a politician? When he's running or when he's elected? What would happen, colleagues and colleagues, if Mr Horáček were elected president? Would there be a lawsuit or didn't there be a lawsuit? Could Mr. Ondráček sue Mr. Horáček for damages? Well, he couldn't, because the president isn't criminally responsible. That is why I will refrain from voting on Mr Ondráček's extradition. [[The President draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u41	That was Mrs Černochová. And now, then, Mr Bartoň, you have been waiting a long time before there is any de facto. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the opinion of the Pirates Club. Before that, I would like to address Mr Ondráček through the President. I'm not sure if from his speech - that's what I said, thank you. [[from the diaper someone points to middlemanship]] I'm not sure if his speech made it clear whether he agreed to the release, or if he didn't agree to the release, if he could supplement it. And I would have responded to Mrs Černochová. Prague II - it doesn't seem weird to me personally given that when I went to look at the file, so Prague II, head office, opposite Smíchov railway station, it is ten minutes by tram from here, it seemed to me to be a pretty close jurisdiction. I can't judge, I don't know the background. [[There's laughter from the left.]] I would like to say that this dispute is not about freedom of speech, it is not about criticism of another policy, it is about a simple fact. Mr. Ondráček stated that Mr. Horáček was a co-worker of StB, although he does not have a single source for this, he could not quote anything, so it is clear from him that he was not. So it's the truth or the lie. It's digital, it's one, zero. [[15.40 hours]] If we do not give Mr Ondráček up, we actually admit that any Member can freely tell lies about other politicians. If Mr. Ondráček has any other evidence for his claim than publicly known, we will, unfortunately, deprive ourselves of any further truth about Mr. Horáček's absence of trial. For these and other reasons, the members of the Pirates will vote in favour of Mr Ondráček's extradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u43	Thank you. Now I have three factual points here, but the first one was the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura club, but if you're in general, then you have to wait, or if you're in de facto, right now. You'll wait. I shall first ask with the de facto Mrs Jana Levová. Mr Ondráček and then Mr Kováčik will be prepared. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u44	Thank you for the floor. I would like to return to my predecessor, Mr Kalousek, through Mr President. I wanted to ask how he voted in January 2018, 24 January, when Mr Liberty was voted on. I looked, and you voted not to be published.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u45	Thank you. Now, Mr Ondráček, with a factual view. Please. Mr. Kováčik will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u46	Thank you, Mr President. At the very end, and I thought I was speaking slowly enough that colleagues of the pirát might be able to perceive it, so for you especially once more. The very conclusion, I will read to you one more time what I said: "Colleges, colleagues, vote according to the promise you have made, with reference to Article 23 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 Constitutions of the Czech Republic: I pledge my allegiance to the Czech Republic, I promise to uphold the Constitution and the Laws, I promise to carry out my mandate in the interests of all the people and according to my best knowledge and conscience." That's what I said. I thanked you for your attention, and that's it. I'm not gonna influence any of you on how to vote. It's your choice. You made a promise that I just recited to you, and you fulfill it. And if you're talking about lies and truths, it's only the courts who decide that. I'm in the legal position of the suspect or the accused. Honor the presumption of innocence. Thank you. If you know what it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u47	That was Mr. Ondráček. Mr Kováčik, President of the KSČM Club. Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u48	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, and this is how we can argue in the evening, or in the morning, and we won't overdo it. It is clear to me from this discussion that I have already said here that, therefore, anyone can tell any lie about any Member and that Member must not defend himself, because when he defends himself, he is immediately subject to criminal charges. I'm based on the fact, and remember how it was then that my colleague Ondráček was elected chairman of a commission, or whatever it was, and a certain part of, say, the political plane of society, especially on the right, was raised, well, it's called the Prague cafe, so you know clearly, and set off with the attack against Zdeněk Ondráček. And we have heard many insults at his address, even at the address of the Communist Party, even after all to the address of the ANO movement and the Prime Minister, or then the Chairman of the Babiš movement, President Miloš Zeman. There were red cards running around, and it wasn't exactly gently in the glove and choice of parlor language. And when Zdeněk Ondráček, as a victim, tried to defend himself, he immediately came screaming about indecency and all that. I personally, and you know that I have voted in favour of this issue many times, in this case it is purely politics, purely political dispute, we are politicians here, we are here to lead these disputes, to which the voters have sent us, I will not vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u49	That was Mr. Kováčik. And now, Mr. Ferjenčík. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u50	Thank you for the floor. I generally disagree with the crime of slander. I think that, in general, this is to be dealt with in civil law, but if we have it, let it apply to everyone, even to Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u51	Thank you. Now, therefore, for the general debate, President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u52	Thank you for the floor. I think for the third time in this parliamentary term, if memory doesn't deceive me, we decide to issue or not to publish. And at those debates, at least for me, the most valuable thing is the general debate. Not a debate on the particular case. Here we are burdened with political sympathy, political dislike, personal sympathy, personal antipathy, etc. There's a lot of talk about freedom of speech today. And I am a great fan of freedom of speech, and I am in favour of freedom of speech being also for those politicians who are Members who have also beaten young women for showing freedom of speech. It has to be true for them, too. Either the freedom of speech is or it isn't. That's a general remark. The second thing, and quoted here also by the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, freedom of speech is not impeccable. And there are certain boundaries, and those boundaries are ultimately judged by an independent court. It is very simple to insult politics, because our courts judge that we politicians have a lower level of personal protection. We have to take that as a fact. We may not like it, but it's a fact. The problem we are dealing with today was that one of the politicians decided to deal with insults and untruths under criminal law from his point of view. If he had handled this differently, as many previous speakers have said, we would not have dealt with the problem. But I want to get back to the general position, and I miss the Minister of Justice here. At least for the second time in these three cases, four, I'm sorry, here are the words that we can order prosecutions and convictions. [[Warning: four]] Those are extremely serious words. At that time, I called on the then Minister of Justice to comment. He kept his mouth shut. And today I'd like to call on the Minister of Justice, who isn't here. I don't get it. Where is he? That point was firmly placed. We all knew we were going to discuss him. Who else, if any, should answer questions in the field of legislation or the interpretation of the law or the Constitution or the opinion of individual provisions of the Criminal Code or the Constitution to Members and Members other than the Minister of Justice? He's not here. The government is making fun of us. I know we're used to having one sitting here on the clock to do his pine. And then he'll run away fast again and another will come. And this isn't a serious debate. When I was quoted in Mr Ondráček's speech, I would like to repeat it. I said that, in particular, prosecutors like to say that the state's attorney is the master of the preparatory procedure. This was not a commendation on my part, or an enthusiasm on this side, it was just a quote of what we hear very often. But let's see, if they criticize the work of the D.A.'s opposition MPs, they don't listen to them, and they say it's actually a good thing, the odees are still complaining. What do they want? Serves them right. When things turn around, we're different about it. We say it's a problem, and if anyone has that feeling, let's solve it. What has the Minister of Justice done to ensure that the master of the preparatory procedure is competent locally? I don't know if it's true or not, abused or abused, had an extensive interpretation, or didn't. The power of these people is enormous. However, when the Government's position suits the position of the Attorney General or the Attorney General, they like it very much in a political struggle, they use the argument. Look, the opposition, even the Attorney General, supported us. He has doubts, too. Isn't that responsible for the functioning of the Supreme Attorney's system? The answer is very simple. It is. And what does the Minister of Justice do? If at least he loses his critical word, either to criticize his colleagues, that it's not true, or to ask the Attorney General to check whether it's true or not. I don't know, and I'm not gonna be a judge here in this dispute. But I find it unbelievable when the Prime Minister, the MP, complains and says that criminal prosecutions can be ordered, even convictions. And then what about a normal citizen who doesn't have the status? What's he supposed to think? Then how do these authorities treat him when they do this to the Prime Minister in his own words or to the MPs in his own words? I'm not saying it's true. But the silence from the Minister of Justice is reprehensible. Here we go the second time. [[15.50 hours]] And please don't make such blind comparisons, colleague. When we voted on the extradition of my colleague, Mr Svoboda, we voted on the vote for a political opinion. If Mr Ondráček had been asked by the police to give him up for, for example, how he voted in the municipal council, I know he was a representative - in the city council, I apologize to the mayor - I would be opposed regardless of political affiliation. [[Plot notification]] Also, when it happened to an ANO colleague and the police asked for a vote, not just me, but our club was totally against it, because that's another matter. But here we are not talking about the political decision, for example, of Mr Ondráček, when he voted in the council. We're talking about other things. I don't know which member of the government... I will ask the present members of the government to comment on the opinion of their Prime Minister, Member and Coalition Member, that we can order prosecution and conviction. [[Only Minister Ťok, Minister Vojtěch and Minister Dostálová are present in the hall]] I don't know if the Minister of Transport or the Minister of Health or the Minister of Local Development will tell me. And I don't care, you make a deal, there's three of you. Government torso. It's a serious matter, such a publicly pronounced, repeatedly publicly pronounced accusation. Say something already. Don't sit there like hell thinking you might have some kind of law after that. But most of all, I would criticize the absence of the Minister of Justice. He was just supposed to sit here. If it had been the first time, he might have been surprised. I remember when he was nominated, so the journalists asked the future Minister of Justice whether he minded or didn't mind the criminally prosecuted Prime Minister. He said he didn't mind. I'd ask him another question. I'd ask him if he's upset or doesn't mind the Prime Minister saying publicly that we can order prosecutions and convictions. And I'm asking that question to the Minister of Justice today, even if he's absent. And I'd ask him for an answer. Because where are we going to move this debate? Let's not get ahead of ourselves. Freedom of speech applies to everyone, even those who beat people for freedom of speech. And that's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u53	That was Mr Stanjura. Now I have Mrs Válková, but at the same time you are registered for a factual, general one. I guess it's general, isn't it? You're not limited in time. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. That's a good point. I originally wanted to be factual, but because I often can't do it in those two minutes, but I'm going to try to be brief. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, as former Minister of Justice, I cannot represent my colleague, the current Minister of Justice, Minister Kněžínek, but I still have some experience, so I would like to comment on some things. First of all, those rhetorical questions, such as whether I can order prosecutions, we all know that de lege lata, or according to applicable legislation, and in every democratic legal society, we cannot order such prosecutions. We can order it, but, of course, we risk doing so only by ordering at least preparation for a particularly serious crime or some form of participation. We don't have to discuss that here. So you can't. Well, that's one answer we all know. The second is more complicated, because in a society where some cases are solved so that the public loses confidence in justice and its fair and impartial course of action, there may be suspicion that someone ordered the prosecution. And then someone who doesn't exactly express themselves - and here I think we don't choose whether it's someone who's dealing with fixing things, like in the household, or if it's a member of the government - so by not expressing exactly what part of the public thinks, it may give the impression that such a course of action is legal, precisely because he says, virtually. that this is an acceptable activity because, unfortunately, this is happening in this company. Here's the same answer. It shouldn't be happening. If this is the case, there are also relevant provisions of the Criminal Code, which, in the most serious cases, criminalise the criminal offence correctly, let alone without prejudice. And the third plane concerns the most subtle things where it seems to us that even the righteous course of justice is interfered with by someone who exploits, for example, some political or financial position to influence the outcome of such a decision. I think that even here we need to be very careful about what we are saying, because if we have no evidence, as my previous speaker, Mr Stanjura, has said by your means, Mr President, then, of course, he can commit a crime of slander. So if I were to sum up, I think that the present Minister of Justice would probably answer you roughly in this spirit and assure you that the resort for which he is responsible will do everything to make sure that neither the first, nor the second, nor the third, plane never became a normal reality. However, I myself, when I am a Member of citizens' complaints, have to say that I am very unhappy with a number of activities that give the impression in the area of criminal prosecution that they are not conducted in the optimal sense of the word, that is, very impartial and fair, and judge unbiased evidence in favour and in favour of those who are suspected of criminal activity. And now we have come to know one case where he was specifically appointed - at least that's how I understood it, so that Mr Ondráček can correct me through you, Mr Vice-President - a prosecutor who, although the police officer who investigated his case wanted to postpone the case, had instructed him to continue. In my practice, I meet Members with such cases not today and daily, but I would like to say almost every week on Monday, because my office is frequented by those who either do not have an attorney or trust me. In both cases, I have met statistically significantly frequently with cases where prosecutors, and I am a criminal lawyer, even in cases that are proven to be weakly substantiated, persist, and even give their superiors instructions to give appeals if the case even goes to trial and there is an exoneration - I have several cases recently - the evidence of the prosecution is convincingly refuted, and yet the prosecutor will appeal on the spot. We can ask ourselves here if this is how the D.A. imagines the optimal way to conduct criminal trials. I am aware that, of course, the Supreme Prosecutor bears his responsibility for the policy he applies within the system of prosecutors. Moreover, there is still a certain weak point that Mr Ondráček pointed out in his speech, and that is a local jurisdiction, which is not so... or in practice there are no violations of the Criminal Code and other standards governing the local and factual jurisdiction of the prosecutor's office, as it might give an impression here. However, in this respect, I think that the stricter supervision of senior prosecutors would be appropriate and could not happen what happened here, where we really need to consider why the prosecutor was the appropriate prosecutor and it wasn't someone else. There are many cases, see the case of Rath. The Supreme Court case-law has also been very critical of this, and I think the government's room for manoeuvre has now been clarified and narrowed down. [[16.00 hours]] So if I sum it up. I think that when it comes to a very sensitive area, such as public confidence in justice, especially criminal justice, we should not gamble such terms as this, for example, in the sense that criminal prosecutions can be ordered. That is what I think is really not appropriate and that this only deepens the distrust of those who hesitate to believe in the impartiality of criminal justice or not. On the other hand, I think that, in the area of policy, for example, which is applied by the prosecutors, steps should be taken directly to remove the current - now I dare say unhappy - situation where some prosecutors prosecute crimes that are subsequently acquitted in the courts. We, like all taxpayers, pay a considerable amount of damages. They no longer move in tens of thousands, but hundreds of thousands to millions. It is not only compensation for immediate damage - loss of earnings, for example, when the person could not work or perform an expert activity, but it is also the material damage of the psychic etc. There's quite a lot of cases. And I really don't want to be too specific, but take how long some cases have been going on, such as the Chapi Nest case, and there are still no results at all that we know about. These are cases that will result in a state of criminal prosecution in matters that the public is very closely following and where I would assume that we will therefore get some results from these activities, such as prosecution or termination of prosecution. So I don't know anything about anything yet, and I think that this is, in a way, some kind of cluelessness of criminal justice, which, in these cases, has lost confidence in our public, given the time of such proceedings. I'm sorry it might have been a little longer. I am not satisfied with the state of criminal justice in the Czech Republic. I think that we need not only new procedural codes, but we need a slightly more critical view of justice, and I do not think of the courts now, I mean the prosecutor in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u55	Thank you, too. Before I invite another speaker, President Kalousek, I will read two apologies. Mr Julius Špičák apologizes to us from 15.54 to 17.30 hours due to a doctor's visit, and Minister Schillerová apologizes to us today from 17 o'clock for working reasons. Please, Mr President, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I listened very carefully to Mrs Válková when she answered, as she said, the rhetorical question of whether or not a prosecution could be ordered here. The answer was nice, but the question didn't sound like that. The question was completely different. It sounded as if the Prime Minister, the chief executive, claimed on this microphone that we live in a country where criminal prosecutions could be ordered. That's the question. And that's what the government has to answer, because that's what the executive chief said. After all, Mr Ondráček referred to this. So maybe there's only one answer to that. You provided it, you said: it is not possible in this country. Clearly, then, Mrs Válková said that the Prime Minister is a liar, because he said that it is possible, that is, a liar in this matter, but it must be said either by the Minister of Justice or by the Prime Minister. I think that the Chamber of Deputies must want an answer to the Prime Minister's statement as serious as that when the Prime Minister says: no, it is not possible and I was not telling the truth. Or the Minister of Justice must say to him as responsible for the law enforcement authorities: no, it is not possible and the Prime Minister was not telling the truth. The fact that Mrs Válková said this is not possible, so the Prime Minister was not telling the truth, although it is honest, I thank her for it, but it is not enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u57	I thank you for the time being and now, with the factual remark of Mr Hájek. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u58	Mr President, colleagues, svatý Mirek here has been upset by the fact that somebody is lying here, speaking not really, and so on. Yesterday I expected as my colleague Stanjura here remembered the anniversary, so I thought he would remember the anniversary of the fact that the Czech Police found that the koruna bonds were no crime, no crime. 14 and 15 March 2017 The Chamber of Deputies, on the basis of Mr Kalousek's request here, included a point called tax fraud by the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance's tax fraud! The Chamber of Deputies condemned Prime Minister Babiš by its resolution that he had stolen from the Czech Republic in the framework of koruna bonds, and after 18 months the police found that no crime had been committed. So, through Mr. President, if you have a little decency in your body, you will apologize here for actually accusing the Prime Minister falsely! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u59	Thank you, too. I would like to point out that statements and functioning in the House are subject to a slightly different rule than that of outside it. And now, please, with the factual remark of President Stanjuru, then President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u60	For Mr Hájek, by your means. That point has been included, the House has adopted a resolution. Did the opposition have most of the votes at the time, or didn't they? I think that your righteous anger, or your anger, so that I may not tell the righteous, your anger and your indignation should be directed toward your ex-boyfriend, but also your current coalition ally. Those were the ones you retreated to this morning and voted in favour of the Karenary's time, who opposed the inclusion of the point and who voted in favour of the resolution. Unfortunately, we didn't have a majority. Then don't look so hypocritical! Kalousek only has one vote. Only one vote has Kalousek. That means that Mr Kalousek did not place the item, but most Members, including your dear coalition partners. But that's not convenient for you! You'd rather not talk about it. What if they get mad? That would be awful, wouldn't it?!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u61	Thank you for your time, and I ask Mr Kalousek to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u62	I wasn't very upset about someone lying or lying. For example, the Prime Minister does not lie when he says, as Prime Minister, that we live in a country where criminal prosecutions can be ordered. I'm not even saying he's lying. Only Mrs Válková said that it wasn't true. That is why she said the Prime Minister was lying about this. I don't know, but I am damn interested in this, and I even think it is my sacred duty as a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to ask how it is possible that the Prime Minister will say this, because if that is true, it is a very serious problem and it is the Prime Minister's responsibility. And if that's not true, the Prime Minister is lying, and it's also a very serious problem. But most of all, I wonder what it's like!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u63	Thank you for keeping time. At this point, I have no further factual remarks, nor do I have any applications for debate. If no one else reports from the scene, I am done with the debate. I'd like to ask if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Benda. So, please, the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u64	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I have only one final remark. There were many interpretations of the Constitution today. There are always many interpretations of the Constitution. I would just like to quote - no doubt you all know him, but he liked to quote article. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 4: "The Member or Senator shall not be prosecuted without the consent of the Chamber of which he is a member. If the Chamber denies consent, prosecution shall be excluded for the duration of the mandate.' I'd just say there's no criteria. Each of us sets them according to our consciousness and conscience, and in this way he is to vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u65	Thank you, too. That concludes the final words. As far as I know, no voting proposals have been tabled at this time. We're going to move on to the detailed debate that I'm opening up here, and I'm asking if anyone's coming forward. I suppose so. So, please, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u66	Yes. You are in front of you, but I will read the motion for a resolution, and I would say in advance to the numerous questions from the plenary that have been raised here, that we are always submitting a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies as a mandate and immune committee, by which the Chamber of Deputies agrees to prosecute. And then we give our recommendations or recommendations to the mandate and immune committee on how to deal with such a resolution. So, in the same way, we have also done now and we are putting this proposal to the Chamber of Deputies to vote: "The Chamber of Deputies pursuant to Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 4 of Law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended, and according to the provisions of Section 12 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, agrees to prosecute Mr JUDr. PhDr Zdeněk Ondráček, ., n.o.b. 28. 7. 1969, which was to commit a crime of slander pursuant to § 184 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended. He should have committed this crime in an interview for EuroZpravy.cz's online news server , in an article entitled 'Ondráček pro EZ: Horáček is not my concern. This is not about the commission and me, but about something completely different', which was published on the website www.eurozpravy.cz On 14 December 2017, at 1401 pm, in one of its written replies to the questions of the editor about Mgr Michal Horáček, ., n.o.b. 23. 7. 1952, he said: 'Horáček is according to the available information a former Vekslák and a coworker of the State Security with the code name sázkař.' Mr Zdeněk Ondráček should have committed the above-mentioned meeting with the knowledge that this is a false figure which is capable of significantly endangering the good reputation and seriousness of Mgr Michal Horáček, D, for fellow citizens, and at the same time cause him other serious damage in the form of a possible negative impact on his perception of the person in the eyes of potential voters with regard to the ongoing campaign of the presidential election in which Mgr was. Michal Horáček, D, one of the candidates." I ask that we decide on this resolution in the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-31-ps2017-020-06-002-169.u67	Thank you for reading the resolution. I'll ask if anyone else is joining the debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate. I suppose the final words won't be. There's an application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you. Or I'll call my colleagues to the ballroom. Please log in with your cards again. [[He's waiting a while.]] When the number of applicants is settled... Then I'll repeat for the arrivals that we'll vote on consent to prosecute. At this point, the number of applicants has stabilized. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 171, 168 Members and Members are enrolled, for 47, against 80. The motion was not accepted. Thank you. We've dealt with this point. I thank the appellant and the rapporteur. I'm closing point. Let's move on to the next point. Before I open it, I'll read an apology. He apologizes to us for working reasons for today's meeting from 16.10 pm, Mr Sklenák. [[Some Members are leaving the O.R. Noise.]] And I'm opening another point, which is a fixed point.
