ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u1	61. Government proposal by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give consent to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union (the House Press 97/ - first reading) We renegotiated this point on 31 May, when we interrupted the general debate. [[Noise in the hall.]] I ask the Members to bring all the discussions outside the Chamber so that we can continue to discuss my very open point. At the same time, I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table, which is currently happening, be taken up by the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jan Kubík. We have interrupted this point in the general debate, which we will now continue to discuss. Mr Dolínek's point of order is next, if it is valid... So the Member has the floor on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u2	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask for peace in the hall, because this is a rather serious matter... In the first part of the discussion of this press, Mr Skopeček spoke and dared to say something so outrageous in his speech that he called social democracy a criminal social democracy. I would like, through Mr President, to ask Mr Skopeček to be closed down in the same way as he dehonested a political party that has been here for 140 years, as he dehonested all those who died here during the Second World War as members of social democracy, to be persecuted, just as they were persecuted after 1948, were perscusated in various processes, for one of them, for example, Mr Josef Veverka, a journalist who sat there for four years during the war and 13 years behind the communists, and hundreds of others to apologize to them for apologizing for social democracy in the same form that he insulted her here. I find it undignified, unacceptable to include everything that can be said here in this House. I ask for a clear apology through the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Skopeček will respond to your point of order by commenting on his point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u4	Thank you for your attention. Of course, I do not consider social democracy a criminal party. I spoke here and remembered the negotiations of the Treaty of Lisbon, and I called it criminal that when the President of the Republic negotiated an exception, the social democracy, which was then in the government, forgot the exception, took it into account that it did not exist. And even though it took a lot of international effort, she just bailed. And in my opinion, that's not how foreign policy is done. I consider this a criminal move, but I did not mean that social democracy is criminal. Listen better next time. It sounded in a completely different context. And maybe we could save ourselves a dramatic statement like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u5	We will continue with those who are enrolled in the general debate. Four Members are duly applied for. However, when we interrupted the general debate, President Kalousek was given priority rights. I mean, I'm asking him if he wants to get out. That's right. I apologise, in the meantime, Mr Benešík came forward with a factual remark, so we would prefer him with a factual remark. Mr Kalousek and then Mr Munzar will speak with priority. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I was with the fact that I was also enrolled in the original debate, but then I checked out because two minutes later the debate was over. So that's why I volunteered again today. I'd like to respond to some previous speakers yesterday or the day before yesterday. [[12.20 hours]] I am glad that the debate on whether or not the euro has finally begun. The great debt of past and present government is that it is not having this discussion. And that's wrong. To go against your own people, to go against the citizens of the Czech Republic, if they clearly do not want the euro, it is nonsense. But let's remember the facts. We, the citizens of this country, in 2003 when voting on accession to the EU, which was the only referendum in this country, have also spoken about it as part of the question, part of the conditions that, when the Czech Republic meets the conditions for adopting the euro, it will accept the euro. And let's debate whether the question of whether or not our people's decisions are relevant from that time is relevant, but it is, and no one in Brussels has ever disputed this. And I find it smiling that colleagues who cling to referendums and still want referendums are more or less questioning the result of a single national referendum, which is one of them. it has also decided that if we meet the conditions, we should join the euro area. That is precisely why I personally, for example, am very, but very reserved for a general referendum. I really think there is a politician here who is paid by his constituents to study, read, discuss, argue with his political competitors, and then decide according to the will of his constituents. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u7	Your performance raised further factual points. They will be presented in this order by Members: Skopeček, Dolejš and Volný. Mr. Mr. Skopeček has the floor. Please, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u8	Thank you for the floor. I made the actual statement yesterday, before it was interrupted. I wanted to respond to Mr Schwarzenberg's words. I am glad that now my colleague Benešík, who actually opened the question like that, namely that it concerns the euro. I would like to respond to the fact that it has been said that the Czech Republic has committed itself by approving in the referendum of accession to the EU that it has undertaken to adopt the euro in the future. It really is. There really is a condition in that contract. On the other hand, and it is forgotten to say that the conditions of the euro area, its structure, its resemblance over the time that we made that commitment, such dramatic changes that it is relevant to be entertained if the commitment is still valid. Probably the biggest change in the euro area was in connection with the financial crisis and it was a breach of the eurozone's core building block, namely that one state would not save its taxpayers by the second state that is failing. This fundamental condition of the euro area has been violated, and a number of other conditions have been violated. The eurozone has gotten into a lot of trouble. And no one can want us to see our commitment to a completely different monetary union as valid. After all, when we look at the appearance of the European political elite, a few months ago, the President of the European Commission, Juncker, told Czech representatives that no such thing as necessity and coercion of the Czech Republic does not require that the Czech Republic, of course, wishes to enter the euro area. Well, he wouldn't want it if we have public finances in good shape and we're a good source for bailing out, if necessary, countries that are much worse off with public finances. But the President of the European Commission himself said that no one would force the Czech Republic to join the euro area and that it was up to us. [[I'm sorry. Time, Mr. Ambassador!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u9	Mr Dolejš's factual comment follows. After that, Mr Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u10	I just wanted to warn the honourable auditorium and, of course, the previous speakers, or my followers at this desk, that we are discussing ratification so-called. European debt brakes, or if you want fiscal compact. Of course we can look for a connection, everything has to do with everything, but we do not commit to adopting the euro. As far as I know, in the election campaign, no major political party has had in its programme to decide on the political deadline for the adoption of the euro, so I do not see any reasonable reason why we are constantly shaking this place, including the possible use of a referendum for this purpose. I think that we have the scope for the convergence of the Czech economy to the advanced European Union all the time, that the euro area itself undoubtedly has a lot to do with how to think about itself and improve its functioning, see the problem not only of Greece but also of Italy, and we do not need to burden this debate, because at the heart of this debate is that this document should be ratified. We all know that the European debt brake is much weaker than the one proposed in Czech terms in the form of a constitutional law, and that we are not in any immediate danger. It's more about whether we should accept the not-so-conceived state that presents the text of fiscal compact, which has already ratified roughly, I think, 25 countries. That's all this is about, and let's not really burden the debate with anything else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u11	Thank you. Mr Volný has checked out, so Mr Benešík will now speak with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I agree that this fiscal pact or compact does not really oblige us to adopt the euro. I totally agree with that. But I said that I am glad that he will at least open up the discussion that previous governments owe to the citizens of the Czech Republic, because let's just have a serious, preferably emotionally-free debate about it. And I have been in the position of chairman of the European Committee, even though I have only been here for five years, three premieres. It was Prime Minister Rusnok, Prime Minister Sobotka and Prime Minister Babiš. And I think that with each and every one of them, we have mentioned this subject marginally. We have also experienced several finance ministers. And I am not questioning the relevance of the debate that the euro area we were supposed to enter at the time of our accession in 2004 is a little different from the euro area or was not what we have today. But we always discuss this here at our home in the Chamber of Deputies, in the Czech Republic, but not further! Our partner is the European Commission and the Member States of the euro area, and so if we are saying that this is the case, and I think that this requires a more detailed analysis, not just a political statement, then we must lead it elsewhere. And I wonder if any prime minister or finance minister will actually raise this question and discuss it, the difference and relevance of our commitment to join the euro area not in front of the Czech voters, who, of course, like it when we bang on the table, but where it is to run, that is, with partners in the euro area and in the European Commission. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are now continuing the general debate. Mr Kalousek, after whom Minister Schillerová shall give priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u14	Thank you, Mr President. dáma and gentlemen, allow the brief position of the TOP 09 to this draft. But before that, I wanted to respond very briefly to Mr Skopeček, who here in the debate that was interrupted, said that the euro is essentially the German euro. I don't think it's exactly accurate. If Germany had its own currency, given the difference in economies, I am sure that the German currency, say mark, would be significantly stronger than the current euro, and, of course, the countries in the south of the euro area would have a significantly weaker currency. To say that the euro is equal to the power of the German currency, I don't think that's the way to say it. That's not how the powers of these economies are responding. [[12.30 hours]] But it is not as important as the factual remarks that have been made here a moment ago, with all due respect for them, because we do not commit ourselves to any accession to the euro area at any time by taking on a fiscal pact. And I have to say sadly that we don't actually commit to anything at all. The most important thing about the fiscal pact is Title III, which, compared to the former not-so-perfect Maastricht criterion, which was binding the euro area countries or the European Union to keep the deficit at a sustainable level below 3%, so the Maastricht criterion was replaced by much more consistent parameters, not only in a deficit where signatories already commit to the structural deficit parameter, not the normal deficit, and especially in the absolute amount of debt. This is the most important thing in the entire fiscal pact, and the government has signed it with the fact that it wants an exemption from this Chapter III. She wants another exception from Title IV, or she has agreed with the exception of Title III and Title IV. Title IV then talks about the coordination of economic policies in no binding way, but calls for an effort to coordinate economic policies. With the exception of these two heads, the rest of the text is so casual that I cannot see it as anything other than a formal symbolic act of signing up to the common European Union, but I will no longer read any real commitment there, which I am very sorry about. I must say that, as Minister of Finance, I have worked very hard to join the fiscal pact without the exception, because I liked that Title III very much and, in accordance with it, we also proposed a financial constitution at the time of my ministry. Unfortunately, we did not get a constitutional majority for the financial institutions in the Chamber of Deputies, and the accession to the fiscal pact was not due to a fundamental coalition disagreement, because at that time the strongest coalition party of the ODS was fundamentally opposed, not because it did not want to behave like one, we acted like one, but had an idea barrier. We want to act like one because we want to, we don't want to act like one because we signed something. I confess that this is an argument that I have never understood very much in this context, but of course I am forced to respect it. The opinion of TOP 09 is that we will vote in favour of accession to the fiscal pact, but we will vote with great regret that the government, as it is generally in its habit, only presents something to make it look good, but not really commit it to anything. Unfortunately, that's all this is about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u15	Thank you. Minister Schillerová will be next. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't have a chance to react last night, so my reactions are gonna be part of last night's performance, part of today's. Allow me to sum up briefly the comments on the individual performances. The main concerns of the members of the SPD, Mr Radim Fiala, Ivana Nevludová, Jan Hrnčíř, were that the Czech Republic would give up control of the state budget by ratifying the fiscal pact, giving up part of its sovereignty for the benefit of the European Union. It has finally been said since some of you who support the fiscal pact, even today. Fiscal pact - I will repeat it and stress it - is not a treaty with the European Union. This is an intergovernmental agreement with selected countries of the European Union as Contracting Parties. These are currently all countries of the European Union except the United Kingdom and the Czech Republic. That means we're actually the last country that's not part of it. And the European Union as a whole is not a contracting party. The Treaty thus stands outside the legal framework of the European Union. The fiscal pact therefore does not establish or strengthen the powers of the European Union, including the European Commission, towards the Czech Republic. I'll stress that twice. This is an agreement concluded between sovereign states and they undertake in the fiscal pact to comply with the rule of balanced public finance budgets and to introduce into their national legal systems themselves a redress mechanism in case they fail to comply with the balanced budget rule. They also undertake to reduce government debt. Moreover, countries which do not pay the euro have the opportunity to join the Treaty without being bound at the same time by the rules of balanced budgets contained in Titles III and IV of this Treaty. This form, which is presented to you for approval, has already been adopted by Sweden, Poland, Hungary and Croatia. However, in this context, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the law - and I am therefore responding to President Kalousek - is in line with these rules on the rules of budgetary responsibility under which public finances are managed. Mr Skopeček here yesterday criticized the government for acting uneconomically when it drew up deficit budgets at a time of economic growth. Here I would like to note that the Czech Republic has reached a record surplus of public finances last year. We are the third in the European Union in a surplus balance of almost 81 billion. CZK, also in the structural statement referred to by President Kalousek, because there is always a comprehensive assessment of all the components of public finances and their actual management, not cash flow plans. Thanks to the reduction in government debt - and allow me, I cannot forgive myself to show one graph here, very important to me, because Mr Skopeček said very rightly that the public sector debt for 2017 reached 34.6 percent of GDP. Yes, it's okay. And let's see, that's the evolution of the debt. But since 1995, look at roughly the amount of debt that was in 2013. It was 45 percent of GDP. The debt brake is calculated, you have to adopt certain protection mechanisms, from 55 percent of GDP. So we're at 34.6 percent, and we're counting on a reduction for 2019 and 2020. This is an absolutely important number in my opinion, and I would like to emphasise that we are the best neighborhoods within the European Union at this level of debt. I'd point that out. I'd like to disprove my concerns. According to the convergence programme of this April, assessed by the European Commission in May, the surpluses of public finances should also be maintained in the following years. Mr Skopeček also expressed concern that if the Czech Republic joins the fiscal pact, all planned reforms, particularly structural, will be subject to approval and coordination by the European Union. Here I would refer to what I mentioned at the outset. The European Union is not a party to the fiscal pact and therefore gives it no right to approve or coordinate the economic policy of the Contracting Parties. The fiscal pact merely calls on signatory countries to coordinate their economic policies, and the institutions of the European Union play no fundamental role in this regard. Let me give you an example. The MP here spoke for STAN, now I'm sorry, I dropped his name. He was talking about the need for legitimate debate on these matters. It is precisely the possibility of joining the fiscal pact that will give the country's prime minister, for example, the opportunity to participate within the European Council of the Eurogroup, which means listening and debating. This is very important for a decision that can be made sometime in the future and whose term is not set in any way. [[12.40 hours]] As regards the European Commission's competence to supervise compliance with budgetary discipline, these are the rules of the so-called 'Budgetary discipline'. The Stability and Growth Pact, which is binding on the Czech Republic as well as for any other country of the European Union, is now binding. A fiscal pact doesn't change anything about these rules. Any fines for countries that fail to comply with budgetary discipline relate to compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact, not with the fiscal pact. That's what I need to stress here. These are set elsewhere, they apply to us directly and we must respect them as the other countries of the European Union do. In addition, these possible sanctions apply only to euro area countries. It is true that countries with a high debt ratio are applying to the fiscal pact. Yes, but so are countries with lower debt than the Czech Republic. It should be noted that the fiscal pact was signed precisely to reduce public debt. These countries have voluntarily indicated their determination to address the problems of their public finances and, where appropriate, to continue to manage them cautiously. Thus, the fiscal pact has nothing to do with joining the euro area. This results from its nature, from the nature of the agreement concluded between both the euro area countries and the non-euro area countries, including those who do not seek entry into the euro area. Denmark is needed among them. Denmark has a permanent exception to joining the euro area, and yet it has agreed to a fiscal pact. This has to do with the answer to the question whether the Czech Republic can negotiate a concession for the ratification of the fiscal pact, as it was here yesterday by some Members, or an advantage in the European Union, such as. abolishing the quotas for the reception of migrants. The answer is clear - he can't. The European Union is not a party to the fiscal pact. Personally, I do not think that the government would try to rush the ratification of the fiscal pact. For the first time, the Czech Republic dealt with ratification at the beginning of 2012, i.e. more than six years ago. The fiscal pact then entered into force on 1 January 2013 and to date all countries of the European Union, with the exception of the Czech Republic and Great Britain, are parties. We all know the position of Great Britain. The Czech Republic is therefore the last potential candidate for ratification, Britain does not, of course, seek ratification due to Brexit. This is therefore not a rush, but rather an effort not to isolate the Czech Republic and also an effort to ensure that its ratification in the form presented in Parliament guarantees us full participation in the eurozone summits, as I said a moment ago. Moreover, according to practice so far, these are all summits that concern the future arrangement of the euro area, competitiveness and so on. The Czech Republic would thus be able to participate in shaping the future development of the euro area, even if it has not yet adopted the euro and does not intend to do so in the foreseeable future. As the eurozone is our key economic partner, we should be interested in its healthy functioning at all times, whether we are part of it or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u17	Thank you. Mr Krejza will respond with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to ask the President of the Kalousek House of Deputies through you, and he's not here, so I'll do it anyway. I'll admit I'm getting a little lost here. There is a great deal of approval here. a fiscal pact, but Mr Kalousek here has revealed that it is nothing, that there are no commitments. So I don't know if I'm gonna get the answers, but I was gonna ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u19	Thank you. Mrs Válková, Mr Skopeček, will now make a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u20	Thank you. I, Mr President, my dear fellow Members, who are already under the weather here, would just like to add what the Minister has said here to those purely legal elements which nevertheless have an impact on whether the proposal should then be voted by a qualified majority or not, or whether it is an international treaty under the regime of Article 10a or an ordinary international treaty. Because, of course, there are, like, almost everything in international law, except for exceptions, different opinions, so let me point out that the detailed breakdown of the arguments, the analysis of the arguments for and against is available to us. In particular, Articles 3, 7 and 8 shall apply. I myself have dealt with this in detail, and the conclusion is relatively clear that it is an international treaty that is subject to this simpler regime, and we do not need to look at it through the optics of that strict constitutional rule where a qualified majority would have to vote. So that's the first conclusion. And the second one that I would have gotten to in my own performance if today's time was to think about why, from that legal point of view, this treaty, as I have heard in some of the speeches of the previous speakers, we fear and what consequences are being drawn from it. For example, the previous speaker, by your means, Mr President, Mr Skopeček, has drawn attention here to a number of consequences which appear to me to be unfounded by the wording of this international treaty. [[President: I am sorry your time is up, Madame.]] So I think that we should also not forget those legal aspects when we draw such general political and economic conclusions from them. So I'd like us to-- [[unintelligible, the President speaks to the speaker at the same time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u21	I have to measure everyone equally, so I really can't let you speak in this factual remark any longer. Mr Skopeček has the floor now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u22	Thank you very much. I want to respond to the Minister's words, which showed the graph here and confirmed that I used reliable official data last night that I didn't somehow color reality. So thank you very much for this recognition. However, I would like to say to the Minister that, of course, the graph is true, that debt to GDP is falling, but how else should this also develop when gross domestic product is growing? If the Minister is showing an indicator that counts as public debt to GDP, and GDP is growing, and I believe that it will grow even in the future, hopefully faster than debt, so logically the indicator is falling. Madam Secretary, when it gets - and I don't want to call it - the Czech economy into stagnation or recession, our public finances are not structurally healthy enough to manage without deficits, which we cannot, after all, even now except for exceptions, when, thanks to, for example, European money, it will go one year in surplus, but public finances are structurally ill. So the moment that economy goes down and the denominator goes down, obviously the graph will have a completely different trend. So it's not surprising, debt to gross domestic product is falling because our gross domestic product is growing because the economy is working. When the trend turns, it'll be the other way around. And the last, very important thing. You say it is an intergovernmental treaty that has nothing to do with the European Union. I believe that you have people in the Ministry of Finance who deal with the European Monetary Union, the euro area, and they will tell you that on 6 December 2017, the European Commission has presented a plan to deepen the European Economic and Monetary Union, after all, a package for the Committee on European Affairs, where we communicated the individual proposals, and there, in addition to wanting the European Commission - So I will apply once more. [[The time, Mr. Congressman, is up.]] Thank you. That's important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u23	Thank you and Mr Munzar will now speak in the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, the fiscal pact, as we simply call it, is therefore officially not just a common, common international treaty for me, the Stability, Coordination and Governance Treaty in economic and monetary union. By our position on the pact, we decide whether we want to decide on key economic issues ourselves or commit ourselves to having to ask questions, respectively. coordinate the reforms of our economic policy in quotation marks. Here, through Mr Kalousek, the President, it was said that it was just a word that meant nothing. But the European Union likes the word "coordinate," and it is certainly not appropriate for bagatellisation. [[12.50 hours]] I'm just setting an example. Under the cover of coordination, sovereign Member States are losing their right to make their own decisions. Consider, for example, what is happening within the framework of coordination within the energy union. After coordination comes the directive and then the regulations that are going against the official positions of the Czech Republic in the energy sector and are not favourable to our energy sector. I therefore consider the fiscal pact to be a step towards deepening the integration and centralisation of economic policies, which will continue to restrict the freedom of States to implement their own economic policy. The fiscal pact is intended especially for the countries using the euro, so that stability of the euro area is maintained and some state does not prepare economic surprises for others, and there has been no turmoil in the common currency of the euro due to the fiscal indiscretion of one of the eurozone states. And those are clear reasons, and there's a point. Another question is how it works in practice. It's a long story. But what does that mean for us? Thank God we have the crown and we don't have the euro. The advantages of the currency itself are obvious. The own currency has mitigated the effects of the economic crisis. Our own currency allows us to decide on our own economic and monetary policy. And sometimes we don't have to like our own decisions. I also did not like, for example, too long and too expensive interventions by the Czech National Bank, which maintained the expensive euro, the cheap koruna, and thus contributed to the wrong philosophy that we as the Czech Republic in Europe only have to compete with lower prices and cheap labor. In short, philosophy is to be a cheap montage of Europe. And I didn't like that at all, like most citizens. The weakening of our currency also leads to the lack of pressure on domestic exporters to compete not only with price, but also with quality and efficiency. Yes, that was the central bank's wrong decision. However, it was valuable that the Czech National Bank could change it itself. She didn't have to ask anyone. It was our national decision. And when the recession comes again, and she unfortunately will come one day, we will be happy for our monetary policy, which we can mitigate the effects of a possible foreign economic crisis. Because good economic policies stand on two feet. One foot is fiscal policy and the other is monetary and monetary policy. By adopting the euro, because it is also a debate on the euro, we can lose one foot by adopting the euro. And accepting a fiscal pact means that someone other than ourselves will be able to move the other one. But at least he'll talk us into it. It is so serious that there must be a public debate on this, and such steps should not be taken by a government in demise and by a government that does not have the confidence of citizens' representatives in the Chamber of Deputies. I might like the point from that fiscal pact that talks about the rules of a balanced budget and the reduction of structural deficits. But we, representatives of Czech citizens in the Czech Parliament, can vote for this ourselves, and we can comply voluntarily with it when discussing the budget or we can adopt the law on budgetary discipline. Unfortunately, we don't really need a fiscal pact to do that. And unfortunately, this is not happening here, because at a time of economic growth, the government is presenting us with a draft budget with a deficit, which is not to be done at a time of economic growth. Budget responsibility is supposed to be our domestic goal. So let's just approve our own domestic fiscal pact to ban 50 billion deficits at a time of economic growth. We really don't need an international treaty for that. Yet these instruments in the fiscal pact did not prevent debt and deficits in euro area countries, even though this was their goal. Consider the southern states: Greece, Italy, and so forth. They're all proud signatories to the fiscal pact. Yet we may be surprised at what the new Italian government will present for budgets and for monetary and fiscal measures. This means that the practical use of the fiscal pact for euro area countries is also on the water. But I understand the reasons for adoption for eurozone countries. It has only one symbolic meaning for other countries - to show how pro-European they are. And I may understand why the government of Andrej Babiš wants to do this. It simply wants to show in Brussels how pro-European it is, even though it relies mainly on the votes of the SPD and communists in the Czech Parliament. Or that is why it wants to show in Brussels how pro-European it is. I think it shows that the government has two faces. One face in Brussels, one face here in the Czech environment and in the Czech Parliament. Two-faced government, no trust, no demise. It is too serious a fiscal pact for us to accept because of the image of the government of Andrej Babiš in Brussels. And that's it. That's the only reason, from my point of view, that's why it's being presented to us so quickly. The image of the government of Andrej Babiš in Brussels. Trying to be tapped on the shoulder, for example. I don't see any other reason at that speed. That's why he's in such a hurry, that's why the government's pushing it so hard, which is why it was listed as the first point yesterday. But the reason really, really isn't enough. Because we can approach the fiscal pact at any time. There's no pressure. We don't have to rush. We can be discreet and wait for the government with confidence. Because pushing an international treaty like this will not do anyone any good, and it will not do anything to push it through the force and superiority of a few votes that are not based on a social consensus and political consensus. But maybe I'm wrong. Maybe it's different. For example, the Czech Republic has managed to negotiate something amazing for accession to the fiscal pact. By something amazing, I certainly don't mean changes in the European Commission's view for cropping agricultural subsidies. But what is it? We didn't know that. I'd really like to know if there's such a thing. Or is the Prime Minister in the resignation of Andrej Babiš returning to his statement from February 2014, which I dare quote here? As Minister of Finance, Mr Andrej Babiš said: "I think the way to the euro is long. More or less, we agreed to start with a fiscal pact. This should be the first step," said the then Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš in February 2014. Or is he going back to 2013, when he said we should accept the euro? Is this really the first step of this government towards the euro? Is that what you said, Mr. absent Prime Minister, in the demise of Andrej Babiš, in February 2014? Or is what you are saying today that the euro is not advantageous to us and will not introduce it? What's he gonna say tomorrow? Or was the rejection of the euro just before the elections? I'd like to know the answers to that before we vote on it. What, then, about the euro? Because Mr Benešík, through Mr President, has clearly confirmed here that the decision-making on the fiscal pact is a step towards the euro. So said Andrej Babiš in February 2014. And we don't have the answers, and yet we should vote on it today. So what is it, Prime Minister? And because you cannot answer me because you are once again absent from such an important international treaty, which the Czech Republic will commit itself to some things, I would, Mr President, put a motion to interrupt this point in the presence of the Prime Minister to learn the answers to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u25	Thank you, Ambassador, I have noted your procedural proposal for this item to be suspended until the Prime Minister arrives. I will vote on this proposal. First, I'm gonna call in the MPs from the lobby. [[Voices from the diaper require check-out.]] I can also hear a motion to unsubscribe, so I'm checking everyone out. Please log in with your ID cards again. [[13.00 hours]] There has been sufficient time, and we also have the necessary number of Members to begin the vote. I therefore initiate the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 186. Registered 111 Members, for 30, against 58. The motion was denied. We will continue to discuss this point. Mr Skopeček's point of fact is next, and then President Kalousek, with priority right, is entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your point of order. I ask the other Members of the Chamber of Deputies to keep their voice down, and the Member may speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u26	Thank you so much for the silence. In my initial response to the Minister, I did not have time to say the second very important thing in the factual note, namely that the Minister certainly has people in the Ministry of Finance who are watching how the negotiations on the future form of the euro area are going. No doubt if she asks them, they'll tell her that December 6, 2017 The European Commission has come up with a plan to deepen Europe's economic and monetary union and, as part of the proposal for a deepening process, the inclusion of a fiscal pact in the European framework is also a proposal. So I understand now, maybe... Or I was in vain looking for motivation, why you so dramatically want to accept a fiscal pact. Maybe you want to do it now, when the House doesn't take it so seriously yet, because it'll put an intergovernmental agreement on your arguments. But at the moment of another change in the architecture of European monetary union, and this Treaty will enter into a European framework, which is the proposal of today's European political elite, you might already have it worse in this House. So when you say today that it is an intergovernmental treaty, I say yes, but the European Union itself, the eurozone itself is expecting this to soon become part of the European political framework. And I finally understand the motivation, why you're in such a hurry, why you want it so bad. I agree with my colleague, former speaker Vojtěch Munzar, that this is an effort by the salami method to get to the euro. When we read Mr Andrej Babiš's comments from 2013 and 2014 when Miloš Zeman supported the adoption of the euro, we will find that he also supported it. Then he found out that public research turned out differently, so he stopped supporting it because of the election result. But now the election is over, so you've probably drawn that step towards the euro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u27	Thank you. With a factual remark, Minister Schillerová will respond. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u28	Well, I'll be very quick. I am glad, Mr Skopečka, that we have already moved away from admitting on the right spectrum of your benches that the fiscal pact does not oblige us to the euro. And you have opened up the issue of the so-called European package of deepening the economic monetary union of 6. 12. 2017. Of course I know him. I wouldn't be in my place if I didn't know him. But you obviously didn't finish it. Maybe you haven't started discussing him yet. There is indeed a proposal for the transfer of a fiscal pact to European legislation, but it makes a fundamental distinction between two groups of states. Between euro area members and non-euro area members. And for non-euro area members, which is also the Czech Republic, this would be binding and would apply at the time of entry into the euro area, which is a very important condition. And one more thing. To do that, the management of public finances. You only say half of it. I dare say that the debt of the general government sector has also fallen absolutely. For 2015 - 1,846 billion, 2016 - 1,755 billion. and 2016 (?) - 1 749 billion, et cetera. And one more thing, and I'm sure you know her well. There is also a so-called structural balance, which is a surplus of the public sector net of the economic cycle. And there we are plus-- I say plus-- 1.1 percent of GDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u29	Thank you, Madam Secretary. In fact, Mr Skopeček, Mr Munzar, will respond. At the same time, I ask the Members, especially from my point of view in the left side of the Chamber, to be calm and to be able to discuss this point. Mr Skopeček, his point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u30	Madam Secretary, I am not arguing with you that the fiscal pact and its consequences are effective for members of the euro area. This will apply regardless of whether it remains an intergovernmental treaty or whether it becomes part of European legislation. The consequences will simply be borne by members of the euro area. But I ask why you are in such a dramatic hurry to adopt a fiscal pact when the Czech Republic does not need it until it is in the euro area. Well, it means one thing. You wish to join the eurozone, you're just afraid to tell your constituents. That's the only possible explanation. And otherwise, as far as the drop in absolute debt is concerned, you're right. But let's also look at the state of reserves and accounts of state firms and other institutions. There we find that you vacuumed it to such an extent that you really managed to reduce the absolute debt, however, when we look at the development of public spending, the development of mandatorial public spending, we find that, of course, we are experiencing growth there, although the Czech economy is growing. So you don't put public finances together by doing structural reforms, by saving your spending, but by vacuuming reserves in state-owned enterprises and state-owned companies' accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u31	Mr Munzar's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u32	Thank you. He kind of said it, Mr. MP Skopeček in front of me. When you were talking here, Madam Secretary, about how well our state is doing, we must realize that we are at a time of economic growth. And instead of using this opportunity to invest, to increase investment, to make, as the people say, forums for the future, when the economic times are not so rich and good, the operating spending of the state is constantly increasing, investment is decreasing, and at the same time we are still waiting for the question of how the Czech Republic is preparing for the fact that, after the end of this programming period, European funds may not be as favourable to our country as we are preparing for this in the future. So we really should use this economic boom to make surplus budgets and to change the structure of budgets so that investment is preferred over operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u33	Now with priority rights, President Kalousek, after whom Mr Krejza. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u34	Thank you for the floor. I apologize to Mr Krejza for not being here when he asked me a question, but I heard him carefully on television. Then I'd take the liberty of answering him. Mr Krejza asked what I mean when I say that there is basically no commitment from the text we approve. Well, he answered you very briefly, Mr Munzar, when he said that actually the only reason is the image, he said, the government in Brussels. I think the prestige of the Czech Republic in front of 26 other partners, not counting Great Britain, is not a marginal reason. And that's why I'm going to vote for it. But Mr Munzar also said with one breath that this is a very important treaty that obliges us to many things. So either they're either paying one or they're paying the other. So I'm going to try to explain why it doesn't really mean any commitment, because the most important thing about the fiscal pact is Title III, where hard parameters for the structural deficit and the absolute amount of debt, including guidelines for states, are applied against the former imperfect Maastricht criterion when these parameters are not respected. So the government took an exception from this head, so it won't apply to us. Then what bothered Mr Skopečka was that it was not only about fiscal discipline, but that it was about some commitment to coordinate economic policies, so it is in Title IV. So the government has taken an exception from this title IV, so it won't apply to us. Then, when you take what other obligations there are for the Member States, the commitment to approve a financial institution, the previous government has already done this in a very typical way, not by constitutional law, but by ordinary law, so any government majority can change it at any time, plus with completely soft and insufficient parameters, so it is exactly according to the government's style: we check out that we are fulfilled, but it doesn't mean anything in terms of content. [[13.10 hours]] Then the states that have acceded to the agreement have to establish a national budgetary board, here we have it. [[A reminder off the microphone.]] I say here we have - there was no question mark, Madam Secretary, I said here we have, and then let me read as I read, there is no imperative under any sanctions. Then it's really all about it, and that's why I say that we approve it with sadness, because I, as the Minister of Finance, tried to promote accession to fiscal compact without exception from Title III, so we approve it with sadness that we approve the government of form without any content that would mean anything to us. I am convinced that this is the case, perhaps I have answered your question in an exhaustive manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u35	Thank you. Mr Skopeček will respond to a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u36	Thank you very much. I want to respond to the exceptions. It does not comfort me very much that the government has taken an exception from not coordinating economic policies. The moment he changes his mind, he will take that exception back, and we will no longer fight hard in front of the Chamber of Deputies for the very essence of the fiscal pact and its ratification, which in the meantime can become part of European legislation, which the Minister has forgotten to say, and argued here that it is only an intergovernmental treaty, which European politicians are already considering to include that treaty, or that it will become part of European legislation. So it doesn't calm me down, and I feel that the government's exception will then be taken more easily than the approval of the treaty in today's House. So it's no guarantee to me. Mr Kalousek said that the fiscal pact contained harsher conditions than the Maastricht criteria, that it would be such a tightening-up. Well, that is very nice, but if we look at the Maastricht criteria that European countries and which eurozone countries are fulfilling today, the Member would count them on the fingers of one hand. The vast majority of the eurozone countries and the Maastricht criteria cannot be met, and they are not insignificant, they are the most important countries. On the contrary, who can meet the Maastricht criteria is the Czech Republic and de facto the V4 country. The European Union, and although the Minister said that it had nothing to do with the European Union, although it is not part of the European legislation, it was, of course, negotiated on a European basis between European political elites. It leads, of course, it was a big integration step, regardless of the fact that it was not officially as a Treaty of the European Union, as a primary law, but it was negotiated as an intergovernmental agreement. So nothing like that, the arguments here don't apply, even the Maastricht criteria aren't met. I would understand if European countries, eurozone countries, had managed better and we wanted to get to them as a club where we should take -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u37	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, time's up. Thank you. Mr. Kalousek's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u38	Thank you. Of course, I agree with Mr Skopeček that the government can withdraw from that exception at any time without the House, that is certainly true, but it is simply an unfair argument that we are taking any step towards adopting the euro by joining this pact. That's not there, and even a suspicious person like me isn't able to find that connection. And a little comment on what Mr. Skopeček and Mr. Munzar said. That much, and I'm not criticizing it, I'm just saying the great emphasis on a sovereign monetary policy that will allow you to devalue currency in times of crisis, thereby increasing competitiveness, which the southern states did, and we want to keep this option, is nothing more than a process where you pay higher competitiveness of companies and lower costs of debt services for companies and the state from devalued household savings. This is the result of this process. TOP 09 as a party defending those responsible and saving, this is not considered to be the best economic policy instrument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u39	Thank you. The factual remarks made by Mr Munzar and Mr Skopeček will follow. Mr Munzar has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u40	Thank you. I want to respond, through Mr President, to Mr Kalousek's previous speaker, the first part that concerns the exceptions. We already have an example here. He was mentioned in his first speech by Mr Skopeček today. After all, we had the Treaty of Lisbon, an exception was negotiated in Brussels from part of the Treaty of Lisbon, and the previous government for nothing, with nothing but a tap on the shoulder, has retreated from this exception. What did the Czech Republic get for it? Unfortunately, nothing. So I think he can retreat quickly from the exceptions. And really, it is very dangerous to downplay the word coordination, because coordination really means directive and regulation, and we probably would not want to get there, so that we cannot make decisions about our own monetary policy, but also about our own fiscal policy according to the needs of our citizens and our national economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u41	Thank you. Mr Skopeček's point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u42	I do not at all want to suspect, through Mr Kalousek, that he would not know that monetary policy is not just about weakening the exchange rate of the Czech currency. Monetary policy is particularly about the possibility of setting interest rates and the price of money in the economy. This may be an even more important option than weakening or strengthening the Czech koruna. So losing monetary policy, the one leg next to the fiscal one, would mean not only fixing the Czech koruna's exchange rate for good, but also losing the opportunity to autonomously determine and influence interest rates, which is a very important channel and a very important instrument of economic policy, how to avoid the crisis, or how to do not make the crisis so serious for the economy. So it's not just about weakening the course. I will remind Mr Kalousek that I was a great critic of what the Czech National Bank did with the Czech crown for several years through a firm commitment. I think it caused long-term schools larger than short-term benefits, which for exporters had the fixation of the Czech koruna. So I am no advocate for the Czech National Bank to use currency devaluation as an artificial tool to increase competitiveness, I simply want to have a freely moving exchange rate that alone, spontaneously on the basis of market signals, will respond to whether the economy is going up, if the economy is going down. After all, when you look at how the Czech Republic managed to deal with the economic crisis at the beginning, our decline at the beginning was much smaller than it was in the territory that the euro had, precisely because our crown spontaneously, without the intervention of the central bank, weakened and improved the situation for Czech exporters. So to give up monetary policy is to give up not only the exchange rate, but also interest rates.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u43	Thank you. Mr Krejza will now speak in the general debate, followed by Mr Rozvoral. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u44	Thank you, Mr President. On the one hand, I would like to thank Mr Kalousek for his reply to me, but I think that these issues were more raised than was explained. I've summarized it here from the speeches of my predecessors and translators. The fiscal pact has no impact on the budget. He doesn't transfer jurisdiction. Sounds good. He doesn't do any responsibilities. And then the reason. The reason is to participate in the negotiations. At meetings, at European Union or euro area summits - that is not enough reason. We have negotiated exceptions - Title III, Title IV. My colleague himself admitted that this is actually a gros, why should we even deal with the fiscal pact? Then we learn that it is not actually implementing, or that it is not drawing us closer to adopting the euro. [[13.20 hours]] I just can't believe it. I think this is the standard salami method that is commonly used here, for example. for registered partnerships, a long debate. Today we are debating whether we will have full marriages. I'm not criticizing it, I'm not evaluating it, I'm just reminding you. I think this is exactly the procedure that will lead to this. I would just like to remind you that the position of the Civil Democratic Party is, of course, pro-European, it is pro-Western, we belong there, we have always been a part of it, although perhaps there was a time when we served other masters rather than serving here, here we want to build our own rightful position in order to be able to promote our own views so that we are not fully dependent on dictation from nowhere. I think this is the position of the Civil Democratic Party. I am convinced that the adoption of the euro will take place one day, unless the euro falls apart on its own. We know that the Maastricht criteria, perfect, imperfect, will not be evaluated, I did not invent them. If you look at the overviews, from the 27 Member States then, I think Britain is still a member of the European Union, how many of them, these criteria? Seventeen? I don't know, I don't remember the statistics exactly anymore, but it wasn't for sure, it was definitely more than half of the states that didn't meet these criteria, nothing happened. Do you recall the reasons why the fiscal pact was actually being implemented? Yes, it was a Greek problem. I do not know if it is necessary for the Czech Republic to approach the euro in any way at this time, which, in my opinion, is the most advantageous and very advantageous for our strong neighbour, Germany. In fact, this is how Germany conquers Europe here without a fight. And I think we should at least oppose these tendencies with our national or national interest. Not just looking at ourselves, but looking at ourselves. So I just think that accepting a fiscal pact that doesn't tie us to anything right now doesn't solve anything, but we may have heard that in Slovakia, but I don't know how valid the headlines were after that, when it was talking about how much euros grandma sent to the heirloom, Slovak heirloom, with 200 euros, how much she sent to Greece, how much she sent to Greece, how much she sent, or how much we would send to Italy. Those huge deficits that are constantly increasing in southern Europe. That is what I think will be a major stress test for the European currency. I can even say here that maybe there are tendencies or thoughts that Greece... Well, is it even a good thing that it's there, in the eurozone, that it's burdening us with the euro? Perhaps some European monetary union leaders are no longer so enthusiastic about this. I don't mean that we're Řecko, on the contrary. We have seen the reduction in public debt, and here I would like to remind you that I think that the reduction in public debt is a great credit to municipalities that are doing very well. Very good. And we have a tendency, like the House, to erase the mayors' stairs a little bit more, pardon me. So I'm against acceptance at this point. I think that not only about devaluation is there a talk here, there may also be revalvation, it means that the citizens themselves will get richer, if we don't artificially reduce the course, he will go upstairs, so you just have a cheaper vacation, you have that foreign car cheaper, your property against the euro will grow in price. I think that this is not a bad trend at all, that we should not approach the adoption of the euro in any way by adopting something that we are saying here that does not commit us to anything. So, in conclusion, I would like to say that I would like to propose a rejection after the end of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, I have noted your motion to dismiss. Mr Kalousek and Mr Jan Volný will now respond with factual comments. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. No, so you don't have the floor, President Kalousek has given up his point of fact. Mr Free now with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u46	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, I would like to say one thing after my previous speaker's speech. From what I've just heard here, it's kind of a fabula - what if, if. It's not based on the knowledge of the whole thing at all. This depends on the situation in Greece, depending on the fact that this is one of the first binding steps to adopt the euro. It's not like that at all. I'm just seeing some schizophrenia from my colleagues at the ODS and from the right. On the one hand, they say, "Let's stick the bass with our Western partners, because they're the real ones." I am fundamentally in favour, and this is the one thing that has something to do with it. We are the only state or one of the few states in Europe that has not accepted this. On the other hand, the parameters included in this are so benevolent that we do not want to indebt this state more than is included in this fiscal pact and to which we would commit ourselves. According to my information, I have studied this very thoroughly in the last parliamentary term, because this round of negotiations has already been here once, it is really only to be in a club where we will have information, when it will simply make it available to us the negotiations on the individual financial forums, and it is not at all that we commit ourselves somewhere, that we must adopt the euro by a certain date since the adoption of the fiscal pact. So, please, let's not be scared here, let's tell the truth, let's just say it the way it really is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u47	Thank you. Mr Munzar, after which Mr Krejza, will give a factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond to Mr Volný through Mr President. I have asked a few questions here in my speech, a long one, at the beginning of today's general debate. What's the reason why he's in such a hurry? What really is the reason why this is so urgent that it has to be approved at a time when we have no confidence in the government? I didn't get an answer for that. The fact that this is advantageous for euro area states or the need for euro area states, that there are reasons for this, is what I have also said here. But for others, it's voluntary and we have no deadline or obligation to accept it. So I would really like to know what the real reason is other than the government image in Brussels. I didn't really know that. And that everyone has it? We must decide what our countries need, whether we can manage our fiscal and monetary policies, whether we can decide to be as competitive as possible. And my grandmother always said to me, "If everyone else jumps out the window, will you jump?" It's not an argument that everyone has it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u49	Thank you. Mr Krejza, with a factual point, followed by a factual remark by Minister Schillerová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u50	Yes, thank you. Of course, through Mr President to Mr Volný. I didn't want to have any professional debate here at all, that was definitely not the point. We could do graphs here, we could have a hard time talking about numbers here. That wasn't the point. So I don't want to have a professional debate here, but rather in terms of adopting new and other directives, laws, standards. I think we have so many standards and laws that virtually nobody knows them. [[13.30 hours]] Here we agree that the fiscal pact doesn't oblige us to do anything, it doesn't solve anything. I don't think so, by the way. But if we accept the premise that it doesn't oblige us to do anything, I really don't know why we should now, at this time, add another directive and another directive, another law that doesn't solve anything. We've got over two million of them. I don't know who knows how to do this. I don't envy lawyers. Maybe now is the time when lawyers hire their own lawyers. From this general point of view, I do not think it is time for us to adopt a fiscal pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u51	Thank you. Madam Secretary Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I will be very brief. This is indeed turbospeed! We're really in a hurry. We've been working on it since 2014! So I really think we're kind of in a hurry. What's going on? Just don't stay... It's not that everyone has it. But don't stay in front of closed doors. To be able to act actively. Direct the negotiations between the European Commission and the euro area. To have an opportunity to comment on them. Saying your thoughts. That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u53	Thank you. With a point of fact, President Stanjura will now speak after him, Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u54	Such a novelty - in order to speak my mind, I have to approve an international treaty that doesn't make sense. But these are probably the new rules in international relations. I don't quite believe it. Unfortunately, we've set aside a lack of time for this today, so I'm probably not going to get to my more extensive performance, where I would describe our position in detail and justify our negative attitude. But maybe just a few facts. Do you know when we started discussing this contract at first reading? 14 May 2014. At that time, I heard from the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister, today's Prime Minister, that Britain and I are the last in Europe. Four years and 18 days have passed. And what happened in the Czech Republic that we didn't have it? Nothing at all. Nothing at all. Then I want to thank the YES movement, which, in the last parliamentary term, side by side with us blocked the approval of the treaty. You will surely recognize that 16 Members are unable to block the treaty. But side by side here with Mr Volný and others who have been here in the last parliamentary term, we have not allowed this treaty to be discussed at second reading. What changed? Nothing. Apart from what my colleague, Mr Munzar, spoke of. Andrej Babiš was already in those spotlights in Brussels, and now he wants to approve. And what else has changed? Four years ago, it was a contract that needed to be approved by a qualified majority, and four years later, it was suddenly a different approach. Mrs Válková spoke about this at the beginning of today's debate. No reason. The same people who presented it last time with a qualified majority suddenly come up with a simple majority. Why? To talk to us in Brusel so that we can give our opinions. Or I don't know why.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u55	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, your time is up. Thank you. Mr Munzar, with a factual point, followed by Mr Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u56	Thank you. I can't do it. I would like to thank the Minister for confirming here what I was afraid of and what I said here in my opening speech. You said we were already working on it, or you've been working on it since 2014. In my opening speech, I quoted the comments of the then Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš from February 2014. I'll read it again. The quote reads: "I think the way to the euro is long. More or less we agreed to start with the fiscal pact, it's the first step." Madam Secretary just confirmed it to me. So what's it like? Is this really the first step towards the euro? Because that's when Andrej Babiš estimated the media performance for six years. The end of six years is coming up. So why are you in such a hurry? Because they've been coming for six years? Or is it because of the image? Why doesn't he wait for the government with confidence? Anyway, it feels like the banner's spinning again. First, the YES movement is for the euro. Before the elections, because there are surveys coming out, against the euro. And now we're taking the first step towards the euro. So let every citizen make up his own mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u57	Thank you. Mr. Volný. After that, with a factual remark, Minister Stropnický. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u58	I'll be very short. I don't know if your colleague Stanjura was in a different parliament than I was in the Chamber of Deputies. This was a government proposal, and the government and the Ministry of Finance were already working very hard to keep us in this community just to avoid staying in front of those closed doors, but the parameters were discussed here, if it would be 45, 50, 60, but it was not in any way that YES would block the discussion and approval of this press and this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u59	Thank you. Minister Stropnický will speak with a point of fact. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a rhetorical question that nothing has happened since 2014. Or did something happen? The answer was nothing. I'd say it happened pretty well. It has quite happened in the sense that our membership, or our membership of the Union at all, is constantly eroding, is constantly being questioned, the pressures are getting stronger, the resources are still relatively more sophisticated. And that doesn't mean that whatever comes from there, we'll blindly accept it. That's not true at all. But it's like making a big conflict issue out of this, I think it's pointless. And I'm gonna say the same thing again in the last hearing. Are we really the only psychics? Are these all the Dutch politicians, the Austrians and the Nordics completely dumb that they haven't discovered the quite essential traps it contains? Did we have to come here to see this clearly? That's what I think is immodest. And one last sentence. The euro at all, when we talk about the euro so often, didn't happen entirely primarily as an economic instrument or instrument. After all, this arose as a political instrument between Kohl and Mitterrand, because it was simply rightly based on the fact that countries with a common currency have a greater problem of holding a conflicting relationship, but the relationship can be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u61	Other factual points will be answered by President Stanjura and Mr Munzar. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u62	Mr. Volný - I would call his performance the Fairy tale of a sheep's grandmother. He was talking about the financial constitution and the debt brake. This is a completely different bill that has been completely toothless approved. You're right. We are talking about this contract, where the first reading took place on 14 May 2014. [[shows the hand on the light board]] Government coalition YES, CSSD, which had 111 members. It is not possible for the opposition, moreover, when part of the opposition supports this, to defend three and a quarter of a year the inclusion of that point in second reading and discussion at all. I couldn't have done it without you. And I just honestly admit how it was that you were with us in an opinion, and now you've turned around. Otherwise, the contract would have been ratified by the lower chamber of the Czech Parliament long ago. Fortunately, from May 2014 to the October 2017 elections, we have not been able to do so in the Chamber of Deputies, thanks to a joint coordinated procedure on this issue. That's just a fact. You can look at the stew footage of what anyone has to say about it. The finance minister back then wasn't up for it. He was working to prevent this being accepted and ratified, and we were in agreement. Now I'm very surprised that, without any reason, things are changing. For no reason at all. Well, I was just reminding you that, because unfortunately, he's not gonna get to me, I'm not gonna take advantage of the priority rights, I'm gonna wait in that debate for the time to run out, which I'm sure I won't be able to do in 21 minutes. Then I'll take it apart more closely. If we were here on the first day, if we didn't know what the salami method of Brussels was, we could be comforted that it wasn't necessary at all, that it wasn't interfering with us. But it's not. And if anyone proves it as a condition to speak to the Minister, then the Minister must defy himself and we must support her. It represents the Czech Government, the Czech Republic and will talk to us!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u63	Mr Munzar and his point of order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u64	Thank you. Just a really small one for Minister Stropnický. Yes, the euro was created as a political project, not as an economic one. This is what has caused many problems for the euro, because, on the one hand, there are regions that can weaken the euro with their economic steps and are regions that are richer. That's why the fiscal pact came up. And the secretary here said it was mandatory for eurozone countries. However, it is a voluntary matter for others, so I repeat my question once again: why do we have to vote on this now, at a time when the government has no confidence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u65	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr. Rozvoral, I will introduce you to my apologies. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek apologizes until the end of the negotiations for family reasons. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes from 12.15 to the end of the House meeting. Mr Jan Bauer apologizes from 12.30 to the end of the negotiations for family reasons. Mrs Kveta Matušovská apologizes from 12.15 to the end of the day for personal reasons. President Radek Vondráček apologizes from 12 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Mrs Markéta Adamová apologises between 12.45 and 14 hours for working reasons, and Mr Jiří Běhounek apologises from 13.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. We will continue the general debate. Next up is Rozvoral, Mr.Peksa will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union, which we call a fiscal pact, and which the government here presents in demise as a further step towards bringing the Czech Republic closer to the euro area and to a common budgetary policy in the European Union. What it brings in practice is the loss of sovereign states over their budgets. Our SPD movement will therefore vote against this treaty. However, I fear that other parliamentary parties will overrule this Treaty. Therefore, in the debate on the pact, we should not talk about what budgetary discipline is supposed to be and how we might need it. Yes, we want our governments to be economical, we want, I believe, all of us, so let's promote it together. But there is no need for a fiscal pact from the European Union. We all know that any conventions or pacts have not helped Greece, Italy, Spain or Portugal. They just pushed them to fake economic results. To do the right thing, we need decency, reason, and enforceable responsibility for those who manage public money. Thus, first of all, introduce the principles of direct democracy, including direct material responsibility. With regard to the fundamental solution of state budgets, we have been proposing for years a Swiss model, a long-term balanced budget, where it is, of course, possible to react flexibly, for example. economic cycles by temporary deficits, but with the obligation to cope with them in a time of prosperity. This government is in remission, but even if it is not in demise, the government party, the YES movement, has committed itself to not pushing us into the euro. Now, however, the government is putting forward a proposal in the very opposite trend, which means it is preparing the ground for the introduction of the euro. And I say for the SPD: before we accept any agreements that lead to the euro, let us be clear about whether we want it. We and most citizens of the Czech Republic do not want it. Dear colleagues, before you adopt a fiscal pact, adopt the referendum law and let citizens decide whether they want to embark on a tragedy called the euro. But you reject such a referendum. And if citizens give you a referendum mandate to adopt the euro, then you can proceed with the fiscal pact. However, I am convinced otherwise. And until then, there is no point in discussing this topic in the House. So I will repeat once again that the SPD will vote against this government proposal and we will join the motion to reject this treaty at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Mikuláš Peksa is next, Mrs Helena Válková will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u68	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say on behalf of the pirate club that we are long-standing in favour of reducing debt financing, and therefore we are pleased that the Czech Government and the Czech Republic have finally decided to accede to such a contract. Unfortunately, I have a bit of a bitter taste in my mouth because the treaty responds to the financial crisis that broke out in 2008, and now it's 2018. As we learn from the explanatory memorandum, it is de facto implemented into Czech law thanks to the Council directive 2011 and the Czech law 2017. So it seems to me like such an empty gesture, such a look behind the distant vanishing train of the eurozone's hard core, to which Slovakia, Slovenia, the Baltic countries and other states of the former Eastern bloc join, while we simply remain in place and look. I would have expected that we would be much more active in our efforts to do something about trying to change the eurozone, and yet I am glad that at least, at least, we will have the right to obtain some information from those negotiations that we would otherwise not be allowed to do. I don't really understand why the ODS, which has long been acting against debt finance, is actually attacking this contract. It just doesn't make sense. This treaty solves or contributes to solving the problem, and we should therefore support it. And frankly, if anyone is arguing against the European Court of Justice, I will admit that I am pleased that, for example, The European Anti-Fraud Office checks how European subsidies are being spent in this country. And I certainly have no objection to European authorities checking whether the public budget is being wasted here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u69	Thank you. The President Stanjura will respond with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u70	Thank you for the floor. I'll try to explain to my predecessor the seeming paradox. Let's distinguish between form and content. We, who are in favour of having a proper debt brake, not the caricature approved by the House in the Chamber of Deputies, the Civil Democrats, are in favour. At the same time, we are not in favour of committing ourselves to those who drink wine and preach water. Let us ask the Minister how the debt brake works in France, Spain, Portugal, Greece and other countries. How do they meet the Maastricht criteria? And they're criticizing us for not taking that formal step? It's ridiculous! After all, if they have exceeded 60 percent of GDP, they are expected to reduce their debt by about 5% each year. It's happening, isn't it? Or does the big country always make an exception? B) is correct! So we're in favour of the content, I want to talk about it, about the debt brake, in my performance, I'm not going to make it today, and I want to stress the parameters. On the other hand, especially absent colleagues, with the exception of the ČSSD club president, have always been in favour of the form, but they were against the debt brake, against the content. And it's much easier for us and much more correct to create our own debt brakes, to have our own unnecessary debt mechanisms than what the government is proposing. I know it's just a skin. If I simplify it, then I will speak in detail, the contract has an introduction, a body and a conclusion. Our dear government, in order to communicate with it in Brussels, says: Let us approve the introduction and conclusion. Not the body. So the argument isn't about the content that's really toothless, it's about the symbolism, the salami method, the totally unnecessary step. Or is that not the case, Madam Secretary? We want to ratify those articles of the Convention or the Stability Treaty, which, for example, us. commit to the debt brake? [[Attention on time.]] Yes or no? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u71	Mr Pavel Jelínek apologizes from today's meeting from 13.40 to the end of the day. Mr Peksa's point of order is next. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u72	Thank you. Let me get this straight. So basically, if I understand correctly, it's not that much of a form, it's the content that matters. You want us to have a high-quality debt brake. In this, I think we're in complete agreement. We also want the euro area to reform in such a way that it will work really well and safely. So I'll ask. If we work towards a contract that actually covers it well, will you support it? Will you support such a contract?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u73	Thank you. The President Stanjura will respond with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u74	Hypothetical question. If the treaty allows the signatories to use their own currency and does not force us to the euro, that means that it will not have any other effect, then I do not see the problem of not approving common rules. On the other hand, we're little kids so someone has to tell us how to manage, and we can't do it ourselves? That's the way we propose it. We are ready, if we find more support, to dust off our proposal for a real debt brake. I can bypass the other clubs if you want to co-sign. There are parameters we can discuss, but it will be a real voluntary, conscious and reasonable decision by ourselves. If such a contract were to be established, it did not at the same time commit itself to the adoption of the euro, because it is another problem - you can manage the euro badly or well with the koruna, we may agree on that, in the end it is only an accounting operation, when you keep accounts in a different currency, to recalculate it - so for myself, I can't say for civil democrats, because if the treaty doesn't exist, we couldn't stand up for it, I say yes for myself. If it is not tied to the existence of the euro, I have no problem with such a treaty. But I don't need us to accept such a voluntary contract without looking for other allies. And what's important, besides what I've been saying, is that those who want us to do it don't follow. We don't, by not ratifying it, and that's very important, we don't slow anyone down, we don't stop anyone. Some contracts need ratification by all Member States in order to enter into force and in effect. In this case, it's not. So even for those who want it, we're not in any way in the way, they don't need it - except that Mr. Juncker will come and say, "I've got them all." That's the only reason. That practically nothing will change if we accept it. And we say it's completely unnecessary, let's not vote for it. And we will long and patiently convince you that we are right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u75	Mr Skopeček will now speak with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u76	I'll take a look at my colleague Peks, see when the contract is due, and see how the business of the signatories evolves. Do you feel that the fiscal pact helped those members who ratified it to do better? Well, it didn't lead to that. Italy over 100 per cent of gross domestic product in debt. The average of the European Union is 80 percent. We're 34. And someone's gonna criticize us for being irresponsible, for not wanting to join the fiscal pact. After all, we manage much better in reality than those who have planned it and are unable to fulfill it for years. So what a symbolic step it is to commit to countries that cannot fulfill what they have committed themselves to and force us to commit to it, too, even though we are doing better. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u77	Thank you. Mr Peksa will respond with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u78	I would only respond to Mr Skopeček through Mr President. There is no way I am going to argue that the management of some, and I will not specifically name which, the countries of the European Union are without error and could not be better. I'm just saying, this is just a step in some direction. I would, of course, expect a much more significant step. And I am aware that what has been accepted is simply a compromise in some way. But I certainly do not want to argue that there are no problems in some European Union countries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u79	Thank you. In the general debate, Mrs Válková is registered. If she wants to speak again, I will give her my word, just to warn you that at 14 o'clock I will end today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, from what you have heard here, everyone has already drawn a picture of the will to accept, vote, to allow ratification of this pact in this House, and it is a great shame. At least not yet. Because many of the arguments we have heard are not sufficiently substantiated by any other way than by certain speculations and considerations of a political nature. I know this is an important dimension, especially for every international treaty. Nevertheless, I think that this Treaty also has a very interesting legal dimension, because there are three articles that attract attention among the legal public and have been the subject of some analysis. It's Article 3, Article 7 and Article 8. And especially one of those articles that I would like to mention, which concerns so much discussed - in quotation marks now, because it really does not have any legal support - the need to adopt the euro sooner or later, clearly refutes these concerns, because its wording does not contain such a commitment at all. The article 7 - I have now reduced it, because of Article 3, which is the most important in terms of our considerations, I hope to discuss this in the course of my next speech. Article 7 defines the obligation of euro area Contracting States to support the proposals and recommendations of the European Commission towards the euro area Member State - I will underline this three times - which exceeded the criterion of the permitted deficit under the excessive deficit procedure. [[with emphasis]] So what did my previous speaker, Mr Skopeček, say, like we're supposed to resign, even if the mechanisms didn't always work 100% for what a brake and an obstacle creates? I don't think so. [[Noise in the hall.]] In this context, the Treaty also makes use of the existing Union institution, the European Commission. It extends its power without creating its own institutional framework. That's very important. Thus, the Treaty of Lisbon, which we have signed, which we are part of, has already given up some of our powers there. But that's not the case with this contract. She too, when you read her name, carefully, as lawyers or as Members, who are not indifferent when they hear some quasi-arguments - the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Affairs... This means that it is rather a standard that seeks to introduce certain rules within the complicated mechanism of the European Union. Which is why I think that the concerns that are being raised here are odd, because they do not arise from the content of a treaty that does not bind us to anything that we have not committed to before, does not force us to do anything that some of its opponents here call a commitment more or less sooner or later to accept the euro, and does not extend the range of powers that we have already transferred to the European institutions...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u81	Yes, Madame, you're right. Everyone, please calm down. We've got the last two minutes of negotiations ahead of us. Please pay attention to him and create conditions for her to finish what she needs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u82	Then I also think it is very important to realise that the scope and nature of the delegated powers when we use the de minimis argument, i.e. in the narrowest possible sense of the word, we can exclude from the constitutional qualifications referred to in Article 10a because it only establishes marginal, i.e. the narrowest possible extension of the powers of the institutions of the European Union. So I think that even with regard to the incorporation of the rules on fiscal responsibility... [[An unbearable noise in the hall.]] I'm afraid it's almost... I'm here again...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u83	Yes, Madam, I understand. I'd have interrupted you in half a minute anyway. So if I can afford it now, I would do so with the fact that when we reopen the discussion of this point, you will be first again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u84	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like that, because I think the speech should have a dignified framework after all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-01-ps2017-013-08-004-061.u85	Yes, I agree with you. It'll be in the stew. Ladies and gentlemen, I am interrupting this point right now. We are in a general debate that has not been concluded. I recall that in the general debate there was a proposal to reject Mr Krejza. We will deal with this proposal at the end of the general debate. Before I conclude today's meeting, I will introduce you to the fact that Mrs Richterová has apologized since 13.50 because of the negotiations in the electoral region and from today's meeting since 13.45 Mr Lubomír Volný has apologized. I am ending today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. This meeting will continue on Tuesday 12. 6. at 14 o'clock points according to the approved agenda of the meeting. Thank you and have a good weekend.
