ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening today's meeting on the 13th session of the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you to report, if necessary, who votes with a replacement card and to register with your identification cards. I'll remind you that there are papers in the lobby for the 13th meeting, and please don't forget to sign. We will begin today's meeting by negotiating according to the approved programme by the first reading block. In the afternoon, we'd be dealing with point 116, which is oral questioning. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest, and they will then be drawn. There is now room for any proposals to amend the agenda. The first was reported by President Faltýnek, then Vice-President Benda. I will ask everyone to settle in their seats and, if possible, reduce the level of noise in the hall. Thank you. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. Let me propose, on behalf of the ANO MEP, that the agenda of the meeting be the first item in item 61 today, the Stability and Coordination Treaty, so-called. fiscal pact. This is House press 97. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u3	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, given the rather unusual beginning of today, when I understand that Members who come to work and do not want to sign up are perfectly legitimate, the President's procedure, which will interrupt the meeting after six minutes without trying to convene a grémium or any negotiations on the next procedure, is no longer entirely legitimate, so I would like to ask for a break at the ODS meeting for half an hour now. Ten o'clock, make it nice. In ten, 38 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u5	Yes, of course I will accept this request and we will continue at 10.00. I'm interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. Let me read the apologies. Vice-President Pikal apologizes between 9.00 and 9.30 because of the illness, but is now present. Mrs Richterová apologizes between 9.00 and 9.10 for family reasons, Mr Kasal apologises between 10.00 and 11.30 for work reasons, Mrs Kořenová apologises between 10.30 and 19.00 - no, sorry, she cancels her apology between 11.30 and 19.00. Mrs Melková apologizes between 10.30 and the end of the day for reasons of work. And that is - that is not all, Mr Rozner is still apologizing from 1:00 p.m. to the end of the day for work reasons. So many apologies. And we'll continue. We interrupted the meeting in a situation where proposals to change the show would fall. I see Mr. Bělobrádek, please. On the agenda or with priority rights? [[Member Bělobrádek off the microphone: on the agenda.]] On the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u7	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Government, fellow Members, I would like to propose that a new point be included as the first item in today's meeting's meeting on the rise, production and testing of novices in the Czech Republic, so that we can discuss this serious situation that has taken place here, where there is a contradiction between the declaration of high constitutional officials, which is the head of state and the Prime Minister, so that we can discuss it. I can repeat that the Prime Minister quoted from the same documents as the President of the Republic, while...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u8	I'm begging you to calm down. I ask you to sit in the bench and monitor the course of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u9	At the same time, the Prime Minister had at his disposal the same documents as I had as Chairman of the Permanent Commission for the Control of the Activity of the Security Information Service, where it is clearly written that no type of novice in the Czech Republic was produced or stored or developed, and for this reason I think we need to deal with this. It has had both an international and internal political impact, and I therefore propose that we place this new point as the first point in today's negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u10	Yes, thank you. President Kalousek applied, then Mr Rakušan, then President Bartoš. Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support President Bělobrádek's proposal that the subject of alleged storage and testing of the novičok substance in the Czech Republic should be the first item in today's negotiations. It is known that I do not praise the government very often, but when it deserves it, I will gladly do so and I will remind you of how the situation arose. It was made by an outrageous statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation that the substance of the novice did not have to come from the Russian Federation, that it could have come from other countries, and it named the Czech Republic among them. The government of the Czech Republic immediately demented this statement and opposed it. She did exactly what she was supposed to do, and that could put an end to the whole case. Unfortunately, it is not over because, at the end of March, the President of the Republic informed our public and the world that he had ordered intelligence services to check whether or not the substance was produced and stored in the Czech Republic. And he did it even though the government had severely demented that fact 14 days before. Of course, all over the world presidents and governments are getting information from their intelligence services, which, after all, is what the intelligence services are. But nowhere around the world, those presidents don't honk to the public unless the very purpose of this move is to send a message to the Kremlin: see how I'm fighting for you here for your propaganda, which I believe was exactly the motive of President Zeman. So the following story wasn't hard to guess. President Zeman, contrary to the news he received from the intelligence services, said the famous sentence that novice material was produced and stored on the territory of the Czech Republic, and a few minutes after this was made on Czech television by Barrandov, this information was already run by the Russian media and was used by Russian propaganda and the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs as their main argument in the information war against the countries of the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance. They addressed this question both to the Prime Minister and to the Ministry of Defence as well as to the Foreign Committee of the House, as well as to the Committee for the Control of Military Defence Intelligence, and they all came to one conclusion that in the Czech Republic the substance was not produced and tested by novičok, which they also said, whether the Prime Minister with his statement or the Foreign Committee with his resolution, or the commission chaired by Mr. Rakušan, also by his resolution. So there is no dispute about what is or is not true. However, since that statement was made by the head of state, the President of the Republic, we consider it extremely important that the truthful statement, the truthful statement reached by the House's authorities, should establish the House as constitutional authority by its resolution. Nothing more, nothing less. The Czech public and our allies deserve a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies, which will say that the substance was not produced and tested in the Czech Republic. On the argument that this is pointless, because the Prime Minister has already said this and decided on it by the foreign committee, I dare say that this is not unnecessary, because it is the measure of the weight of the constitutional institution. The President of the Republic is part of the executive. It's not the spirit of God floating over the waters. That's part of the executive, and the executive is controlled by the power of the legislature. And to adopt this resolution only at the level of the House's institutions does not seem sufficient to us. We think the House resolution is the right authority. I would like to turn to those colleagues who voted on the Foreign Committee for the resolution that I am calling for. I want to assure them that we have no ambition but to agree that a foreign committee resolution is in force. And I don't understand why you don't want to do it. So I'm asking you to place this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u12	Thank you. Mr. Rakušan, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u13	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr President, for the Mayors and Independents Club, I would also like to support the inclusion of this point at the beginning of today's meeting. Maybe I'd give it one more specific dimension that hasn't been discussed here. The Military Intelligence Act clearly states that the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies is informed through the Military Intelligence Commission on the conclusions of this commission. As the President made a statement, there was a great media hype, and many of us spoke about it in one or another medium. But what we haven't been allowed to do until now is to comply with the law. This means informing the Chamber of Deputies of the resolution of the commission, which is prescribed by law to carry out the oversight of Military Intelligence. We are getting into a kind of procedural hole, because if the item of the programme is not approved, how am I as chairman of this commission to comply with my legal obligations and inform you other Members of the Chamber of Deputies that the Commission is working and dealing with this issue? I would like to say that we were the only committee of the Chamber of Deputies to be honored to welcome the Director of Military Intelligence, General Beroun, on its own. By law, we were also the only committee that had the opportunity to look into the report, from which the President allegedly drew on his initial interpretation of the situation. And we are a unanimous resolution - across the political spectrum, I want to emphasise - adopted a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and its plenary is simply to be found out by law. I am merely calling for the opportunity here to make a definitive point behind the novice's case, which is most damaging to the reputation of the Czech Republic and our Military Intelligence. And that dot under the law can't be done any other way than to officially inform you of the commission you set up, whose chairman you elected. Because I suspect that the point will not be included, I will allow myself to read the most important statement from this report in order to fulfil my duties.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u14	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, I just want to make sure you're in your position now. Whether you represent the President of the Membership Club or whether you act as Chairman of the Commission. Because we're in the debate on the agenda, and the show has to end with a proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u15	Yes, that ends with a proposal. And that, when I read this resolution, I will ask that a item be included in the programme and that resolution has been approved. [[- Yes.]] [[I understand, thank you.]] Thus, the Commission notes that "based on information from Military Intelligence, only laboratory microsynthesis was carried out for research protection purposes, which is not under the International Convention, the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and their Destruction, considered as production, and was clearly not a substance which, according to the available information, was poisoned by persons in the Sergej Skripal case." Following the invitation of the President of the Czech Republic, I say again, voted across the political spectrum to deal sensitively with intelligence. This was supposed to be the dot behind the case. No media farce, no more shelling anyone or anything. Just the statement of the commission that you have set up for this purpose, and you have not yet allowed this issue to be presented by law in plenary. And I'm asking how I could have done it any other way than this little obstruction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u16	Oh, so it didn't end with the proposal. Okay. Mr. Bartoš with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u17	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Even the House matadors, after the morning brief incident that took place at 9.05 a.m. and already at 9.10 p.m., wrote about it by the media, which I find rather smiling, how quickly we have informed some media, which soon comment on how this extraordinary meeting ended, and they wondered that it would happen that an extraordinary meeting agenda was not approved. But in order for the House majority to surround the House minority with the fact that the negotiations did not begin at all, it was not customary. Even Mr. Marek Benda, who remembers everything, said that. I don't know if this was happening, but we weren't here before. I just wanted to say that this whole case and even this classification of the point that we support, it started how. The House has agreed on a Gremium that we will discuss this point properly. We could have had this settled a long time ago. Consequently, this point was not included. Even with the voting coalition, the MPs have agreed and called an emergency meeting for today to discuss this point, so that we can... A lot of people came to work, I guess they just didn't work or forgot to put the card in. So it's just been boycotted again. I'm not quite sure if it went well the way the meeting was interrupted in the morning, with what break. And then some people laughed that we were moving on to the next meeting. And now it's just logical that we're trying to place this point. And I really agree with the previous speaker, through Mr President, with Mr Rakušan, that we should discuss this in the House, hear the report, hear the comments and simply conclude this matter. The House is in this souvenir, we have our commission. I was recently at a television discussion with Mr Brabc, who even said that the matter was quite clear because it was already written by the media and various blogs. So I don't know if it's that important that someone writes about it in their blog right now, on iToday or I don't know where. It's just the House has its commission to deal with it. There should be a report from the Commission, as far as possible, of what can be communicated. And I just don't understand, even though the House has, in its essence, at least in the basic outlines, an identical idea of what should be heard, because I was based on what has been said by the government, so I just don't understand what there is besides some servility towards President Zeman or something similar, in which the main block of this is just to talk about it for two hours, because we've already killed so much time, that it's not really the problem of the novice case, that the House couldn't discuss the important laws that we have on the agenda and at the 13th meeting there's over a hundred of them. But it's really because we're constantly spinning on the one that we're not talking about in the House. So I would appeal for a novice to be placed to settle this, that's what the opposition is calling for, and that's how we close this case for the House with a clear message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u18	Thank you. Mrs Válková on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u19	Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, first of all by your means, Mr President, to President Bartoš. Well, he hasn't really been through much. The obstructions from the past period were much more intense, more creative and had many forms. There's nothing against that. And I wouldn't call it obstruction, but just what he implied here. Basically, some of us are... [[Voices from the O.R.]] If you don't mind, I'm just answering, but I can cut it short.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u20	Madam, I ask you to move on to your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u21	Okay, so on the agenda. It is interesting that, before your time, Mr Rakušan spoke for about five minutes, that the chairman of the meeting had to warn him that he was to speak on the agenda. I'm talking for a minute, but okay. So, first of all, I myself wouldn't be against this point at all. After hearing, however, how a resolution is proposed here, which I find absolutely absurd in its content. Mr Kalousek, by your means, Mr President, who proposes that we say, or adopt a resolution that we declare that novice has never been produced in the Czech Republic, I apologise if I have added an adjective or something that was not there, one word, but this was the content of the communication. Well, of course, such a resolution, I think, could not have been voted by any reasonable Member, because he probably wouldn't want to dabble in intelligence and form. I'm not gonna elaborate. Just for myself, when I'm on the exact other spectrum, when I see the course of the discussion -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u22	Madam, I beg you to proceed to a proposal of some kind...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u23	Okay. My suggestion is that we don't put this point on the agenda after what I've heard here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u24	Well, okay. [[Laughs in the hall.]] This is the same obstruction as Mr Rakušan. Please, Mr Luzar, this time with priority rights on behalf of the President of the KSČM Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was the one who proposed the withdrawal of the item that was included on the agenda last time, so allow me to suggest here today that this item should not be discussed again in this meeting. I'm going to make these arguments very briefly, and what makes it the hype, as it was said here, that there was a hype. When you look at the timeline of the affair that penetrated, at first it was a standard diplomatic, let's say an international situation that somehow developed in the Czech countries. Let's ask who developed it, what titles he developed it from, and where the attack on the development of the hype was headed, as it was said here. And, of course, the goal was, it is, and probably will be, President Zeman for a long time. Here I would like to correct my colleague Kalousek's beautiful speech, by your means, Mr President. He said: Zeman confirmed storage. He didn't even talk about storage in his speech, and that's how the hype is made. Words and arguments are used that are not true at all. A colleague of Rakušan, by your means, Mr President, here he introduced us to the resolution that he wanted to convene the meeting for, so that it is no longer worth calling it, the resolution has already been read here. But there's also a mistake in that resolution. And if we should agree to the resolution and take note of it, as has been said here, there is talk of microsynthesis. Here is the Convention on the Foundation for the Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and their Markings. Mr. Chairman of the Commission, show me one word about microsynthesis in this convention, which you refer to, that the Commission has discussed it. [[- Please, through me. Thank you.]] I would like to know how many members of your commission have read this, or have referred only to the statement of representatives - something about microsynthesis. This Convention does not speak of this at all. And if President Zeman refers to her, then it is clearly stated here in point 12, for the purposes of Article 6, meaning (a) the production of a chemical, its production of a chemical reaction. So microsynthesis, macrosynthesis, picosynthesis and similar terminus techniques do not correspond to this treaty, which you refer to in your resolution. I would dare to challenge your resolution here, your committee, to return to it and correct it according to the wording of this international convention, so that you do not be ashamed. That is why when I put these arguments together, I wonder what was to serve today's actions and what was to be the goal. And I'm going back to the beginning again. It is clear that the hype that has been said so much about here is only a certain direction of the continuing hype that is happening here. I understand a certain outrage that was here because of the President's direct election, but I don't think this House deserves to continue with such intentions and such attacks, not sticking to facts. And the facts are here, we just need to get to know them. And the longer the hype goes, the more we learn arguments and facts from the professional public, we learn facts from abroad. I don't think this House should be the one who stretches and constantly tries to solve something that comes from half-information, from half-truths or half-truths, as one needs to use this. I therefore repeat that I will not vote in favour of this point, and I call on all of you, colleagues and colleagues, who have the same considerations about the affair that is constantly trying to develop here, to support me and not to vote as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u26	So that was a performance with priority rights, with the proposal that we will resolve in the vote on the inclusion of the item, that is, who does not agree with the inclusion, will be opposed. Now, please, Prime Minister Kalousek and after him, President Stanjura. Will I ask Mr. Jurečka? Really, maybe it isn't. That means if it's for the show... [[The answer from the O.R.]] On the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u27	I apologize for the second time, I will be very short, just so that those who will vote in favour or against the inclusion in the agenda are not misled by my previous speakers, Mrs Válková and Mr Luzar, that this is a hype and that I have proposed a completely nonsense resolution. I think I have pointed out, like, six times, that it is a matter of Verifying the resolution of the Foreign Committee, and I'm sorry I didn't quote it exactly. To hear it accurately, I will read it to you: "The Foreign Committee takes note of the information submitted by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Security Information Service and the State Office for Nuclear Safety on current developments in Sergej Skripal's case." And now the key phrase: "Constating," that is, the foreign committee, "that according to the information of the Ministry of Defence and the Security Information Service, the reports of the Czech intelligence services agree that no novelty material has been produced or stored in the Czech Republic. Jan Lipavský by his own hand, rapporteur of the Committee." So it is not anything else, please nicely, we who have initiated this extraordinary meeting, which you have boycotted, and that is why we are now trying to include this point, so it is nothing more than this committee resolution to sign up to the Chamber of Deputies, thereby giving this information to the respective constitutional authority. All the Members of the Foreign Committee who voted in favour of this resolution have my admiration for being able to prevent their work from being confirmed by the Chamber of Deputies. But we're used to it now. We have noticed that even those who sign under some laws then willingly vote to reject them. New time, new habits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u28	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister Stanjuru with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u29	Good morning, Mr Vice-President, Minister of Demission, Minister of Demission - I can use a single number, we have one minister and one minister present. I will start with what Mrs Válková said, and I actually agree with her. That wasn't obstruction at 9:00, and certainly not creative and some effective. I consider this merely a change in the time of the opening of the meeting. Well, you could have told us that the meeting would start at 10:00, and we would have adapted. Never mind, we're flexible and creative, so what's been going on since we were nine, it's been going on since we were ten. Indeed, this cannot be used for either creative or effective obstruction. Moreover, I want to say that the Rules of Procedure offer various options for political tactics, not only for the opposition, but also for the government majority, and I fully respect that. Also, depending on whether we are part of a majority or a minority, we use different parts of the Rules of Procedure to promote our political objectives. I consider it legitimate. Just when you're back here crying about the opposition's obstructions, try to approach it as much as I do, that any club has the right to do it. And, of course, it's logical that he uses the majority against the minority, regardless of who makes up the majority or the minority. Because if a minority pulls out cards, most of them have no opposition vote and are better off acting or vice versa. And I want to remind those to whom the obstructions of the past period seemed like some extraordinary and lengthy, that, I feel, in 2011, we were six days and six nights - always 60 minutes was a break that day, so 23 hours a day we kept 67 Members present at least at 2:00, 3:00, 4:00, 5:00, 6:00 a.m., 7:00 a.m. Because as soon as the Social Democrats proposed a vote for ten minutes, we had to have 67 Members present in order to vote. At that time, I enriched Parliament's practice with a creative interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, which, meanwhile, has become human that when someone proposes a suspension of a point for three years or three months, the counterparty will perform and propose a suspension for three minutes, five minutes, six minutes. For those who don't understand: then it doesn't matter how the vote ends. Before the first thing goes away, after the three, five minutes, the MPs who make up the majority will run, and then they will reject the vote that would really push the point by weeks, months or years. [[10.30 hours]] However, by not being creative or effective, but stupid, so I looked into the tapestry, which is a terrible thing for all of us, everything we say here from the microphone can be used against us once, and I will allow you to quote from the psychic record of the paragraph of November 22, 2017, when we had an appointment and we had a second important point, the first was the pledge of Members to carry out our mandate, and that was the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. And then the candidate, our President Radek Vondráček today, said, among other things, this - I will not read his entire performance: "My ambition if I get the right trust is to be the guarantor of a fair discussion. The sentence of Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk - democracy - has been heard several times in this microphone and in the previous parliamentary term. These walls are not the end of the world. There's people out there, they're looking at us, we're under scrutiny. And it's all the more challenging for us. If you remember, next year - which is this year - we will remember a hundred years since the creation of a separate Czechoslovakia. I am simply convinced that the House can be a place of opinional conflict, even sharper and more aggressive. I'm used to it. So I fully respect that, the confrontation, but I have the ambition to lead the House so that we respect each other and that I can be the guarantor of a fair discussion." Compare these quoted words, which I think are very good, with what happened today at 9.00, at 9.01, at 9.02, at 9.03, I do not know when the President of the Chamber of Deputies interrupted the meeting indefinitely. I don't know. He hasn't called a meeting, nobody's talking to us about it. When will this meeting continue? Vice-President, you don't know either, do you? Well, maybe the President of the Chamber of Deputies knows, but he forgot that democracy is a debate, and so far he forgot to discuss it with us. All he could do was quote his words, how he didn't stick to them, and that instead of 9:32, I said those words at 10:32. Yesterday I read in the media the statement by the Honored Fellow of the ČSSD Member of Mr Chvojka, that there will be no extraordinary meeting for the approval of the programme with a justification - I do not quote exactly, Mr President, if I apologise to you through the Vice-President, you are on the one hand, so hopefully you will accept it - that you will not be part of the exhibition on the right. We're saying it repeatedly here, one more time. We do not really understand foreign policy and security issues of the Czech Republic and security issues of citizens of the Czech Republic as a conflict of government and opposition. I really don't. We do not want to gain political points there, we do not want to do political exhibitions, and if we join any proposal to convene an extraordinary meeting, it is because we consider the situation to be serious and, on the contrary, we would like to find, as far as possible, identical positions in the Chamber of Deputies in the areas of foreign policy and security policy. For us, for the civil democrats, I must strongly reject that. And if you look at the ODS representatives' comments on the case of the novice, I'm sure we're not looking for any party points, that we didn't use the strongest statements and that we're trying to defend the rules and institutions, which, in our opinion, is much more important than defending a particular person, depending on whether I'm in the government or in the opposition, or changing it depending on whether I'm entering or stepping out. Let's just try to remember what happened. In the UK, a chemical attack was carried out on a former Russian intelligence agent and his daughter. On that basis, Prime Minister Great Britain and her entire government have spoken with the opinion that they have reason to believe that the Russian Federation is behind the attack. They have turned to allies with a request for solidarity on this issue. And I must say, because the government is responsible for foreign policy in our country, that the government has fulfilled our allied commitments. Not only did she clearly support this view, but she added, I think, to those twenty states that showed solidarity, ally solidarity at the call of Great Britain, and expelled three diplomats, or three persons from the Russian diplomatic mission from the Czech Republic. I am reminding you of this to show that this is not a government conflict with the opposition, that I am not chasing political points here, and it is not an exhibition of the right. It was this left-wing government that expelled them, not the right-wing opposition. And we appreciated it. And the debate, whether three or two or four, was considered secondary. For us, it was important that the government acted as an ally, so the Czech Republic acted as an ally, and we appreciated the number of three, after all, because when you compare it with other states, it was rather above average, as other allies or those who expressed solidarity to the allies did. And that could be the end of the story. The government acted at the request of the allies, the right-wing opposition and other opposition parties, because not all opposition parties are opposition, in the majority they agreed, the minority may have legitimately had a different view in the Chamber of Deputies, and it was not at all a heated government versus coalition, left, versus right. After all, we have at least two left-wing sides that behave in this and move completely differently. Different is the procedure and the opinion of the KSČM and different is the position and procedure of the ČSSD. And I am not talking about it, President Chvojka, through the Vice-President, that we are witnessing an exhibition of the fight for left-wing voters between the left-wing parties. So I beg you not to call our efforts to reconcile foreign and security policy across the political spectrum with the greatest possible support, even though it is clear to me that on nine sides it is almost impossible to call it an exhibition. At least be specific and name specific parties or specific policies. We certainly don't do that. I won't turn to you again. That's enough. Thank you. When I said the case could have ended, he could have, but he didn't. The President of the Republic who informed - not in a speech, I don't know what I would call it exactly, the interview certainly is not, the gutter on one television channel certainly is not the speech of the President of the Republic, I think we could agree on that, the speech of the President of the Republic is on some other occasion. He simply told him with his own godliness: for the novice was made in our home. Contrary to the positions of our secret services. Opposite. Contrary to the Government's position, contrary to the position of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Defence, but also to the Prime Minister. We have even been informed that there are differences between the secret services. Then the problem was transferred to the authorities of the Chamber of Deputies. I already said that last week, we don't think it's happy that the foreign committee was concerned with this issue. We think... [[Objection from the O.R. that he can handle it.]] It can. I say that we do not consider this to be happy, this is not a strong formulation for the President of the Foreign Committee through the Vice-President. We think that it is precisely to control the secret services that the House is setting up special control bodies, and it is a good thing that both the two committees, both the Permanent Committee on Military Intelligence Control and the Permanent Committee on Security Information Service activity control, have discussed this. I am not a member of either of them, I know that they receive information there in a certain regime, however media outputs, but also the resolution of the Permanent Committee on Military Intelligence for us who are not members is absolutely clear. Let's remember him. There is no contradiction between the civil and military intelligence position. There's no contradiction. It is in agreement and disproves the position of the President of the Republic. [[10.40 hours]] It's exactly the opposite. It's not like the political opponents of Miloš Zeman are answering the question. The political friends of Miloš Zeman suddenly want to defend him, but in this case they cannot defend him objectively and fairly, because we have secret services to do so. And if the House's secret services control bodies, which they have or should have, I don't know if they are everywhere, represented by all their representatives, receive information from the heads of these secret services that the poison wasn't produced in our country, didn't store that they have the same opinions, that they equipped the relevant members of the government and the government as a whole, and if the supreme constitutional officer claims otherwise, that is an unsustainable claim. Then the search, the microsynthesis, the picosynthesis, if I paraphrase the words of Mr Luzar, who said a really nice sentence here, will be on the tape: He created a hype that continues the hype. I don't know what he means. Humbuk is the continuation of the hype. Seriously. Many of you are becoming part of Russian propaganda. Some undoubtedly unconsciously, and some undoubtedly consciously. Mr Luzar's performance was almost the same as that of the spokesperson of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Here maybe it was, who knows how it was, let's not say much, it's all some weird, picosynthesis, microsynthesis, nanosynthesis, I don't know what he used. That is basically - he does not see it that way, Mr Luzar, perhaps even members of the ANO movement do not see it - this is clearly an anti-government speech. Anti-government. We are the ones who support the government, it is a paradox on this issue. Note what he said at the beginning that the government was doing the right thing, and if the President of the Republic didn't extend the debate, the government would say at least from a large part of the opposition: right, thank you, you did well, even though you have no confidence, you are in remission. You know it from us, as we keep telling you, in demise, without trust, etc. This does not mean that we cannot appreciate a step that the government will take correctly. We never said it was 100, 0 that 100 percent of the government's actions were wrong, and right here that we complied with the request of Great Britain, expelled three Russian Federation citizens, applied to the position of Great Britain, was and is the right step. But the President of the Republic says it wasn't the right move, and he has other information. This is also an anti-government stance, which is normal. While we were at the government and Mr. President Miloš Zeman was already at the castle, he also had anti-government positions. I'm not gonna criticize it, I'm just saying. And now I'm gonna forget that somebody's not following political agreements. And let's try to remember that. After the President's speech, some opposition officials said: we will convene an emergency meeting. We citizens' Democrats have come up with some compromise solution, we have suggested that this be a proper point. There was even a match with the exception of the KSČM, that's to be said. The other eight parties agreed that the item would be at a proper meeting, even as the first item on the first day of the meeting. You who voted for elimination, with the exception of KSČM Members, have changed your mind flexibly. I don't mind if someone else has an opinion. That's what we're here to fight about. It bothers me when someone is discussing with me at ten o'clock what the resolution will be to vote for elimination at two o'clock. We could have forgiven the debate about the resolution, couldn't we, President Faltýnek, through Vice-President Hamáček? Let's remember. How long will it be, how many times will you perform: We say, it will be reasonable, we will be short. We will take the foreign committee's resolution on the basis of which almost all Members from all political parties have participated, etc. Well, then it was different, and then make deals with President Faltýnek. That's really hard, isn't it? I wouldn't mind if they came and at least said "grémia," there was a mistake on the organizing committee, get ready, it won't be, we'll be against it. That's legit again. I don't mind if we make a deal, and then somebody doesn't keep it. I consider that the worst that can happen to us in the Chamber of Deputies. It's normal that we don't make a deal. That is also why we represent other voters, we have other political programs, we choose other means of political struggle. We wanted to enrich the resolution of the Foreign Committee, which is written in such a diplomatic language, which, of course, suits the Foreign Committee, we wanted to suggest rather that the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies should be based on the resolution of our Permanent Commission for the Control of Military Intelligence. And since I am a political realist, and I know that the item will not be included on the agenda in the end, but it is a pity that you do not remember the resolution, not all of us are members of this permanent Military Intelligence Commission, so I will read you the resolution that it adopted, or the President of Rakušan may add how many votes it was, I really do not know whether it was unanimous or whether it was some kind of combat vote by one vote. Permanent Committee on the Control of the Activity of Military Intelligence after the report by the Director of Military Intelligence Jan Beroun and following the debate I. Takes note of the information submitted by Military Intelligence on current developments in the case of Novice, II. Notes that according to information from Military Intelligence, only laboratory microsynthesis for research and protective purposes was carried out, which is not under the international Convention, which is the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and their Destruction, considered to be production, and quite conclusively - it was not a substance which, according to the available information, was poisoned by persons in the Sergej Skripal case, III. This permanent commission for the control of Military Intelligence calls on the Czech President to maintain a classified regime of intelligence and, in the event of confusion, to consult the Czech Government and the Czech Secret Service primarily on the matter. That is certainly not an anti-government resolution. Certainly not, and if he passes that point, then we will propose that it be the basis or that it be voted on, because we, given the importance of the presidency in the Czech Republic, if anyone is to address any challenge, appeal, a request to the President, regardless of who the President is at the moment, it should be the Chamber of Deputies as a whole, and not just its supervisory commission. And I want to thank this committee and say that it is a good basis for such a resolution to be adopted by the Chamber of Deputies as a whole. And I will not, once again, turn to President Chvojka's Member through the Vice-President to tell me, if he looks at the three points, the resolution of the Permanent Commission, what is the exhibition of the right? There is nothing right-wing in this resolution. Not really. The right is in opposition to the government and we say that the President should consult with the government, which are our political rivals and political competitors. But since this resolution is also written in a diplomatic and parliamentary language, we have prepared two other resolutions, written in the political language of the citizens' democrats, for which we would like to receive support, namely that: The Chamber of Deputies as a whole asks the National Security Office to check the legality of the handling of classified information in the Office of the President of the Republic, and asks the National Security Office to inform the NSA of the results of this verification within six months. Nor does this resolution go against the President of the Republic, but against the Office, i.e. the Office of the President of the Republic. I think our law, when the President of the Republic can do secret services with the government's knowledge, is correct. It's standard, it's right. What is not right is for those tasks to be publicly announced and, where appropriate, for the results of activities, investigations or investigations of secret services to be publicly presented. This is a matter which should be in the interests of all political parties and all Members. That's why we have secret services, that's why we have a special inspection committee, and we fully respect that. We fully respect that only executives and not very legislative can access the data. And I say again, that's right. No matter how much we're in opposition. Let us respect that government members have intelligence at their disposal. Another thing if the members of the government want to discuss the political implications of certain decisions or certain actions that have taken place with opposition representatives. But that's another thing, it's not sharing intelligence. This is a normal political consultation for us - and I am going back to what I have begun to see this as crucial - to defend the foreign policy and security interests of citizens of the Czech Republic together. [[10.50 hours]] We are trying to do this at this point. I ask you to put off your party shirts for a moment, try to assess the proposed resolutions not according to who designed them or who presented them here, but whether they have a head and a heel. In principle, we propose that I make it easier for the Chamber of Deputies to say: we trust our secret services and we appreciate the progress of the government in the case of a novice. There's nothing else. If you want it that explicitly, instead of what's written there, it's in the debate, if the point passes, suggest it, we'll support it. If it seems pointless to you, and it's not enough, it's not enough. If the state is to function, we first have to say that we trust the institutions of the Czech state, among which the secret services are undoubtedly included. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u30	Now I have two applications with priority rights. First, the President of the House, then the President of the KSČM Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard my name, so thank you to President Stanjur, through the President, for reminding me of my words and I am pleased to say that I am carrying out these resolutions as far as possible. Because if Mr. Stanjura may have looked at the log as voted out on Tuesday, I got held up. I consider this to be really my position as President of the House, that I should do so in these cases. Just like this morning, I was one of the logged ins. I can't prove that anymore, but I was logged in, and I assumed that the meeting would take place. But in order for an emergency meeting to be held by members of opposition clubs to take place, at least 67 Members who are interested and who will vote must come to work. How many were logged in at the time? Including me, I mean 34 or 40. And those clubs have 70 members. And I say, including me. So what is the chairman supposed to do at that point? Under the Rules of Procedure, there is nothing left to do but interrupt the meeting, and I have interrupted it with the agreement of the club presidents. I ask if Mr Stanjura has reached out to any other club presidents at all and is looking for a solution or coming up with a solution. Of course, I would like it much more if there were no abuse of priority rights, when we are talking about novices instead of voting on the program. But the moment there was no deal, there was nothing left but an interruption. I have one historical experience, and this is from last term, a meeting about the Czech Post Office. It was, I guess, a 32nd meeting. At that moment, Vice-President Petr Gazdík chaired and, on the basis of Mr Stanjura's proposal, the vote was suspended and was not a quorum. Vice-President Gazdík cut off the meeting at that time, there is no "until the club's agreement," and that was the last sentence of the extraordinary meeting, and the meeting was never reunited, the grémium never met, nor did anyone call on the grémium to meet. [[Screams in the hall.]] Steno footage is available, please don't shout at each other. So I've been making the most of it. I'd love for this extraordinary meeting to take place in some way, but those who want it have to do something about it. If you don't meet in the necessary number, the President can't do anything else. And now it's 10.54 and I don't see any progress. I suggest that the grémium should meet five minutes after the end of the lunch break, and you can introduce me to your other plans for how you will address this situation. But please don't take my name into your mouth in a situation where I can say that I have fully respected my neutrality and acted quite correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u32	Now I have four applications with priority rights. I also register President Kalousek. Please don't yell at each other, everyone will have room. So please Mr Luzar, then with priority rights, President Fiala, then President Michálek, and then President Kalousek, all priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not want to prolong this discussion, so I will use the obligatory and classic, and it is a reaction to my previous speakers, who started their long introduction by quoting the story, and it can be summed up in one sentence: Better to be wrong with England than... than to complete it afterwards. And on that basis, we took some steps. But to be wrong, that's very important. That word is beginning to prove wrong, and that is the problem that colleagues are constantly trying to push away. And the interesting thing is, when there's a quote from the tapestry and there are colleagues who like to use it in their argument, at 9.03 they could watch the tapestry of their own performance from today when they started: We wanted to call it together just to confirm the foreign committee's resolution. That's all we asked of you, colleagues and colleagues. And during the conversation: We wanted to enrich it, we wanted to even adopt three additional resolutions, so here we miss a little bit at the beginning of the word, so we just wanted to confirm, or we wanted to build up some political capital, we wanted to give some extra arguments. And in the performances, the resolution of the Supervisory Intelligence Commission is used here, and it is proposed to enrich. And I say here again that this resolution is wrong because it refers to something that is not mentioned in the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Stockpiling and the Use of Chemical Weapons and their Destruction, or that it lists those who will work with this resolution and who would also like to vote for it, in error. And that, in my opinion, is quite a serious matter. So I think that this commission should go back to its resolution and at least on this one thing, i.e. The appeal to the international treaty should correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u34	Thank you. Mr. Fiala, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of things that have been said here. If we could have a substantive discussion about the Novice case, I would certainly not have left aside what Mr Luzar, the Communist Member, is pointing out here, but I will not do it now because I am interested in another and more important matter. I want to respond to the words of the President of the Chamber of Deputies Vondráček. He asked, "What was I supposed to do? Mr President, I think it's very simple and standard what you should have done. You really should have interrupted the meeting for ten minutes and given the opportunity to Members who had, perhaps, some objective obstacles, why they couldn't get here so they could come, and after ten minutes, if we hadn't actually met, I would have understood your approach. But to do it at 9.03, I really don't understand, and it's not standard. And all that explains is that you just knew that this is the strategy with which the voting majority would speak here, the coalition that here is that the strategy is not to sign up and obstruct, that you knew that even if it had just signed up and that all 55 Members who asked to convene this extraordinary meeting were present, it would not be enough, and that is why you acted as you did. But I think when you ask me it wasn't okay that you had a meeting, an emergency meeting, a ten-minute break, and we could go on. That would be normal. And the fact that we interrupted the meeting and we have to move forward and that you suggested that the presidents of the MPs meet, so now it is not the responsibility of President Stanjura to call and address everyone. You're the one asking him, "What did you do?" Have you done anything yet? Well, that's your responsibility, among other things. So be aware of your responsibility as President of the Chamber of Deputies, be aware of your responsibility for this situation that we have come into. And I say again, the solution was very simple and it would be standard. What happened here, it just isn't standard and it's not normal, and I hope it doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u36	Good morning, honourable Members. Let's keep going. The President of the Pirates Club, Mr Michálek, is also registered with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u37	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked a number of club presidents how to proceed, and the majority of the chairmen of the Pirates, KDU, STAN, ODS and TOP 09 have agreed that, given that the previous meeting has been interrupted because of a small number of Members, and now the number of Members has already increased to 141, it would be logical to complete the topic that we have begun and which we have interrupted in order to discuss the novice. Members are already 141, so there is no reason why we cannot continue the topic that has already been launched. I'm making a procedural motion to interrupt this meeting, and in order to start the adjourned meeting immediately afterwards, we've completed the novice, and then we're back to the agenda we have at this meeting. I therefore ask that the vote be voted without debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u38	Of course, I will vote on the procedural proposal to interrupt this meeting, but if the suspended meeting continues then, that is a different vote. We can't do that at this meeting right now. But, of course, I will put a procedural motion to interrupt this meeting without debate. I'm gonna sing. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide whether the Chamber of Deputies is willing to interrupt the 13th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and return to the 14th meeting at which there were insufficient Members. The number of entries has stabilized. We will decide in the vote number 162, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of interrupting the 13th meeting. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 162 of 147 for 59, against 29. Your proposal was not accepted. We will continue with Mr Bartošek's speech. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u39	Thank you. As part of the vote under way, I would like to say that the current opposition starts somewhere here and ends up over there. [[shows the right hand to the SPD benches]] [[shows the left hand to the KSČM benches]] A monolithic block has been created here, which is proceeding in a coordinated manner in absolutely fundamental votes, and is made up of the SPD, the ANO movement, social democracy and communists. I respect that. It's full will to create a majority. But one thing we can agree on is that even a minority has the right to speak. [[Laughs from the benches of the ANO Members.]] Of course, we've called an emergency meeting, we've placed a point. In either case, you did not want this matter to be discussed within the framework of a proper debate. That's what needs to be realized. That means you don't act like gentlemen. You do not leave the option of a minority to discuss in an emergency meeting, within a clearly placed point. Otherwise, Mr President, even if he is not here, so is the President. [[Turns to the chair bench, Chairman of PS Vondráček is currently not present in the hall]] When you interrupted the meeting, I wanted to object to the President's procedure, because interrupting the meeting indefinitely until the club presidents agree, it's basically like sending us to hell with the fact that you don't want to talk about it in the future at all. If you do not wish to resign as President of the Chamber of Deputies as one who coordinates the work of the Chamber of Deputies, your task was to interrupt, convene the Presidents of the Clubs of Deputies and arrange for further action. The solution you have chosen clearly indicates that it was a pre-arranged strategy that did not want to give space to the opposition to address that point. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u40	That was President Bartošek. Now we have a duly signed-up agenda for the meeting of Mr. Colleague... Now I don't know who was first, but Mr. Jurečka, Mr. Benešík and Mr. Hájek are registered. But I do see priority rights from my colleague Kalousek and Bělobrádek. My colleague Bělobrádek is younger, so he gave the elder priority. With priority rights, Mr Jurečka, I must give priority to my colleague Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u41	I would also very much like the President of the Chamber of Deputies to behave like a gentleman. On the other hand, if he did, he'd soon know he didn't want to do it anymore. So in a way, let's look for an understanding for him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u42	Thank you. Mr Bělobrádek, President of the KDU-ČSL with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u43	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Dear government, colleagues, I think what is important here is what has been said. The agenda for the meeting is now being designed. I think that there should be a resolution concerning, above all, the commissions, the Permanent Committee on Military Intelligence Control and the Permanent Commission on Security Information Control. I do not think it is reasonable for there to be a resolution concerning the Foreign Committee, because the Foreign Committee is not legally set up to do so in order to address intelligence reports. I believe that what has been said here is that we should not deal with this, that the permanent commissions are the House's bodies, and I can actually tell you here again that this proposal is also given to give room to the two Presidents to actually introduce you here to how and what was going on on the individual standing committees that relate to the novice. If you consider it appropriate that it's good for us to talk about it, and everyone, not just those with priority rights, I'll read you the exact text. But if it didn't happen, which is to be assumed, there really wasn't any type of novice that was produced in our country or tested or stored. And through Mr President, what Mr Luzar said, first of all, I think it is not dignified for you to call what Mr President said that it is... What did you say? [[Mr. Jurečka says from the alley: Humbuk.]] That it's a hype. I think it would be a good idea to say a better word about Mr. President than he did the hype. Anyway, whatever was used here, the microsynthesis isn't written there, because it wasn't about her at all. It's like you took the paper that says, white is white, and you would say, but there's nothing written about the black. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] Of course. This came from what you quoted from those international documents, but from what actually happened here. It wasn't made here, it wasn't stored, it wasn't developed by a novice. But the problem is that the President has said something, it can be traced from public sources, it is recorded, and the two committees which are set up by the House have spoken about this. And it's good to talk about it here because it has an international impact. And the Prime Minister of this country has expressed himself and expressed himself differently than the president of this country. It is important to give a clear signal inside and outside the Czech Republic, as it was. And the House is competent to do so, and it has its permanent commissions that can comment on it. And talk about it being useless to talk about it. Well, it's not pointless, because it's a fundamental political issue that affects our security, the international situation. That means, I'm sure we're supposed to have this meeting. The fact that it was a deal, and then some of you knocked it down, that's one possibility. On the other hand, I also think that the President of the House who is not here, the President of the House cannot say: so come and tell me what you have invented. [[♪ Looking around ♪]] The President of the House is here to direct the House and to summon the authorities to agree. The President of the House should be the one who, at the time of the situation, should have convened the presidents of the MPs, or the whole of the Gremium, and he should have taken an active stand for the situation to be resolved. So you thought we couldn't say what we wanted, so we had to do it differently. I'm sure you don't want an emergency meeting in this case. So let the point I proposed be included in this meeting so that everyone can discuss it and that we can really give a clear message that we are prepared to support the Prime Minister's position from the opposition! Because of all the facts that we have and which have secret services that do not differ in their findings, which have emerged from their investigation, so let us make this clear. This is the work of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u44	So it was with priority rights Mr. Chairman Bělobrádek. A colleague of Jurečka is now duly registered and a colleague Benešík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u45	Thank you. Good morning, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Mr President. Allow me to comment on the agenda of the meeting. And a certain experience of a man who was four years not only a member of the government but also a member of the Security Council of the State. I think that the Czech Republic, the Czech citizens and representatives of this state, such as the Prime Minister, such as the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence, deserve to be clear about this case that we are discussing here, and about the statements made by the President, the statements made by the Prime Minister, the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. People ask me how it is, too. These people feel insecure, as well as against foreign partners, when governments often accept different conventions and agreements between states and their information services, it is important that this issue be clarified so that the Czech Republic remains a credible partner on these foreign security issues. I would very much like to see the opportunity to act on this subject today when it failed in the morning. And here I will say, there has also been a situation where a member of the government arrived with a ten-minute delay and, in good faith, the Chamber of Deputies interrupted the meeting for ten minutes so that it could continue. There was goodwill! I missed the good will this morning from the Prime Minister. However, it is now possible to include it in this meeting that is taking place. And I would like the Prime Minister, the former Minister of Defence and the current Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence to comment on this. To give a clear opinion on this from them, plus from competent Members who are members of the various committees competent to do so. And I dare say one important thing. When this government came here to ask for the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies, it had its programming statement here, and it still has, one paragraph, dear colleagues from the ANO movement. The government in this composition must listen far more than any other government to the opposition's proposals and cooperate actively, because this government model requires frequent acquisition of support from other parliamentary parties, and we expect that this will widen the scope for constructive opposition work. Those are the words, please nicely, let's do the actions. In an hour, the item can be discussed, a resolution that supports what the Prime Minister said and purifies the Czech Republic and our citizens in the eyes of other foreign partners. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u46	But, Mr. Ambassador, what suggestion? Because you were talking to the program. Otherwise, I couldn't give you my word. Tell me the point we're supposed to be discussing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u47	On the point proposed by Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, who proposes to include the question of the President's statement and the Prime Minister at this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u48	We've heard of my colleague Bělobrádek. So you only wanted to repeat his proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u49	I would like to express my proposal as a Member to support this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u50	First of all, Mr. Ambassador, we are discussing the agenda for the 13th meeting. So if you haven't suggested a new point, you're just supporting my colleague Bělobrádek's proposal. I'm gonna have to take a vote, which is why I want to get this straight. We voted on the adjournment of the meeting, and you didn't have enough votes to do that either. So it's really not my fault, nor anybody else in the chair. And I need to comply with the Rules of Procedure. So you're not suggesting any new point, you're merely supporting the vote to include the Bělobrádek item. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u51	Mr Vice-President, I don't think you're supposed to argue with me in this spirit here, to discuss. I have made it clear on which point of the draft agenda for this meeting, I have said so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u52	You didn't make that clear! That's why I'm asking you this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u53	Please, let's respect each other and let's make a deal. I am, when you read the screen recording, so at the beginning of my speech I made it clear which point of the draft programme I am expressing myself on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u54	Well, I should have taken your word for it, in that case! And you haven't kept up for five minutes. Next logged in is a colleague Benešík. On the agenda, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u55	Of course. Mr President, Mr Government, ladies and gentlemen, my proposal is that if the point to the novice is not the first one, I propose that a vote be put on the second one. Because I think that this point should be discussed by the Chamber of Deputies. I will. We are this point in the context of the Prime Minister's information after the European Council, where this was dealt with at the meeting, among other things. and the representatives of the United Kingdom, discussed on the committee, and this item was reserved without the public because of the sensitive information at the time. We have concluded our committee on this point so that information which, at that time, would probably not be able to fall publicly, or in the presence of a public who normally has access to the committee meetings, can fall. I personally think - there were Members from all over the political spectrum, and I think that these Members should have the opportunity to comment on what was said there, so as to explain this, in my opinion, a large communication misunderstanding, perhaps deliberate, perhaps unintended, between the Czech Government and the President of the Czech Republic. And I would like to appeal to those colleagues who are thinking about whether or not to include this point in order to remember that in January of this year, in my opinion, we have been discussing completely unnecessaryly all day and spending taxpayers' money on the so-called. Dublin IV. Concerning the material discussed by the Committee on European Affairs for a year and a half in advance. He discussed it in September 2016, adopted a resolution, the resolution became part of the negotiating position of the governments of the Czech Republic. The governments of the Czech Republic, whether the government in which KDU-ČSL was a coalition partner or the government where KDU-ČSL was not a coalition partner, respected this resolution, followed him. The Chamber of Deputies, despite the majority, decided that it was such an important subject to be discussed at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, although the resolution of our committee has the strength of the entire Chamber of Deputies and the government has respected it, and we have included it, we have discussed it. And finally, what did we accept? We have adopted the resolution that I, as rapporteur in committee, have proposed. Exactly the same, only in a shortened form, so that it can be understood by the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. That's when we did it. It was simply, it was justified, it is such an important subject, politically it is much more important to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Let's discuss it! What happened was that we were discussing all day what the Chamber of Deputies had already discussed through their committee. We have adopted an almost identical resolution, only in a shortened form, but we have done so. Today we are in a situation where, in my opinion, our committee and other committees have been discussing at least the same serious thing, but in a public exclusion regime, in a regime that is not public, and we are not going to reject information to our fellow citizens in such a difficult situation today. KDU-ČSL wants the citizen to be informed so that he knows how his politicians work!. I hope that if you do not support this point first, you will support it second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u56	Thank you for keeping time on the agenda during the Rules of Procedure. Now with priority rights before colleague Hájek, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u57	At the last meeting from the news block, we eliminated reports on the activities of Czech Radio and Czech Television for 2016 with a justification that there is still no discussion of the activities of the Czech Press Office for 2016 and then a report on the activities of the great council, in other words the Radio and Television Council, on the state of radio and television broadcasting and on the provision of audiovisual media services on request for 2016. I mean, the electoral committee, of which I am a member, has already discussed both these reports, both recommended to the Chamber of Deputies for approval. [[11.20 hours]] It used to be customary, not always, but very often, that Thursday morning was used to discuss the news block or the contract block. At this point, I would like to propose that we include point 98 of the Report on the activities of the Radio and Television Council as the second item of our programme today. As a third point, in order to make it as simple and quick as possible, point 102 of the Annual Activity and Management Report of the Czech Press Office for 2016. Then as the fourth point 100 of the Annual Report on the activities of Czech Television in 2016, as the fifth point today, the Annual Report on the management of Czech Television in 2016. I think we are able to discuss all these reports until 13:00 today and we are able to approve these reports as recommended by the electoral committee. I remind you that today is the last day of May 2018 and we are to discuss reports for 2016, which is therefore a deep past, but we must discuss them. I would like to ask the Vice-President to vote on my proposals individually.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u58	Individually, okay. So 98, 102, 100, 101, right? In that order. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We can continue with the performance of our colleague Hájek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u59	Mr President, fellow Members, I will abide by the Rules of Procedure, so I will read first the title of the point which I want to include on the agenda for this meeting. This item is called Abort of the 14th extraordinary meeting The Chamber of Deputies convened in the case of novice caused by the absence of a part of the ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates. Now the justification. This extraordinary meeting was convened by 55 Members. At the House meeting, I think 40 of them, supported by the voice of the President of the House. The Democratic bloc has 48 Members, 22 Members are Pirates, i.e. 48 plus 22 is 70. Kvorum is 67. Here it is blamed - I read here, I quote the words of Mr Marek the Výborný through Mr President, who acknowledged: The arrogance of the coalition YES, SPD, KSČM has no limits. A properly convened meeting - did not mention extraordinary - did not even begin with the case of novice because its Members refused to sign up. - I would ask Mr Výborný, through Mr President, to complete this evening: and also because many of our Members from the Democratic bloc did not come to work. End of quote. What's going on? We have made it clear here that the parties to the SPD, YES, KSČM and ČSSD will not support the programme of this extraordinary meeting. So we wanted to show our citizens what your interest is in discussing this point! That's why we checked out! To show how much he really wants to fight you for this case! There are 40 of you, without Prime Minister 39. That's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u60	Thank you for keeping time. I now have two priority rights - Mr Fiala and Mr Stanjura. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised to see this, but I have a certain understanding that some Members are not entirely watching what is happening in politics, what is happening in the Chamber of Deputies, how things are developing, and I am accustomed to patiently explaining these things over and over again. So, Mr Hájek, through Mr President, there is no Democratic bloc. The democratic bloc was created in the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of the Rules of Procedure only for the time of the establishment of the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies and then, in accordance with this provision and with the Rules of Procedure, its activities were naturally exhausted and ceased. So if you're arguing about the current existence of the Democratic bloc, you're going back to October, November of last year, but you're completely out of political reality and anything that matches how clubs are organized in the Chamber of Deputies. So I would beg you to start to see what's going on around you and respect that there are separate political parties' clubs, but there is no Democratic bloc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u62	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u63	Well, it's only been five months, so let's not be so hard on Mr. Hájek. Five months, he hasn't noticed it yet. If it's a year, it'll be suspicious. So far, let's think of it as a deliberate foul. Of course, Mr Hájek knows, and he thinks it will hurt us. It won't hurt us, Mr. Ambassador, through... But the peculiar logic. Kvorum is 67. I understand. The President of the Chamber of Deputies has volunteered, so one of the club of the ANO movement was present at the meeting, 77 in the dictum - I do not see it - in the diction of Mr Hájek, 77 Members... Maybe there was at least one minister, right? So it can even start. Was there a minister here? I was excused until 9:20. But thanks to the fact that the supporter of a fair discussion, who performs as President of the Chamber of Deputies, did not even read the apologies! Notice how every meeting begins - by reading the apologies. [[Objection from the diaper.]] No, they haven't been read. But it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u64	I will ask the House for peace and let us argue, please, in a matter of fact. On the one hand, you say, Mr President, that you have not been here, so, of course, you can hardly confirm that there have been no apology readings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u65	I'm based on a statement from members of my own club. They have my trust.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u66	I beg the peace of the House! The chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura has the floor. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u67	So a member of the ANO movement was at work in the dictum of Mr Hájek. One. And now he wants to point out that for example. My colleagues, who came in at 9.04 because they had traffic complications, didn't they have enough to put the card there - weren't they at work, Mr Hájek through the Vice-President? You yourself know very well that you have made use of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I kind of like it. I'm not accusing you of that, I'm kind of smiling. But don't give me that rumor that someone was or wasn't at work! If you're sitting here like hell, you don't tuck a card in, you can't talk, so don't tell me you were at work! If that's how you want to communicate and evaluate the work of your colleagues. That means that you, when you're sitting here and you don't have a card inserted, you're not present, according to the log, so you're working, and when a colleague who listens and sits in an MP's office isn't at work? What kind of nonsense is that?! I'm gonna vote for that point, and I'm gonna be happy to have a debate with you about who goes to work. And who's doing something at the job? Not only does he sit here and then he likes to have funny points. We can't prove who was here today or not. But Mr. Hájek - I don't know if he was logged in, if he was at work! According to his diction. I think he was at work when he was here. And it doesn't matter if he put the card in or if he didn't. But if anyone just wants to get political points out of something, listen to Mr. Hájek, what he was actually saying, what he was suggesting. He thought it was so funny. It's a shame someone other than you and your fellow party people didn't laugh. That narrows the range of your wannabe funny note a little bit. The only thing you've achieved is that instead of having an emergency meeting by 10:00, we obviously don't want to discuss and work in your diction and discuss reports for 2016, very important, which you have your poor justification that they are not all, canceled the last time, excluded from the meeting, we were against elimination. They're all on the agenda today, we're on the seventh meeting day of the 13th meeting, and he's not getting to it again. And it's because of you. So you can keep the talk about who goes to work and doesn't go to work. I respect that. I said I didn't see it as a misunderstanding. [[unintelligible]] You really should have told us that the meeting would start at 10:00, not 9:00. That's all you've accomplished. [[11.30 hours]] But I have good news for Mr Hájek. I'm gonna vote for that point because I'm happy to lead the controversy with him where he was when he wasn't logged in, what he was doing at 9.03. Or is it true that Members are only to be present when their own proposals are made? This means that it is assumed that when there is a government proposal, opposition Members will leave, and when there is an opposition proposal, government MPs will leave? We don't get it. You may, Mr Hájek, through the Vice-President. We really don't. But I'm a fan of fair discussion, and in order to be free to debate it, that point has to be placed, without which it would not be possible, I'm sure we can agree. I just reacted that I had priority rights. I'm not going back to that again. When that item is placed, I will be happy to enter into the debate and continue to lead the controversy with you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u68	This was with the priority right of the President of the ODS. Now, Mr Skopeček and then Mr Výborný - still on the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u69	Yes. Thank you for the floor. I really want to go back to the very beginning of today's meeting, when President Faltýnek proposed the inclusion of a point, namely the Stability, Coordination and Governance Treaty in Economic and Monetary Union, which was the first point. I'd like to make a counterproposal. I would like us to open this treaty until a meeting where we have confidence in the government. I think President Faltýnek has probably forgotten because it has been a long time since this government has worked, it is a record time when it works without trust, and it brings us here a rather dramatic international treaty, which is an important point of foreign policy. The previous two Chambers of Deputies failed to complete the ratification process, although there were governments with confidence. So I would like to remind President Faltýnek that this really is not a government with confidence and that the House should wait until the government for such important points of international foreign policy. So I suggest that we move on to a fiscal point at the next meeting, or may it be interrupted if your inclusion passes until the government has confidence. I believe I'll have a defender in the Secretary of Finance, too, because that would put her in a not entirely enviable position. The Minister argued that he did not send to the Chamber of Deputies, for example, a tax package with tax reductions, because it is such an important political matter when he wants to wait for the government with confidence, he wants to wait for a clear political majority. We all agree that the abolition of the supergross wage versus the final ratification of the fiscal pact, this international treaty, will certainly be at least equally important things, so I do not know how the Minister could argue that, on the one hand, he does not want to reduce taxes, he does not want to send to the Chamber of Deputies a package that reduces taxes because it is a politically important thing, and he is waiting for the government with confidence, and suddenly it would be for such a strong foreign policy treaty to be discussed. So once again, I'm going to repeat this proposal: move this point to a meeting where the government will be confident or interrupt if Mr. Faltýnek's proposal passes. But I believe he will remember that it is a government without trust and that such a treaty does not belong here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u70	Thank you. I understand that if this did not pass the fixed ranking, it would be voted out of this meeting at the following meeting. That's a legitimate suggestion. Now my colleague Výborný as last logged in. And I'm alone because half an hour from the beginning of the meeting, it was a long time ago. Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u71	Mr Vice-President, dear fellow Members, I am very sorry to do this, but to be able to speak here, I suggest that, in the absence of a vote, the inclusion of the point proposed by Mr Pavel Bělobrádek as the first or second item of today's agenda of the 13th meeting should not be voted, so I suggest that this be included as the third point. It is a clownhouse and I am saying it out loud here, but in order for members of the YES movement to be here, through you, Mr Vice-President, Mr Vondrák, to laugh that we can speak - we can't! We cannot, because this point is not included, and I am merely this way through completely stupid inclusion as a third point, so that the Vice-President does not have to train me not to speak here, because I am not speaking on the agenda, so this is the only chance that all Members who could comment on this matter will not get to do so democratically on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, because you reject whether an extraordinary meeting or inclusion as a proper item on the agenda of this meeting. That's all. And if the Vice-President of the KSČM here is talking about the fact that they were Members here on the right who did not allow this meeting without their absence, then I just quote his statement: The House's negotiations for novice were intended to slander President Miloš Zeman, so the Communist Members did not sign up and contributed to the fact that Tuesday's meeting was not a quorum. So it was perfectly clear, we all knew. They were not only members of the KSČM, they were also members of the ANO, SPD and ČSSD movement. That's how it was arranged. And the only objective here was to prevent this matter from being discussed normally on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. We could've gotten this over with. It's moved an hour, and it's going all the way down here for nothing. And we talk a lot about procedural matters here, instead of making a clear statement about the case itself, about the contradictions that were obviously here between the President of the Republic and the Government. And once again, our goal was to support the government led by Andrej Babiš, because the expression was correct. I don't understand if it's just some clues about Andrej Babiš talking to Miloš Zeman this afternoon so he doesn't get behind his ears. I really don't understand! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u72	Thank you for keeping time. On this point, I note that you did not have to make it a third point, you might have been able to do so after Stanjura's proposals, but that is up to everyone how he does it. Mr. Bělobrádek. To the program, or will you specify your point? [[The program.]] The program. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u73	Thank you, Mr President. I am also prepared to support Mr Hájek's proposal, and at the same time, if you would allow yourself to continue like this, there is no problem in calling an emergency meeting or proposing a point of the presence of a single member of the ANO movement for the opening of the meeting. If you want to continue like this, it's okay, we can include other people who haven't been here to work, basically, as you say through the President. So there's no problem, but I'm prepared to support the meeting, as you suggested, the point, the inclusion, and we can talk about it, so who was at the job, who was working and who wasn't, and how many Members are there in the case of the conveners of this meeting, the inclusion of this point, they want to stand up for Andrej Babiš - a typical example of Antibabiš, right? That was a joke, of course. So, in this case, you can see how the Prime Minister's position is concerned about this and his colleagues from the government, and how his own Members will stand up to it. So I am prepared to support this point, and I have no problem with it being renamed, and I propose that the title of this point be supplemented by the presence of a dash of the absence of all members of the ANO movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u74	Okay, thank you. That's how we've exhausted the proposals for the agenda of the meeting... A colleague of Michálek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u75	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm just in terms of procedural purity, because I think the evaluation document is useless and it's inaccurate, it's untrue, so I wanted to suggest in accordance with § 72 para. 5, to vote separately on the part - the text: "abort of the 14th meeting" and then on the second part, and if this proposal does not pass, so as to discuss the release of that part from the word "non-existence." So these are two additional procedural proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u76	Okay. Thank you. We will therefore now decide by voting on the proposals that have fallen. I'll read the apologies first. Mr Jurečka, from 12 o'clock to the end of the day, until the end of the day from 12 o'clock, Mr Běhounek, from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m., Mr Pávek, as a result of the hearing, Mr Farský apologizes from the whole day, and Mr Bartoš apologized from oral intervention, i.e. for the afternoon hearing, from 10.30 a.m. to 13 p.m., Mr Petrtýl and Mr Vondrák from 14.30 to 19 p.m. [[11.40 hours]] We will now vote on individual proposals. The first proposal is Mr Faltýnek's proposal - paragraph 61, and that is the first point today. We shall decide in the following vote. I'll check you out and ask you for a new check-in. Please log in with your ID cards and we'll make a decision. We will vote on inclusion as the first item in this morning's meeting item 61, House press 97, fiscal compact. We will decide in the vote the serial number 163 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 163: 150 Members present for 99 against 44. I can therefore declare the proposal of my colleague Skopeček to be unvoting because the proposal has been accepted. We will now vote on the proposal of my colleague, Mr Bělobrádek. [[Unintelligible comments from the diaper.]] Well, it's in the vote now, Mr President. Please, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u77	I'm sorry. So at least the first part, not the interruption, but the part that can be voted out is. We haven't started that point yet, it won't be now, there will be another vote. So the motion to remove the item from the agenda is legitimate, even though it is ranked first today. Because we're going to vote before that point gets started. Of course, if the House refuses, it stays first today. But we can rule out any point in our vote, regardless of when it is included, if it has not yet begun, and this has not yet been started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u78	I'm not gonna argue with the procedure. So we can vote. But then in order. Now, then, my colleague Bělobrádek's proposal: the conflicting position of the Prime Minister and President of the Republic on the production, or the Institute of Novice Production in the Czech Republic, whether I replicated it correctly, and therefore we will vote on whether it should be the first, second or third point, if you will allow this order. Yes? So we are voting on this to be the first point, which means that we are now voting on the inclusion of the point, and then we would vote on whether, first, second, third. I have begun the vote on order number 164 and I ask who is in favour of including such a point. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 164: out of 152 present for 59, versus 55. The item was not included, so we will not vote whether it will be the first, second or third, because there has been no inclusion of the item. Then we have Mr Stanjura's proposals for a vote, and that is the classification of prints 98, 102, 100 and 101, in that order, yes? Prime Minister, 98, 102,100, 101, yes? [[The President shall refer to President Stanjuru]] Everyone separately, okay? First of all, the RRTV report, House Press 98. I've begun the vote on order number165, and I'm asking who's in favour as the second point. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 165: 153 for 67, against no one. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the ČTK report, paragraph 102. I've started the vote with order number 166, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 166: out of 154 present for 66, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Next is the report by the Czech Television Council, number 100. I've started the vote with order number 167, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 167: of 154 present for 67, against no one. Even this point has not been included. And the last vote is on item 101, that is the second report of the Czech Television Council in 2016. I've started the vote on order 168 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 168: out of 154 present for 67, against one. This proposal was not accepted either. Now we must deal with Mr Hájek's proposal, and if he is included, we will discuss exactly what it will sound like. Is my colleague Michálek listening to me? Because first there will be a vote on the inclusion of the item and then on its precise wording. That means, in what way, with the separation of the individual points. Yes? [[Disadvised notes from the diaper.]] It wasn't, it was a meeting assignment. I didn't hear another suggestion, it wasn't specified in time. My colleague Hájek will specify.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u79	I'll leave it to the Organizing Committee. This means that I have proposed the agenda for this meeting and, of course, it depends on the Organising Committee when it will include it in the agenda for this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u80	Okay, so we would only vote on the inclusion in the meeting, with the fact that we would vote on its firm inclusion if it were to be included. Yes? Like this. So now he's... A colleague of Benda, just to clarify the procedure, I'll give you that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u81	It's really specific. But I think we need to vote on the title first, we can't place a point without a name. First, we have to decide what colleague Michálek has proposed and then we can decide that the item with such a name is included in the meeting. We can't place an imaginary point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u82	Well, I understand you very well, Mr. Chairman. I was the first to ask my colleague Michálek if he agrees with my progress. That means, first, if we place the point, and then in what case, what is its content? My colleague Michálek didn't object, so I let him vote. And if you're proposing a counter-proposal that we're going to specify the procedure first, if that's the will of my colleague Michálek, because I don't think you can replace him, colleague Benda. So that's what I think we can do. If it is the will of my colleague Michálek that we will first specify the name. Okay, so my colleague Michálek will specify the name.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u83	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have therefore studied the Rules of Procedure in detail. I think that is a question that is a little on the verge that it is not explicitly mentioned, so that the vote is put to the vote in that order on the proposal itself, if the per analogy applies to the voting provisions. And I'd prefer the logic of the matter this way after we've discussed it, the recommendation that Mr. Benda has made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u84	Okay. In that case, we will vote - please specify the option that we will now vote, Mr President, so that everyone can hear how that point will sound according to your option. It's a counterproposal vote, we all understand that. So it is a vote on the proposal of Mr Hájek in the version of the counterproposal of Mr Michálek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u85	So, if I am not mistaken, correct me, Mr President, then Mr Hájek suggested the text "abuse of the 14th meeting by the absence of Members..." and now there was a list. Is that so?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u86	No, please. So first, my colleague Hájek will fully specify the name, and you will make the choice that we will vote on. [[Laughing in plenary]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u87	I'm sorry, I don't think my colleague Michálek listened to me. I actually read it, quote it, and I'll do it again. So the title of this point is: The frustration of the 14th extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies convened in the case of novices caused by the absence of a part of the ODS Party Members, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u88	Okay, okay. Now, your option, my colleague, will be to vote on the counterproposal first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u89	The statement reads: "The frustration of the 14th extraordinary meeting" and then has the second part, which is an evaluation, which begins with the words "caused by absence." So I suggested under § 72 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure in order to vote separately on these two parts. So I think we should proceed to the fact that it will be a separate vote now that we decide whether or not there will be a separate vote. If there is a separate vote, then there will be a separate vote on the two parts and then on the whole, and if this way of adjusting that point doesn't pass, then I have put forward a motion for release, the part that begins with the words 'caused by absence'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u90	So.... [[Laughter and applause from the right side of the courtroom]] Well, you didn't make it easy for me, because in that case, we have to - that's why I suggested the original procedure, because we're going to place a point, and then we're going to have fun about what range it's going to be. [[Laughing in the courtroom]] Because it was primarily about thwarting the meeting, that's reality. So now we will vote that... [[Club presidents report for the floor.]] I know you have priority rights, but let me give you my word right now. We must therefore say that first, the variant of Mr Michálek, who is the narrowest. Yes? So it will be gradually added. That's my policy, which I suggest. Mr. ODS Chairman's priority right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u91	I respect that the House can decide anything. It's okay for a government majority to suggest that it's now 9.38 and vote for it. But I just want to remind Mr Hájek that there has been no interruption of the meeting. Meeting adjourned. If we interrupt the 13th meeting tomorrow, is it ruined? Check out the website psp.cz, which is written at the 14th meeting: opening 9.00, then there is the screen recording 9.07 interrupted. It's not ruined. That means we can't vote on something that hasn't happened and say it's a fact. It's 11.51. So we can vote it's 10.51, but it doesn't make any sense. The meeting is simply interrupted by the official pages of the Chamber of Deputies. If it's thwarted, it's supposed to be terminated, it's supposed to be declared, and then I understand it, and we can evaluate, vote what happened. But the meeting is just adjourned. The only way out of this is so that we do not have 15 votes, that Mr Hájek will come, he will say, "I am withdrawing my proposal," and we can continue. If we don't, we're gonna argue here for about 69 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u92	No, I understand. Now with priority right, Mr.Faltýnek, then colleague Bělobrádek, then colleague Michálek. I know you're gonna decide this thing by your vote. If you'd let me vote in a certain order, one or the other, you could have expressed your will. If anyone thinks she's been thwarted or undone. I don't think she's ruined. But that's my will, and I can't do anything but give my colleague Faltýnek a word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u93	Good noon. Unfortunately, I am not such an expert on the Rules of Procedure as my colleague, President Michálek. However, I feel emotionally, I apologize for the fact that Mr Hájek here has made a proposal and that the proposal, whatever it is, should be voted on. And my colleague Michálek is adjusting the proposal, these are the new proposals. Those are the new designs. So, please, let us vote on Mr Hájek's proposal as he was loaded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u94	So, I know you're applying, but I have to follow the original order. Now, colleague Bělobrádek, he gives up his word. My colleague Michálek, he doesn't give up his word, then Mr Bartošek. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u95	So let me just remind you that according to § 72 para. 5 the House may decide to vote separately on the various parts of the proposal. So study it, Mr. Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u96	Please, Mr President, do not address the other Members directly. Address them through the President. If we want to teach someone here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u97	I am sorry, through Mr President. It was, of course, the paraphrase of our Prime Minister, who very, very much likes to use this phrase: "So study it." I left out the "boys" part for obvious reasons. [[Laughter and applause in the Pirates' desks.]] So I wanted to support Mr President in this proposal for a procedure that we would have voted on so that we would have gone from the narrowest part, or the part where the 14th meeting was thwarted, and then the second part would have voted separately. And I think that if we voted this way, as Mr President suggests, it would be okay and acceptable to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u98	Okay. A colleague of Bartošek, then a colleague of Stanjura. [[Member Bartošek gives up his word.]] No, it's okay, it's okay. In that case, Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u99	I would like to make it clear whether President Faltýnek's truthful statement is that I am not addressing him, just stating that we can vote on anything at all. I don't think so. Therefore, I would ask that the Vice-President consult the President and the Head of the House on legislation if we can vote on thwarting a meeting that has not been thwarted. It seems to me - I don't know how to put it now, to use a decent word on the microphone and for the log. Looks to me... "Also suspicious" is what they say. Mr Hájek from our region will understand what I mean. Just twisting the facts. And can the majority also twist the reality by voting? And will it be a resolution and we will discuss a point that does not correspond to the truth? Otherwise, the procedure is, of course, correct if Mr Hájek's proposal had "interruption of the 14th meeting" rather than "abort" in it. Then it's the right procedure, and it would describe the reality that happened from 9:00 to 9:07. I'm just reminding you that the first part of this meeting took seven minutes, so we're debating the title of that point for about 17 minutes. And then there would be the procedural proposal that Vice-President Filip wants to apply, and I think that the procedure is correct. But I'd like to know first if I can come and suggest a complete outrage, and the interpretation is that it can be voted on. So I wonder, and I'm sure other colleagues will be interested, before we vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u100	If you do not propose my appeal to the proceedings, I will use my President's right to vote more quickly from a procedural point of view than to question whether this is a voteable proposal. I can declare him unvoting, the petitioner will object to the President's procedure, I would have to have the President's procedure voted. I have so far taken advantage of the fact that my colleague Hájek's proposal was an amendment to Mr Michálek, and I will leave him to vote from the narrowest and then we will agree whether it is possible or not. If this isn't the case, if you don't object to the President's procedure, I'm going to have it voted. Please. Now, therefore, the proposal of Mr Hájek in the narrowest variant according to President Michálek. I'll sign you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your I.D. cards, and I'll let you vote on the version of the thwart. [[The votes from the diaper request that the proposal be read.]] Read. In that case, Mr Michálek must read the narrowest version once more. I don't have it in writing. Don't be mad at me, I have to give the plaintiff the floor. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u101	If I remember correctly, the first part was "abort of holding the 14th extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-31-ps2017-013-07-000-000.u102	That's the narrowest option. Please. We will now vote on this. I've started the vote on order 169 and I'm asking who's in favour. [[Restlessness in the Chamber]] Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 169: 156 for 52, versus 37. The motion was not accepted. So we can't, because even the narrowest didn't pass, the point isn't included, so it can't even be included in the extended version. We understand each other well. Does no one object to the President's procedure? [[Unique screams and faint applause.]] Thank you. We have dealt with the draft agenda of the meeting and can therefore continue according to the agenda of the meeting. As a first point, it's a fiscal compact. Before I begin it, I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and this is Mr Holomčík from 14.30 to the end of the day... [[Unintelligible comments from the diaper.]] Excuse me, fellow Skopeček, yes, I'm sorry, my bad, I'm sorry. Then Mr Špičák apologizes for the afternoon meeting. [[12.00 hours]] Now, excuse me, before we begin the item on the Government proposal concerning the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union, press 97, we must vote on transferring this item to the next meeting. It's a valid proposal. I've started voting number 170, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 170, from 157 in favour of 57, against 30. The motion was not accepted. So we will now discuss item number
