ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u1	5. Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 /German press 287/ - second reading I'll read one apology. Mrs Olga Richterová apologises between 14.30 and 14.50 on account of negotiations. On behalf of the Government, the motion submitted will be given by Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, whom I ask to take the floor. Well, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. The Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 was approved by the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament at first reading. The draft state budget was discussed in the relevant committees of the Chamber of Deputies. Allow me to thank all the gesture committees for discussing the various chapters of the state budget and, in particular, the Budget Committee for the comprehensive discussion and processing of documents for second reading. I assume that amendments to the draft state budget will be tabled at today's meeting. In this context, I would like to point out that the General Treasury chapter has a budget of more than 156 billion. CZK contained in tens of items. I would like to point out in advance that any amendment relating to the chapter of the General Treasury must necessarily include a specific specification of the items concerned, otherwise such a proposal is unvoting. I would also like to point out that the Budgetary Rules Act clearly defines the Act on the minimum amount of the government's budgetary reserve. This amounts to 0,3 per cent of the total expenditure of the State budget. I will then communicate my position on the proposed amendments at the third reading. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u3	That was Madam Secretary. The President of the Chamber of Deputies, in his decision, ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was served as Parliamentary Press 287/2 and 3. At the same time, House Document No 1784, which contains information on which of the amendments tabled was not adopted by the Committee on Budgets, was delivered to this point. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Miroslava Vostrá, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the preparation for the second reading of the State budget for 2019 was addressed by the Budget Committee at its meeting on 28 November 2018 and adopted two resolutions on which I would now introduce you. So the number of resolution 190 of the budget committee of the 16th meeting of 28 November 2018 on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019, the House print 287, and the Government draft of the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2019, second reading: Following the opening words of the Minister of Finance and the report and following the debate of the Committee on Budgets I. Notes that all the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies discussed the chapters and headings of the state budget, including subsidies to non-profit and similar organisations in the scope of the chapters under resolution 365 of 24 October of this year, and adopted their resolutions on them, with the exception of the Committee on Petitions, which discussed Chapter 304, the Office of the Government and did not adopt the resolution on the chapter; the Committee on Control, which discussed Chapter 371 of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements, and did not adopt the resolution on the Chapter; the Committee on Economic Affairs...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u5	Let me ask you to calm down so that the chairman of the committee can express herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u6	Yes, thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I am now introducing you to committees that have not discussed or adopted any resolutions on the chapters under discussion, and I think it is quite appropriate for you to be informed. And I'm sorry, I'm not vocal enough to scream the swarm around here. So I apologize for stopping and continuing. So the Economic Committee, which discussed Chapter 349 of the Energy Regulatory Authority, did not adopt the resolution on the chapter; the Security Committee, which interrupted the discussion of subsidies to non-profit-making and similar organisations within the scope of Chapter 314 of the Ministry of Interior and 336 of Justice; the Health Committee, which did not discuss grants to non-profit-making and similar organisations within the scope of Chapter 335 of the Ministry of Health. II. It recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2019, the House press 287, and the Government Draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 and the Government Draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 under the House Press 287, as amended by the approved amendments, according to Annexes 1 and 2 to this resolution. III. It empowers the Chair of the Committee - the rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. If you do not object to anything, the annexes number 1 and Annex number 2 are included in this resolution, as agreed in the Committee on Budgets and as we recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to be adopted. If there are no objections, I would not be able to load these attachments here. And then the Committee on Budgets adopted another resolution, namely resolution 191, which you also have in writing and in which -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u7	So I'm gonna ask you to calm down again. I think it's really fair for a woman to talk here because the lady said she was indisposed, so please, let's be calm so she can express herself. Madam President Vostrá, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So resolution 191: I. It recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following accompanying resolutions: The Chamber of Deputies recommends to the Government that: (a) take into account the specific status of the staff of the National Labour Security Office and maintain an increase in salaries for that employer during the future period; (b) take into account the specific status of members of the Labour Market Security Information Service and maintain appropriate wage growth in that service for the following period after 2019; (c) take into account the specific status of members of the General Inspection of the Security Councils on the labour market and maintain appropriate wage increases in this inspection for the following period after 2019; (d) take into account the specifics of the occupations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' staff and its constituent parts in the labour market and ensure an adequate increase in salaries. II. It empowers the Chair of the Committee - the rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. These are the two resolutions adopted by the Committee on Budgets, which I had the honour of bringing to you here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u9	I thank the President of the Committee on Budgets and the rapporteur, Miroslava Vostrá, and I am opening up a detailed debate on the proposal. I have 22 Members registered for the debate at this time, so let us begin. I now call on Mrs Věra Kovářová to speak and Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will prepare himself. So, madam, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you the proposals for amendments which we are proposing as a Club of Mayors and Independents. The first priority is an increase in the salaries of teachers by 5 billion. 350 miles. koruna, for the following reasons. [[14.40 hours]] We consider education to be a very important sector that can ensure the competitiveness of our Republic. As my colleague Farský likes to say, education is a highway to prosperity and it is an investment in the future. In June 2018, the Government of the Czech Republic committed itself in its programming declaration to wage growth in order to reach at least 150 per cent of the amount for 2017. Thus, the calculation basis for the minimum salary of teachers in 2021 is to be the average salary of teachers in 2017 of CZK 31,632. The average salary of teachers should be around 47 thousand in 2021. For 2019, the Ministry of Education plans to increase salaries by 15 percent, i.e. to less than 39 thousand. Crowns. The government was also called upon to increase the salaries of teachers by a resolution approved during the approval of the State budget for 2018, on the basis of which the salary was to be increased by 15 % from 1. 9. 2018. It should also be noted that the average gross wage in the Czech Republic was CZK 29,504 in 2017, to CZK 30 6. 2018 increased to 31 851 kroner. The average salary of teachers was CZK 33 368. According to the forecast for growth of the average gross wage, it will reach CZK 37,210 in 2021. It follows from the above that educators will reach only 126 per cent of the average gross wage in 2021. On the basis of the above reasons, it is proposed to increase the expenditure of the budget chapter of the Ministry of Education in the field of regional education by 5.35 billion. Crowns. This amount will be intended solely for the growth of the salaries of educators. On the basis of this amendment, the average salary of the teacher in 2019 should be increased to approximately CZK 40,700, i.e. to less than 129 percent of their average salary in 2017. The proposed amount, including contributions, equals the average salary of teachers in 2019 to less than 130 per cent of their average salary in 2017. This change will ensure the continuity of the growth of pedagogues' salaries in the following years so that their amount in 2021 is at 150 per cent of their salary in 2017. Therefore, the reason for submitting our proposal is to ensure that a number of educators remain in the schools, that we ensure quality teaching in schools. Allow me to present to you another amendment concerning an increase in funding to increase the capacity of kindergarten schools. We already tabled this amendment last year, which increased the grant title to kindergarten by 300 miles. Crowns. The reasons why we are doing this year are as follows. We know that construction projects for the construction of kindergarten schools are prepared with a building permit and an amount of about 4 billion. Crowns. We also know that, at the last call concerning kindergartens, applications for 420 miles were met. CZK, but the applications were worth 2 billion. Crowns. For this reason, we are once again increasing the Ministry of Education chapter in the indicator of regional education expenditure and directly managed organisations under expenditure under the EDS/SMVS programme financing information system by a total amount of 300 million. CZK, which is used solely to strengthen programme 133310 called Development of teaching capacities of kindergartens and primary schools set up by local authorities. If you want to look, I will not read here in detail where we are coming from, so it is possible to look into the system for both the first amendment and the others. There is exactly how we move from individual chapters to this chapter in the case of the Ministry of Education. Our next priority is the restoration of cultural monuments. We tabled two amendments. The first adds to the indicator the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments of the public service of museums, and in this the programs for the preservation and restoration of cultural monuments. In grant schemes for the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments, the total amount of 263 million, i.e. total to 1 billion. I would like to point out that those who are owners of cultural monuments outside the state of which there are 40,000 may be requested in these programmes. I also remind you that these monuments cannot be drawn from European funds. That is why we think it is necessary to increase this grant title to at least 1 billion. CZK, so that it would be if this amendment were to be passed in order to process applications at the Ministry of Culture. I tabled this amendment in the school committee, unfortunately it did not pass. However, the Minister mentioned, when asked what his priorities were, so he mentioned the four priorities he had added to the Minister of Finance. And it was also said that his priority was to add 150 miles to these programmes. CZK, and for this reason we have prepared an amendment adding 150 million to the conservation programmes. CZK, so that it is acceptable to the Minister of Culture. We must also not forget local communication, which is another amendment proposing to increase the expenditure of Chapter 317 of the Ministry for Regional Development in the indicator Support for Regional Development and Tourism in the programme Support for Regional Development 2019 plus in the subsidy title Support for Rural Reconstruction and Development in the Subtitle and Support for Local Communications by 160 million. CZK, which concerns municipalities of up to 3,000 inhabitants. And in the same, virtually. The second title, which concerns the support of municipalities from three thousand to ten thousand inhabitants just for the renewal of local roads, increases the amount by 150 million. Crowns. So a total of 310 miles. CZK, so that in each program there is an amount of 350 million. Crowns. The reason why we are submitting this amendment is as follows. On the basis of mapping, it was found that in municipalities up to 250 inhabitants, an amount of 18 billion is needed for local communication. Crowns. That is why we believe that it is precisely these subsidy titles that need to be increased, because municipalities do not have enough funds to really fix communication. Thus, if there is a need for 18 billion in municipalities up to 250 inhabitants. CZK, so I ask how much is needed in other municipalities, and I think it would certainly help the municipalities. In case you're asking the mayors, they say that grant titles for local communications are the right way, because really repairing local communications will burden very much the budgets of municipalities of any size. [[14.50 hours]] Another amendment, which I would like to talk about, is so called. lunches for schools, which is Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education. We propose to increase the call for NNOs to support school meals for primary school pupils, these are called. school lunches. We propose that the amount be 30 miles. increased by 10 million, due to the fact that the amount has not been increased in recent years. At present, nearly 10,000 children have been involved in the project, but estimates suggest that the number of children unable to attend school meals is much higher and could involve up to 100,000 children. That is why I think it is good to increase this amount by at least 10 miles according to our proposal. Crowns. Of course, we have not forgotten the firefighters either, and we propose to increase the Ministry of the Interior in the indicator of the costs of the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic by 300 million. CZK for investment expenditure, due to the fact that it concerns investment issues such as the reconstruction of roofs, doors, garages, floors, etc., respectively. it is a smaller investment expenditure that has been forgotten, and it concerns buildings and facilities used for training and training units of voluntary firefighters associations of municipalities, and, of course, can also serve in the event of some natural disaster precisely for crisis crews of cities and municipalities. Then we have two minor amendments. One concerns the chapter of the Ministry of Culture and we propose to increase the expenditure of this chapter by an amount of 3 million. CZK, which will be used for a dedicated grant for the rehabilitation of the Jan Palach Memorial in front of the new building of the National Museum. I think it would be good to support this amendment in the rehabilitation of the Jan Palach Memorial in front of the new National Museum building, i.e. the former Federal Assembly. The memorial was designed in 1969 by architect Karel Prager and was to consist of a steel pylon, almost 30 meters high, and granite sculptures Flame of the sculptor Miloslav Chlupáč. And just for that pylon and the location of the stone board should be determined by these funds. You will also find details in the system in the amendment. Furthermore, allow me to present my amendment and the proposal to which Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík also joined, which concerns expenditure which we would like to reduce, in the chapter of the General Treasury in a specific indicator of social expenditure, compensation, non-profit and similar organisations and under the heading of the Czech Union of Fighters for Freedom, in two variants. Reduce expenses by either six million. 300 crowns, respectively. The second option says that the amount would be reduced by CZK 3,150,000, and at the same time we would move these funds into the Czechoslovak community of legionary, namely the repair and project of Larischův's villa, which is linked to the tragic fate of the inhabitants of the nearby village of Ležáky. Czech patriots were imprisoned in the underground areas of the villa in connection with the assassination of Heydrich. Nearby the villa was established a provisional execution site, where 194 lives of innocent people and patriots were extinguished by the hands of the invaders. That is why we think it would be a good symbol, just to move these funds to an organization that really cares about promoting the ideals and values of this organization regarding our history. Finally, let me present an amendment concerning the chapter of the Ministry of Transport and propose to increase the specific subsidy indicator for the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure in order to increase funding under the subsidy title for financing the second and third-class roads owned by regions by 4 billion. Kč. The reason why we have prepared this amendment is as follows. We note that the Prime Minister has promised the regions this amount to repair the roads of the second and third classes, but he also added with one breath that this money is not in the budget. Given that we believe that according to the last government resolution, when she decided to allocate an amount of 2.8 billion. CZK on the roads of the second and third classes, when this decision was made in April and when it is then difficult to compete with projects to repair these roads, and given the state in which these communications are located, I think it would be good to include this amount in the state budget for 2019, and we tried to find these funds in individual chapters so that the Ministry of Transport, respectively. The State Fund for Transport Infrastructure had at its disposal. Ladies and gentlemen, in brief, our amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u11	That was Mrs Kovářová. And now I call on Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to comment and to prepare Mrs Golasowská. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I believe I will be very economical against my colleague and I will not keep you more than three, five minutes tops. As rapporteur for the chapter of the budget for 2019 of Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior, I have studied this material very carefully and I have to say that I found in it a simple comparison with the appropriations from 2018 that there is about 1 billion missing in the budget. CZK for operation and investment. The other items are as good as okay. It's not a problem. Of course, we can say that we thank the fact that the law was fulfilled in relation to the fact that funds were delivered in a volume of 6 per cent per so-called. risky, the law tells special bonuses to members of the security forces, which increased by more than 1.5 billion in that chapter. CZK, so we are certainly very well aware of this including the fact that there has been, albeit a small but at least 2% increase, or there will be an increase in basic tariffs for members of the security forces. As I mentioned, around a billion crowns are missing from the budget chapter for operation and investment, and I see this as a problem that could threaten some specific activities of police and other security forces, namely the Fire Rescue Corps. [[15.00 hours]] And I'll tell you one thing with the fire department and one thing with the Police of the Czech Republic, where I would like us to find the funds and raise this budget. Firefighters build all over the Republic or modernize their exit stations. Most of those stations or most of those investments were planned in 2014 and 2015, when there was still an economic crisis, and so the calculations for the amounts of money that will need to be delivered to the construction of these firehouses were consistent with that in 2014, respectively 2015. We are now at a stage where we are competing and are unable to compete with suppliers because prices have increased significantly. But the important thing for us here is that, in 2016, or 2017, these projects were co-financed by European, European Union money, in a volume of 85 percent. I'm going to try to put it as a basic analogy as to what it might look like. Imagine the construction of a new firehouse that would cost CZK 100 million, CZK 85 million would be supplied by the European Union and would add 15 million to the Ministry of the Interior's budget. But there's been an increase, and it needs to be said that we're not gonna build that armory again for 100, but maybe 115 or 120. And now we need to find the funds, the 15 or 20 million, so that we can find the firehouse that we need and which is under construction in 2019, or some of the weapons in 2020, but we can find the money somewhere else, or we lose 85 percent of the subsidy we have from the European Union, that is, we would lose the 85 million if we didn't make it happen. So, of course, by simple logic and common sense, we will understand that it is worth paying 10, 12, 15 million, of course, that every station is about something other than losing the 85 percent we already have approved from the European Union. So I would like to propose that in Chapter 314, the Ministry of the Interior, a specific figure, an indicator of the costs of the Fire Rescue Corps, increase by CZK 70 million, namely under heading 612, this is precisely the acquisition of long-term tangible assets, namely for the construction or completion of new firemen's arsenals. The second area I would like to address is the matter that I am dealing with, and I have dealt with it with some of your colleagues, who are not here anymore, since 2015, and this is the ballistic protection of police officers. We have several police officers who, provenly, even if we don't admit it, died because they weren't ballistically protected, and if they had ballistic protection, they could just survive. I consider ballistic protection in the current security situation in the Czech Republic, but also development in Europe as a basic work tool. Just as a bricklayer doesn't walk on a construction site without a protective helmet or work boot, because it would be a violation of work discipline, so a police officer shouldn't walk without ballistic protection of Class III A, which would protect him from short firearms or stab wounds. Even the situation in the world is such that - and I see a fellow rescue officer here - where ballistic protection is already being faked in Holland by people who work in the medical rescue service. But that's where the security situation is even worse than ours. And I would like us to continue the trend that we started in 2015 and that led us to push Police presidium to issue a police President's order number 172/2017, which processes the concept of ballistic protection of police officers by 2020 and 2022 respectively. So I would like to suggest that in Chapter 314 the Ministry of the Interior, the specific indicator of expenditure of the Police of the Czech Republic increased by CZK 30 million in item 513 to purchase material, and that again planned to purchase ballistic protection of police officers. I would like to say that this item, compared to 2018, is the one planned for 2019, humiliated not to say cut, humiliated by CZK 137 million, CZK 137 million for the purchase of material. I can understand that the police won't be driving brand-new cars and so on, but ballistic protection is the priority that we should all have because life and health are the most important thing we need to protect. And since I said I'd only talk for five minutes, and my colleague shows me that it's been more than six minutes, I'll speed it up. You will find everything in House document 1787 and thank you for your support. Seventy million for firefighters, thirty million for ballistic protection of police officers, and I would like to move it from the chapter of the Ministry of Environment, a specific indicator of climate and air protection. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u13	So it was Mr Ondráček and I will now ask for the speech of Mrs Golasowská and Mr Martin Baxa will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor. I'll read one more apology, so quickly, he's your party colleague, anyway. So Mr Marek Výborný apologies from 15 o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, let me present to you some amendments relating to the budget in Chapter 313, which is a chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. A year has met, we are again faced with the approval of the budget, and I am very concerned that there is no funding for social services again. There is a shortage of around one billion crowns, which is really very rusty. In doing so, we have to say that social workers' salaries are less than average wages, and they are people who take care of clients in residential facilities, clients with Alzheimer's, dementia, children in staff, clients in shelters and the like. Sometimes we also hear voices that we can finance the lack of finance over the course of the year, but that is a really unfortunate solution. We have already experienced this solution in 2012, when employees were actually discharged at the beginning of the year and services really drove in a very economical mode. So I don't recommend this option very much. This means that in the draft state budget, only 15.5 billion are proposed for social services for 2019, which, as I say, is very inadequate. We have to say that to 1. 1. 2019 will increase salaries because the minimum wage will rise, but we will also record a failure to finance some social prevention services from European sources. So the services that are now drawing funding from European sources will not have financial coverage next year. Therefore, there is also a risk of staff leaving social services. And we know that we are not getting this staff now, because for example, some large shops offer wages a few thousand more than social service wages. So I propose an increase in the budget of the specific indicator of Chapter 313 Non-investment non-payment transfers by an amount of 800 million and a reduction in the expenditure of Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the specific indicator of unemployment support by an amount of 400 million and a further reduction in the expenditure of Chapter 313 in the specific indicator of active employment policy by an amount of 400 million. This amendment can be found in the system under the number of House document 1880. My second amendment concerns an increase in the budget of 200 million for social work in municipalities. For illustration purposes, in 2017 and 2018, the allocated amount for the performance of social work in municipalities was 400 million and for 2019 this amount was reduced by 50 percent, i.e. by 200 million. So the municipalities have again recruited workers to perform social work, which they will probably have to release now, because the reduction in finance by 50 percent is really a big notch. [[15.10 hours]] So, once again, I propose that the expenditure of Chapter 313 be increased in a specific indicator of non-investment non-payment transfers by an amount of 200 million, for the performance of social work in municipalities. At the same time, I propose a reduction in the expenditure of the chapter in the specific indicator of unemployment aid by an amount of 200 million. And I also have two amendments on the increase in funding for the drug policy programme by 64 million, and a reduction in the expenditure of the chapter on sickness insurance benefits by 64 million. We know that many counties are struggling with the fact that we do not have low-threshold contact centre programs, we do not have therapeutic communities. And we also lack funding for prevention in terms of prevention of drug policy in schools. You can find this amendment in the system under the number of House document 1843. My last amendment also concerns the drug policy programme, an increase of 64 million, but is taken from active employment policy, thereby reducing the expenditure of this chapter in active employment policy by 64 million. You can find this amendment under the number of House document 1845. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u15	That was Mrs Golasowská and now two factual points. So, Mr. MP Milan Brázdil. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u16	Thank you for the floor. I have no amendment. However, I would like to respond to colleague Kovářová and colleague Ondráček. He feels pretty logical that the integrated rescue system is for people and he's going to save them, and money, why not? But then there's the other file, the third file, the main file. And in my opinion, the most important. Life comes first. Then it's about the property. And this file, no one can add it because she's not state. It's the smallest number of people, 8,500, with the largest number of trips, with the largest activity and these people we just can't add because they're not state. We don't have an ambulance state, she's regional. So I'm sorry. I'd love to help the most important file, too, and I appreciate the firemen and the cops, but the ambulance is somewhere in the seclusion. I'm sorry. I wanted to technically point that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u17	Thank you and now Mrs Kovářová wanted to add a factual remark to her previous speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u18	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I apologize for distracting you with factual remarks. However, I forgot to read and sign up for the number of amendments in my application. So let me do this. Allow me to sign up for the 1920 amendment - it concerns the salaries of teachers. Further to Amendment 1790 on local communication. Further to Amendment 1747 the capacity of kindergarten and primary schools, 1748 cultural monument variant 1, 1749 cultural monuments 2. Then 1752 lunches for primary schools or children, 1751 - related to the monuments of Jan Palach, 1578 - related to Larischův's villa - related to roads II. and III. classes. Furthermore, 1750 - concerns the salaries of firefighters and the number 1920 - concerns the salaries of teachers. So thank you for your indulgence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u19	We will now return to the general debate. So I will now ask Mr Martin Baxa to speak and Mr Zdeněk Podal will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u20	Good afternoon, Mr President, dear colleagues. Allow me to present here my amendment, which I tabled on the draft State budget for 2019. So I would like to sign up for the House document under number 1799 right away at the outset. This is an amendment concerning the budget of the Ministry of Culture of the Czech Republic. The content of this amendment is an increase in the cost block of cultural services supporting live art by a total of 300 million. The sum should be divided into two amounts. One hundred and sixty million of this sum of CZK 300 million should be directed to the programme of state support for professional theatres and permanent professional symphony orchestras and choirs, which is currently in the budget of the Ministry of Culture, respectively in the draft budget, designed again only for the sum of 160 million. Crowns. And then a total of 140 miles. The koruna should be directed to an expenditure circuit of cultural activity, i.e. what is called simplified support for living culture. Overall, the new amount of the cultural service expenditure block should be the promotion of live art in the amount of CZK 1 042 862 430. So many formalities to begin with, and let me now make the justification for this proposal perhaps somewhat in a broader context. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like, say, in some concentrated form, to get acquainted with the first part of my amendment, which leads to an increase in the programme for professional theatres and permanent professional orchestras, I would definitely recommend an interview with the director of the National Theatre in Brno by Mr.Martin Glaser, who is quite distinctively named At full speed we came across a ceiling. It describes a number of links between the financing of public cultural institutions not established by the State in a situation of low support in the field of culture from the state budget. If we're going to talk about increasing the grant program to professional theatres and permanent professional symphony orchestras, I'm afraid I have to say that we've actually been singing the same song for several years if I had said it this way. In this subsidy programme, the sum of 160 million is still the same in recent years. Crowns. It was announced somewhat vaguely by former Minister of Culture Daniel Herman that this amount would be increased. Finally, if I am not mistaken, this proposal was not even tabled. The increase of this program was promised by the Minister of Culture in the first government of Andrej Babiš, Dr. Ilja Šmíd. I don't know what the fate of his proposal was. And unfortunately, the increase in the subsidy programme did not appear in the draft budget of the Ministry of Culture prepared by Minister Staněk. I may have said that the arguments are still the same, but I consider it important to repeat them again. The financial evaluation of workers in culture is still very low, albeit improving in recent years, and I welcome that. Because it is important that the state, through an amendment to the Government's payroll regulation, also increases the salaries of employees in culture. They are very often highly qualified people, people who cover a wide range of professional jobs, and it is not long-standing for these people to take salaries that are not even higher than the average wage in the Czech Republic. [[15.20 hours]] But what happened through the several increases in salary regulations is that the State covered the regulation with its funds. That is, by the way, the often publicly presented increase in funds in the Ministry of Culture's budget, or a significant part of the 1.4 billion. But as for the contribution organisations established in the field of culture of the region, towns, municipalities, it remained entirely on them. The state simply sent a message through the Ministry of Culture and through an amount of 160 miles. Crowns, municipalities and cities: we want you to raise your employees' salaries, but find the money where you want it. Usually, this will turn to the argument that taxes are increasing and that municipalities have been given more through the so-called RUD. I consider the argument unfair. And once again, I am stressing what I have unfortunately said a year ago, even now in the first reading of the bill on the state budget. There may gradually be a situation where some founders continue to refuse to finance these increased funds, these new pay obligations imposed on them by the State. Let me just remind you that in our city's budget in two years this salary increase meant a new 50 million. CZK in the field of culture, which are directed exclusively to increase the salaries of employees of these institutions. And what I'm saying is that this increase actually only goes to wages. The operating costs of these other organisations remain in the air and, as I consider important, cultural institutions are disadvantaged, which do not even have the certainty of a permanent contribution from their founders. The grant programme of state support for professional theatres, permanent professional symphony orchestras and choirs was not established at the very beginning to compensate the regions, towns and municipalities for any expenses associated with the area of culture. I want this argument to be heard here. At present, this subsidy program is not actually fulfilling much more. It's just some kind of symbolic contribution from the state to these cultural institutions, which, given that it doesn't change at all, neither compensates for wage demands nor new operating expenses, and the state actually says regional culture: finance yourself all you want, and we don't care about their fate. Some, say, evergreens of public debate in the field of culture for years, are multi-source funding, the law on public institutions in culture. Nothing like this has ever happened before. This means that, in my view, the long-term unsustainable situation lasts and the draft state budget in this form, which means that it remains the 160 million. The crown, it's still the same. I would like to make one point in this regard, to say one more argument, which is not always mentioned in these discussions. The fact that cultural institutions should be established and operated not only in the cultural community, but I suppose, in all the cities and municipalities where culture matters, is obvious in itself. Culture has a key role to play in culture, a key role in the development of personality, after all, the verb cultivare itself, to develop, is contained in it, in education, in the cultivation of values that are important to our society. In addition, the role of culture is also important in the field of education, in order for the young generation to gain the opportunity to acquire, through art and culture, values that are important to our society. But I would also like to point out, after all, that the Minister of Finance is here on my right, that in Western Europe, culture is no longer seen as an area that consumes public money, but as a fully functional and legitimate part of the economy. The figures published by the Statistical Office clearly show that, compared to public spending in culture, the share of gross domestic product of culture in the Czech Republic is about 1,3% and gross added value is more than 2 percent. Culture, ladies and gentlemen, is also a really important part of the economy. And it is not only in the field of tourism, but also in areas such as creative industries, such as services linked to culture and others. After all, I can give one particular example from my city, the city of Pilsen, which was the European Capital of Culture in 2015. The State contributed 100 million to this project. CZK, which, by the way, was historically the lowest sum ever contributed by the state to the city in its territory, which carried this prestigious title. On the basis of the evaluation of this project, the evaluation, we have calculated that at least more than 160 miles have been paid on taxes in connection with this project. Crowns. Or if I say it in such a purely pragmatic way, economically in numbers, simply what the state has put into a specific project Pilsen - the European Capital of Culture 2015, has not only returned but has also taken an interest. Therefore, long-term underfinancing of public administration in the field of culture is not only paid by leaving a burden on the founders, by the fact that cultural actors are exposed to permanent financial shortages, that people work for below-average wages, but also by not using the economic potential that is hidden in the field of culture and which, in my view, the Czech Republic is still unable to make good use of. And when I say this, ladies and gentlemen, in a purely pragmatic way, I wanted to say brutally - a colleague of Skopeček here in his speech yesterday on one of the economic points, he said that the annual increase in revenue to the state budget was 150 billion. Crowns. I hope I've memorized this amount correctly. In fact, I just want to sigh that I don't understand it at all, and it is incomprehensible to me if the government of Andrej Babiš says that culture, and so it is in the government's programming statement, is one of the important priorities that at this time, at an unprecedented time of economic growth, it will find almost no crown to support the Ministry of Culture's expenditure outside the Ministry of Culture's organisation. I have already stressed this in my first reading speech, I will say it before the Minister of Finance and before the Minister of Culture again, yes, the increase in the budget of the Ministry of Culture in the absolute number exists quite large, it is more than 1 billion. CZK, but it is directed to state contribution organizations, operating and investment. In those sums relating to the expenditure of the Ministry of Culture on the outside, whether it concerns living culture, the promotion of professional art in regions or conservation care, it is minimal. These are the sums that are really very low on how huge the government's income is. And in context, I have already said this, I very much acknowledge that, at least in part, the promises relating to teacher salaries have been fulfilled, and where tens of billions of crowns have simply been found for this purpose. I do not want to speak here merely as a politician or a person who is long-term professionally associated with culture, whether at municipal, regional level or now as chair of a subcommittee on culture in the House. I want to speak here as a person who cares about Czech culture, what role the Czech culture played, plays and should play, in the context that Czech culture is also an important export commodity of the Czech Republic, that from this draft budget I see the Macesian behaviour of the state towards the Ministry of Culture or the area of public support for cultural activities. As far as I have been talking about only the part that concerned this subsidy programme to promote professional culture in the regions, I would also like to stress with the utmost urgency the second part of my amendment, which concerns the expenditure circuit of so-called cultural activities, where there is a sum of more than half a billion crowns for all the support of living art or art outside the cultural heritage in the territory of our state, which is mostly applied here through grant programmes. I think it's a very low sum that we expose cultural actors, organizers of cultural events, people who want to be active in culture themselves and whose works we in quotation marks highlight in quotation marks, we still consume such a permanent, long-term survival, which is often expressed by those unfortunate slogans about the fact that there is somewhere left for culture to end and that culture should actually earn money on itself and so on. In my opinion, we are being permanently deprived of this. Ladies and gentlemen, I considered it important to put forward this amendment precisely in the context that we perceive the values of culture in our society in a slightly different way from what is currently happening. Not only for the culture itself, but as if it is such an underbelly, which is important for the continued existence of our country, its spiritual dimension, as well as in terms of employment, education and so on. Finally, we cannot say over and over again that we care about culture, that we are proud of culture, if we simply do not do anything about it in real terms. And I am making this amendment because I believe that the draft budget for 2019, these calls presented in the government's programming declarations, are not being met, and I am trying to at least partially heal these flaws in the draft state budget in the field of culture. Thank you for your attention. I believe in support of my amendment, which is included in the House document under number 1799. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u21	That was Mr. Baxa. I will now ask Mr Zdeněk to speak and Mr Vít Kaňkovský will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, Members, I am referring to the parliamentary proposal, which is loaded into the system as House document 1889. It's my favorite thing. I've performed several times. It's bark again. I fear that the joy of the future will not be the only herpetologists who will find enough bugs instead of our forests, so I would like to continue. As a result of drought, all trees die, weakened plants are unable to naturally face insect pests, and Czech forests are exposed to the greatest disaster in history. At present, it is attacked by a spruce-eating icon of up to 20 million cubic metres of standing spruce vegetation. The only effective and effective measure is the timely and rapid rendering of the infected trees. This amendment strengthens the budget chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture in the forestry support indicator by CZK 2 billion from Chapter 315 of the Ministry of the Environment by 1 billion from the specific climate and air protection indicator. The indicator includes expenditure on the New Green Savings Programme, which is financed from the sale of emission allowances. Given that forests significantly help reduce greenhouse gases, I propose to move some of the resources to support forestry, namely CZK 1 billion from a specific indicator of other environmental activities. The indicator includes expenditure on the Rainbow programme, which increases the cost of solving the accumulation of precipitation water for the garden topping, for flushing the toilet, and unnecessary draining of public funds. The proposal includes the transfer of funds of CZK 3 million under budget chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture from a specific indicator of other data to the State policy of the Ministry of Inspection, Control, Research activity into a specific indicator of support for forestry. [[billions?]] The amendment also includes a detailed statement of reasons. I beg you all to support this proposal, it's all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u23	That was Mr. Podal. I will now ask Mr Vít Kaňkovský to speak and Mr Jiří Kobza will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u24	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. During the first reading of the state budget for 2019, I spoke here about comments concerning macroeconomic parameters, namely the level of deficit, but I also commented on some structural comments. I want to avoid this at this reading, and I would like to focus on the amendments that we have prepared in the second reading. I will start with the one that I have already presented on the Committee on Social Policy, and there has been quite a broad discussion about it. Finally, the vote was neutral, which means it was not approved. I am already following up on the speech by my colleague Pavla Golasowská, with whom we have presented these amendments precisely to the Committee on Social Policy and concern Chapter 313 of the MPSV and the problem that we want to address is the underfinancing of social services for 2019. As I mentioned here at first reading, the amount of CZK 17,2 billion was requested from the regions as well as from the providers during the processing of the draft state budget for 2019. Then, after discussions with the MPSV and the Ministry of Finance, there was some compromise. However, the amount in the draft state budget of CZK 15.52 billion is insufficient. And indeed, if we consider the individual requirements that are there, we lack the sum of CZK 800 million. I would briefly sum up where we came up with the 800 million crowns, but this is not an invention, neither my colleague Golasowská nor some other Members, who will be speaking on this subject today, but it is really a calculation of both regions and associations of providers. The fundamental problem is, on the one hand, the question of staff. We know that, in the area of social services, but similarly in the health sector, we are dealing with a lack of qualified personnel and, in particular, in social services, one of the main reasons is the low wages of workers in social services, despite the increases that have taken place in recent years. I appreciate the fact that, after relatively complex negotiations, the government finally agreed to an increase of 7 per cent from the originally proposed 5% tariff increase. However, the state budget is no longer counting on this increase. He was only counting on the 5 percent. So that's one part of the missing funds for social services. The second problem is that our support for certain areas from the European Structural Funds ends, and in the social field, this concerns, in particular, projects and social prevention programmes. There are around CZK 137 million missing, which, if not financed from national sources, is at risk of reducing some major projects in the context of social prevention. I think that I need not point out here that social prevention is a very important part of social services and that the negative consequences would be felt by all of us. Then there is a problem which is also not much to discuss, but which we will have to deal with not only in 2019 but also in the following years, and that is the reform of psychiatric care. It affects us both in the Ministry of Health's budget as well as in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and marginally in some other parts of the budgets. Here too, the support of some individual projects or some projects financed by the European Structural Funds ends, and we also need to find national resources here to ensure that the much-awaited and necessary reform of psychiatric care can continue and continue. So the sum of the sum, all of these reasons I was talking about, give the minimum amount to finance the sum of CZK 800 million. On the Social Policy Committee, we talked about where to take it. That's always the big problem. We have submitted three options to the committee, which were only in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I'm presenting the same here today at second reading. But since I have been discussing within other political clubs and we are really looking for a way to find the 800 million in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' budget for social services, I have prepared two other options that are partially sought in the budget of Chapter 313 of the MPSV and partly paid from other sources within the state budget. I firmly believe that, even in the course of the next meeting of the Committee on Budgets, and subsequently in the third reading, we will be able to face the problem of not financing social services. Perhaps I would mention one more thing that goes around in the galleys: let's try to leave it now, and if there's really a problem over the course of the year, we'll somehow finance it. I would ask very much not to take this step so that we do not rely on the financing of special social services during the year. It has also been said here, we experienced it in 2012, but we experienced it in some other years. It is a procedure that brings great uncertainty to providers, especially those smaller providers of social services. And if they can't guarantee their employees that they'll be able to use them all year round, then it's obvious that these employees will be leaving. Today in the labour market, they have opportunities to go, and a qualified social worker will apply very well in the labour market. So much for the first amendment, or a set of amendments. I hereby apply to him again. It is the number of House document 1091. [[15.40 hours]] I would also like to sign up for another amendment concerning the chapter of the Ministry of Health. It is a House document under the number 1092 and, in substance, concerns a very important issue, which is the financing of primary disease prevention. I don't want to talk about this for long, but the primary prevention of diseases is one of the painful places of Czech health policy. We are very focused on financing acute and chronic care, which is of course okay and is also expected from the inhabitants of the Czech Republic. But what will that accomplish? We will achieve that our citizens feel safe when it comes to caring for their health, and that, of course, is absolutely okay. Unfortunately, however, we are not able to improve the qualitative parameters of the health of the Czech population by this procedure. Since 1990, we have been able to extend life expectancy by more than eight years on average for both sexes. But as far as the qualitative parameter is concerned, which shows how we are healthy in the Czech population, and this is called. Life expectancy in health, so we've only advanced there for about a year and a half since 1990. So we're versus e.g. To the Nordic countries, which have been engaged in primary disease prevention for over 25 years, we have done almost nothing in this regard. This means that if we resign from primary prevention, and in the last things we are really in this area neither in terms of financial allocation nor in terms of the activities of the Ministry of Health nor of other institutions, if we do not go back and face it, we will not do anything about the qualitative health aspect of the Czech population. I understand that investing in primary prevention is a long run, but if we do not do so with great interest, we will never prepare our children for better health, better quality of their health in the middle and older age. So here I have prepared an amendment which increases the primary prevention programme by 20 miles. CZK and it is again proposed from which sources it will be financed. And the third amendment I would like to make is the number of House document 1094... [[Agreement with Mr Vostra]] Thank you for the correction to the rapporteur, and I will then set the figures for the House documents straight. Thank you very much. So this is what I want to apply to the House document under number 1904, as rightly pointed out by the rapporteur, who is concerned with the financing of palliative and hospice care. The Ministry of Health has set up a program for reproduction of property, which deals with the promotion of palliative and hospice care. It is a programme of 13510, however, the allocation in this programme is currently only proposed for 2019 at 12,5 million. Crowns. This amount is clearly very insufficient. I am not ambitious that we are able to find a high amount at the moment to support palliative and hospice care, i.e. for investment expenditure, but only to realise how important this area is, I propose an increase of 10 million in this programme. Crowns. Again there is optionally proposed funding from different types of sources. So, to conclude, and I thank the rapporteur once again for the warning, I am signing up for three amendments. The first one concerning the financing of social services is the number of House document 1901, which is the correct number. The second, which relates to the chapter of the Ministry of Health and is to finance primary prevention, is under number 1902. And the third, concerning the financing of hospice and palliative care, is under the number of House document 1904. Thank you for your attention and I believe also for your support at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u25	Thank you and I will now ask for Mr Jiří Kobza's speech and Mr Radovan Vích will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make amendments to the SPD on Chapter 306 Foreign Affairs. This is specifically a chapter in development aid and transformation cooperation. The development aid chapter, on the one hand, does not, in our view, correspond to the current situation in the world, because it focuses on projects that, in our view, are not even at war in areas that are affected by disasters. Plus, it comes down to the second thing, and that is the need for our own people, who also have to fight a relatively large financial shortage. So the need to supply tens of millions of crowns with projects such as the development of the system of breeding of meat cattle in Bosnia and Herzegovina or the increase in quality and quantity of milk in the Brčko region, the sustainable development of beekeeping in Georgia, we have doubts. That's why the transfer of 150 miles is part of my proposal. CZK from the expenditure indicator of external development assistance and its distribution into the expenditure indicators of the benefit to disabled persons and the contribution to care under the Act on Social Services of the Budget Chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, primarily for repeated initiatives by associations representing these persons, but also non-profit organisations that have long been helping these persons and who know their acute needs, especially in connection with the need to increase contributions to care for disabled persons in the most difficult degree of dependence. Also, to the newly established spending indicator of the budget chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, funds intended to ensure the return of Syrian war refugees to their homeland, because this item is, in our view, very missing, because universal support for the war conflict of severely tested Syria should be a priority of Czech development aid. Finally, into the expenditure item of the Czech Freedom Warriors Union in the expenditure indicator social expenditure, compensation of non-profit and similar organisation, which is part of budget chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration. This union has recently become the target of an unchoosy attack media campaign aimed at undermining its activities, while being the only functional and relevant organisation that brings together direct participants in the war for the liberation of our Republic, defends their legitimate claims, including the claims of survivors for the victims of the struggles for our national liberation, and retains national memory in various ways. It strengthens patriotic traditions and national awareness. It establishes, restores and maintains monuments and monuments of victims of the national struggle for freedom of Czechoslovakia. This year alone, the Union held hundreds of commemorative acts throughout the Czech Republic as a reminder of the victims of these fights. His role in Czech society is irreplaceable. Another amendment concerns transformation cooperation. The explanation is that transformation cooperation consists in funding non-profit organisations that introduce "civil society" abroad, which, in our view, borders on relatively direct interference with the internal affairs of foreign countries. This is unacceptable for us, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we are pointing out the missing items, which are both in the chapter of development aid, because Jordan, which bears the main weight of the migration and refugee crisis, does not come from this item or crown. So that's why we wanted to move, suggest we move 40 miles. CZK for Jordan's development aid. And the other 40 miles. We propose to move to the newly established humanitarian aid item Yemen, where the genocide of the Yemeni population is taking place, there is famine and the world is looking elsewhere, and just as in the budget of Chapter 306, this humanitarian disaster is completely unheard of and unprecedentedly forgotten. So I hereby sign up for amendments registered under document number 1836. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u27	Well, thank you. So I will now ask for Mr Radovan Vích's speech and Mr Dominik Feri will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to present my amendment concerning budget chapter 307 of the Ministry of Defence. Overall, it is a transfer within this chapter of an amount of 1 185 million. In general, these are items relating to our foreign operations, namely an amount of 400 million. CZK, further purchase of equipment, equipment and materials for these foreign operations in the amount of 100 million. and reconstruction, repairs of real estate infrastructure at the University of Defence by an amount of 150 million. and acquisition of a tactical duel simulator and various vehicles for the Military Police in the amount of 100 miles. Kč. Furthermore, I propose to reduce the amount of 35 million. for reconstruction of the building in Těchinín, if the future of this object is not known. And, of course, I can't support an expenditure item of 400 million. to repair and reconstruct immovable infrastructure in eight locations of Military Intelligence, unless their scope is known for reasons of secrecy. And these items essentially in the total sum of 1,185 million. CZK I propose to increase to ensure the defence of the Czech Republic by the forces of the Army of the Czech Republic. These measures essentially aim to maintain and develop the capabilities of the Czech Army's ground forces. I believe that the role of sending military personnel into foreign operations, which in itself increase the demands of the military budget, and the adaptation of units and, in particular, their equipment to the needs of these missions, is being further enhanced by these demands on the military budget, although their effectiveness is questionable, especially in Afghanistan. I therefore sign up for this amendment, which was inserted into the system under number 1801, and I ask you to support this amendment at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u29	Well, thank you. And now two factual points, Mr Karel Rais, please, and Mr Marian Jurečka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u30	Have a good day. I'll get back to the development aid. On the one hand, I agree with a number of things, of course. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the state's international commitments are that we are to put about 0.33 GDP into development aid, and we are barely giving 0.13, which is underfunded. Hardly. On the other hand, I think it's very good that it's philosophy that it's supposed to help at the point of the conflict, and that's true, of course. As far as foreign development cooperation is concerned, at least as far as I've seen the projects, there was a relatively minimal directing, and the funds that were sent to Cambodia, for example, went with a minimum directing. And the second thing is that we have to see more or less entrepreneurs with this help, there were specifically biogas stations, etc. So it's about the directs, of course, it's about the black tunnel for a number of selected nonprofits, too, but I just kind of wanted to add that we have some kind of restriction here that we should respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u31	Well, thank you. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka, with the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u32	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, good afternoon. I would like, in a factual point, to respond to Mr Kobza's speech, because I would like to clarify some things here, perhaps to set the record straight. Please, first of all, let's distinguish two terms. One concept is humanitarian aid and the other is development cooperation. And the Czech Development Agency already has the title of being an agency that primarily addresses the issue of development cooperation. And if we're talking about countries like Syria, etc., it's countries where we're primarily dealing with humanitarian aid today, and it's provided from the budget of both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, or so on. some other resorts, ad hoc as well as government decisions during a given year, when the situation requires it. So to argue that the Czech Development Agency is not doing humanitarian aid to Syria is just extremely unfair, because there is some strategic long-term foreign policy concept that defines six states that we have identified as priority countries for development cooperation. There the Czech Development Agency is doing a very good job. In addition, last year, the Czech Republic expanded its portfolio significantly by projects called so-called projects. B2B, which gives room for the original humanitarian, development aid and cooperation to be established, which also brings effect to Czech companies. So, at the moment we have proposals to cut the Czech Development Agency's budget, we are not only reducing aid in places where it is needed, in places of conflict or post-conflict, where it is also done, for example. to help displaced refugees from the surrounding states, but we are reducing potential for the future for the Czech Republic and for the Czech business as well as for export. We must be aware of that, too, please. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u33	Well, thank you. I therefore call on Mr Dominik Feri to speak, Mr Kopřiva will be prepared. And in the meantime, before the MP arrives, I have an apology here. Mr David Pražák apologizes today from 17 to 19 o'clock because of the meeting in the electoral region. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u34	Yes, thank you for him, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, due to solidarity with later registered colleagues in the debate, very briefly. I hereby sign up for the amendments you will find in the system as House Document Nos 1895, 1896 and 1897. These amendments are sufficiently justified there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u35	So now, with a factual remark, Mr Jiří Kobza.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond by your means to the speech by my colleague Jurečka that, in the case of Syria, I did not talk about humanitarian aid or development aid, but about allocating money to the return policy of refugees to Syria, which is completely different. And I spoke of humanitarian aid in the case of Yemen, which is not mentioned at all in these chapters, neither the Czech Development Agency nor others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u37	So now another de facto Mr Dominik Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u38	I would also like to thank the President for correcting me and supplementing me. I would still like to sign up for House document 1535. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u39	Well, thank you. Now, therefore, Mr Kopřiva in the general debate and Mr Jakub Janda will be prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I want to sign up for an amendment that is recorded as document number 1891. And I will allow myself as briefly as possible to justify it. In fact, it is about strengthening humanitarian aid by 3 % and transforming cooperation by 5 %. The Czech Republic undertook to achieve a share of 0.33% of foreign development cooperation in gross national income by 2030. However, this contribution now amounts to only 0,13% of gross national income. The funds for external development cooperation cannot be seen as expenditure that is going to melt away. It is, in essence, an investment in a safer and dignified future worldwide, including our country. The Czech Republic has a well-established system of humanitarian aid and foreign development cooperation. It is active in a number of places where there are sudden humanitarian disasters or long-term crises. In the long term, we support development projects that improve the conditions for decent living in a given place so that it is not necessary to leave it, i.e. we focus on the causes of forced migration, not on fire-fighting quotes. It is not enough to strengthen security measures at external borders and to carry a burden on transit countries, it is also necessary to focus on prevention. [[16.00 hours]] Development cooperation still has the support of the majority of the Czech public. Three out of the four inhabitants of the Czech Republic think it is necessary to help people in developing countries. More than 90 percent of respondents have ever contributed to charitable purposes. Half the Czech population has already donated money for humanitarian aid and more than a third for development cooperation. The means of external development cooperation contribute to international efforts to improve the living conditions of the people of the developing world. Activities financed by this appropriation contribute to improving the security situation in the world, including the EU countries. At the same time, they help to build a good name for the Czech Republic in a number of partner countries, improve the business environment here, thus allowing them to multiply business opportunities for Czech companies and subsequently enable safe business cases. At present, when there is a trend in the world to minimize subsidies and increase the share of investment capital in developing countries, we need funds for development cooperation to ensure the best possible competitiveness of the Czech Republic among other donors, especially for the mobilisation of investment capital, so that we can participate in development investment by our supplies and services. Development aid works. The UN Millennium Development Goals have shown that it is possible to fight poverty, improve people's living conditions, and give them a chance at a decent life. Since 1990, the number of people living with less than USD 1.25 per day has decreased by one billion. The number of undernourished children has fallen by half as much as child mortality. Ninety percent of children in the world go to school. At the same time, however, almost 800 million people live in extreme poverty and virtually the same number of people are undernourished. Over 250 million children do not go to school, 2 billion people suffer from water shortages, over 60 million people around the world have been forced to leave their homes. Foreign development aid should focus on long-term solutions to problems in developing countries. Czech aid should be predictable and transparent, provided without ulterior intentions and so as to make it clear that it is provided by the Czech Republic. Development cooperation helps people cope with problems that otherwise often make them leave their homes. Thanks to it, people can better prepare for climate change - the arrival of ever more drought or floods - or get an education that will help them find work or start a business, thereby providing sustenance for themselves and their family. It is better to invest in solving people's problems locally than to deal with the consequences. Transformation cooperation reflects the Czech Republic's long-term foreign priority, which is to promote freedom, democracy and human rights. This priority is part of the government's programme statement and long-term conceptual documents, such as the foreign policy concept of the Czech Republic and the concept of promoting human rights and transformation cooperation. And out of solidarity with later co-workers, like my previous speaker, I would have cut it off by now. The whole explanatory memorandum is to be found in the system on the amendment, so I will then ask for the support of this proposal, because I think it is in line with the foreign interests of the Czech Republic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u41	Thank you. Mr Jakub Janda is next in line with the debate, and Mr Blaha will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u42	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to my amendments. The first is introduced in the system under number 1519 and I also apply to my second amendment introduced in the system under number 1521. I will then present the amendments. The first amendment introduced in the system under number 1519, as amended by: The Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 is amended as follows: 1. Expenditure of Chapter 309 - The Ombudsman's office is reduced by a sum of 10 million. 2nd Chapter 333 - The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is increasing in the specific indicator "General sporting activities" under the heading "General sporting activities - subsidies" for the programme 133 530 - The mobility sub-programme of 10 million. Kč. [[Expenditure]] Reason. The draft budget of the Ombudsman's Office for 2019 proposes a renewed staff increase of seven posts, which justify the new operation of the Ombudsman. I would just like to say that last year we approved an increase of 16 new employees, which, in addition to EU programming funding, was also justified by the increase in the Ombudsman's new responsibilities. At present, the Ombudsman's Office has 155 employees and several other external co-workers with expenses of 7 million. Kč. There are so many members of the tribal staff that we need to bring in more space, which is what this proposal is counting on, at the rate of 10 miles. Kč. With this approach, I have no doubt that another year will come to our table with another proposal to increase the number of employees, another proposal to increase expenditure for externalists and possibly another proposal for a new extension of new offices. I think we should really consider whether we want to turn the Ombudsman into such a robust and massive office of two sewers of staff. After all, so many employees have the smallest regional authorities, and at this rate, we are slowly developing a second Ministry of Justice. In the next year, there will be a demand for another ten seats, and that would be worthy of basically its deputy, who will be running only the office for himself. Then, of course, the second deputy with another salary, a service car, and I don't know what other benefits. This increase in the state apparatus and officials is simply insane, and for this reason I tabled an amendment on this issue. My second amendment is introduced under number 1521, as amended by: The Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 is amended as follows: Expenditure of Chapter 304 - The Office of the Government of the Czech Republic is decreasing in Section 614 500 - Expenditure on the subsidy programme "Support of publicly beneficial activities of non-state non-profit organisations in the field of gender equality" by a sum of 7 million. The expenditure of Chapter 313 - The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in the specific indicator "Gifts to Persons with Disabilities', is increased by 7 million. CZK for a contribution to a special aid. I have already tabled a similar amendment in the last year's draft budget, with the difference that the funds saved would go into sport. However, I took to heart the arguments of my angry colleagues, who were outraged that I wanted to spend this money in sport, which, unlike gender activities, I consider my contribution and impact to be much more effective and much better spent. However, to take a step to move this money to the needs of the disabled me rather than outrage supporters of aggressive feminism from among non-profit organizations caused an e-mail to a lady from northern Moravia who has been struggling for several years with the fact that the state does not want to contribute to the new disability crutches. I therefore add money to sport under my other amendment and 7 million, for which brochures are printed and leaflets are issued, I suggest that we move precisely to spending on the purchase of compensation aids to people with disabilities. However, I am still saying, and this is true, that gender equality activities supported by the government's subsidy title are certainly not necessary State expenditure. Due also to the quality of projects from past periods, it is possible to doubt the social benefits, benefits and validity of projects. It must be quite frank to say that at present the grant programme for equal opportunities between women and men is being abused for the ideological and political background of organisations or the restoration of their material technical base, repeatedly. These subsidies are granted to non-profit organizations with very close links to the extreme or extreme left, they hold the ideology of cultural Marxism and often cooperate with organisations monitored by the Security Information Service and thus make a significant contribution to the loss of trust in society in the work of non-profit organizations. [[16.10 hours]] On the other hand, the national budget item of the Czech Republic in the specific indicator of the benefit to disabled persons who are used for contributions to compensation aids does not reflect enough the increase in the cost of the social services system, especially with regard to market prices of compensatory aids, and the increased amount will be used for contributions to special aids. The reduction of expenditure, which would otherwise be used for equal opportunities activities, will at least result in a partial and minimal settlement of the underfunded state of care for disabled people. However, allow me to make a very brief assessment of the grant gender title and to give you arguments as to why these activities are being spent in a completely useless manner. Last year, a number of criticisms fell on my amendment that the issue is not just about equal opportunities, but often about protecting people in a very unpleasant situation. For example, women who have been subjected to domestic violence or who have been raped. It's not true. In 2017, the subsidy programme was supported by 15 out of a total of 28 applications received. In 2018, it was 13 out of 18 applications received, and neither, nor one of these projects, was involved in domestic violence against women or their subsequent care. On the contrary, projects aimed at domestic violence were not supported. The average amount of the subsidy was CZK 465 000 per project. And very interesting information about the headquarters of each supported organization: only one beneficiary is located in Brno, the rest have the registered office of their organization mentioned in Prague. So, as you can see, the problems with equality are almost entirely a matter of the capital, and the regions are barely touching at all, apart from exceptions. However, allow me to quote the final report on the evaluation of the Office of the Government. I quote: "The structure of the impact of the activities supported by the projects has changed. While the beneficiaries previously aimed much more at the whole Czech Republic, this time they concentrated their activities more particularly on the capital city of Prague." End of quote. Furthermore, the Office of the Government states that two thirds of the organisations, i.e. the same organisations, were repeatedly supported by the subsidy programme. In 2018, the situation is similar and eight organisations were identical to 2016. They are mainly organizations of the Czech Women's Lobby, Forum 50 % and Gender Studies. As of 2015, these organisations are even among the regular beneficiaries. The projects dealt mostly with problems in the area of the dignity and integrity of women and men, as has been the case in recent years. Almost half of the supported projects were also dedicated to promoting cooperation with partners and removing gender stereotypes in society. The areas of equality in the labour and business market and in external relations were not directly covered in 2017. So I'm asking you in between the language - where is the solution to domestic violence? However, let us look a little more closely at the projects that we support from taxpayers' money. As an example of good practice, the final report of the Office of the Government presents a proFem project called the New Rape Concept in the light of the Istanbul Convention. This project consists in the fact that the association's lawyers have invented a new substance of the rape crime with the principles set out in the Istanbul Convention, and beware, this is now important, also a new method of structured penalization, and it held a debate with judges and prosecutors. As an example of good practice, the Gender studies project invented a training course Working with gender aspects, with which it was intended to introduce workers to children's homes. So I don't know if there's that much domestic violence going on in the homes, but at least we're gonna train the governess on gender aspects, probably so that no one can be weird that little Pepíček is playing with soldiers while little Anička is playing with dolls. The government also cites as an example of good practice popular competition for the most conscious man named Genderman, who, in addition to learning that men should not open doors to women, chose the Men's Guide and Gender Equality in the Czech Republic, which turns to men with an appeal to male and power relations. A good example, according to the Office of the Government, is also the project of the Union of midwifes, which established a Facebook group for students of midwifery, which encourages members to exchange information. The interesting information to be mentioned is the strong strengthening of partnerships with the League of Human Rights. A member of this organization is lawyer Zuzana Candigliota - I'm sorry, I don't know if I'm reading the name correctly - a lawyer who sues the Czech Bar Association for malpractice when she calls the Mayor of Břeclav a sex organ. So once again, I ask - where are the victims of domestic violence? Women whose associations help out of prostitution asses? Where's the field work? Is she in the La Strada Association that Mrs Richterová introduced here last year? La Strada received a subsidy of CZK 412 000. From the project's billing, we will note that the personnel costs amounted to CZK 303 000, the rest of the money was spent on operating costs, including for example. purchase of network charger to tablet, tablet wrapper, refreshments for training. What was the project's output again? First, an information brochure, second, a multilingual comic book, third, the development of a comprehensive analysis. Is domestic violence solved by the Forum 50 per cent? No way! The main aim of the project was to increase the representation of women in decisive positions in the Czech Republic. The project's activities primarily focused on gender representation in decision-making policy, but also affected other areas, e.g. a system approach to monitoring current status, education, initiating systemic changes and increasing the competence of women for decision-making positions. The activities included e.g. training at the American Center, which, in addition to Mrs Richterová, was attended by 20 people. [[unintelligible]] Furthermore, according to the final report of the project, it was the dissemination of sports on Facebook and the dissemination of press releases. As a result of cooperation with the Czech Women's Lobby, it is also supported by an organization from this grant title, then there was a debate in the Václav Havel Library with a photo point. Among the important publishing activities were publishing on Jana Smiggels Kafková's blog. As a very successful work the project considers the profit of 226 Facebook likes and exceeding the plan of Facebook contributions, because while the project planned 200 posts, it was able to make 269. No, my fellow Members, they're not conjecture, they're quotes from the final reports. Let's continue. In the cost of the project we have an office rental item for CZK 72 000 and wages of CZK 315 000. And here I am asking you to find interviews on this topic from last year, when I was attacked that in the context of projects, money is definitely not used for office rentals, the more so than for office rents in the center of Prague, like the Gender Studies Association. However, the operating costs include, inter alia, the purchase of a dresser, container under the table and other useful items in the total amount of CZK 106 992,99. To be objective, I add that the purchase of Soft plus and the container under Optima's desk did not recognise the Office of the Government, so it saved CZK 5,683. The main outputs of the project were the dissemination of an electronic flyer, sending out a press release and a debate. Again, I'm asking where the domestic violence is. Is it in the dresses and the office rent? [[16.20 hours]] The registered Dialogue Society, which organized four workshops for 30 people, also reported simple costs - 154 000 per salary, 2 800 per printer purchase, and about 6 000 per toner and snack purchase. I wonder what these workshops were about. So for the record, one of the invitation leaflets was: Angry women cordially invite you to non-violent communication that allows you to experience all the rights of men, women and children. In operating costs, however, the project of the Czech Women's Lobby for CZK 140 000 spent only on the operation of the association, i.e. office supplies, refreshments during executive committees and general meetings, electricity and gas, maintenance of the office, travel expenses and other personnel costs of CZK 50 000. I am overlooking the fact that this association, in which it is also a member and even one of the statutory representatives of Eliška Kodyšová, which also acts as Vice-President of the Government Council on Gender Equality. The same case is the director of Genders studies Helena Skálová, whose project received CZK 691 736, and the vast majority of money was spent on wages and discussion meetings in the Genders studies library. Last year's very popular argument was the argument, if we're taking something for the job, we're doing it almost for free, for the crippled rewards plummeting below the average wage. The words of Director Skálová. So let's see for example. for the Cats2Cats project and their project a brief history of women in art, where one employee worked for 250 crowns an hour on the contract for the work and came to a beautiful 63,000 crowns. This is indeed a very below-average wage. For the sake of order, it is in this project that the Authority's control also found moderate errors in billing. That it doesn't mean anything, it's just one project? Nope. If we look at another project called Time for Parliamentary Democracy in general beneficial companies Forum 50 %, we will find that the local PR manager working part-time has been recognised a salary of CZK 30,000 a month. To be fair, this under-valued lady's government paid only CZK 45,000 out of taxpayers' money. And for what? And now I would like the attention of the lady Member: for the Rose for the Member who was supposed to give roses to the newly elected Members at this House's first meeting. I did a little research on ten of the ladies, and imagine that six out of ten ladies didn't get the rose. Maybe I asked the wrong lady or the wrong lady. The Non-Seating Association and its Project Education against Gender Stereotypes, whose main aim was to increase sensitivity to gender issues in education among various actors in the education system, with special attention to actors with which little or no work is being done, e.g. They're Boy Scouts and Girls. I don't know exactly what this means, but I ask again: Where is the domestic violence addressed? However, I was most interested in the project involving women in reducing the effects of climate change from the Ecumenical Academy. ♪ She ♪ The Ecumenical Academy has rich ties to the extreme left. In the Ecumenical Academy team, for example. works Jan Májíček, who has become known to the wider public as spokesperson for the initiative No to the bases and sympathizer of the terrorist movement Hezbollah. Ekumenická akademie also cooperates with the German post-communist foundation Rosa Luxemburg, which is connected with the extreme left-wing side of Die Linke and which has ties to the group of socialist circles, the extreme left-wing economist Ilona Švihlíková or conspiracy theorist Daniel Solis in the Czech Republic. The Ecumenical Academy in its project promised to focus on problems such as the feminisation of poverty and the promotion of fairrad products. To this end, she paid for the acquisition of a thematic exhibition and in various places of the Czech Republic, for example in Štětí she offered fairradové goodness. And that's a quote from the final report, please. Fairrad's goodies. Next, e.g. The Ecumenical Academy screened the film The Great Banana Robbery for Students of the High School of Trade, Services and Crafts and Students of the Husova Elementary School in Tábor. Lobbying with representatives of self-government, she looked at conferences on sustainable development from a gender perspective. The Ekumenická academy itself admitted that in the implementation of the project she faced problems. Compared to the originally estimated amount of 821 541 crowns, it came to just 703 077 crowns. The taxpayer paid not only for the exhibition, but for practically all year, he financed activists, business and offices, as well as all sorts of equipment. The salaries, including legal contributions and agreements for the execution of the work, were CZK 161 746. Another 10,000 activists received a travel agent and, for CZK 21,352, the taxpayer bought them a laptop, speakers, office chair and telephone. Finally, 80 760 crowns fell on the office, including energy and phone bills. In the application of the Ekumenická academy, the financing was also 31 455 CZK from other sources. But - on sponsorship donations, the Ecumenical Academy was able to obtain a total of 213 crowns. 213, not 231,000. 213 kroner. 99.97 percent of the funds spent thus went out of taxpayers' pockets. Therefore, only 0,3 per cent of the resources spent were paid out from own resources. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I want us to stop playing fairy tales about selfless nonprofits that, under the guise of aggressive feminism, take for their hostage women who have suffered domestic violence. In recent years, nonprofit organizations themselves have faced a huge loss of public confidence. According to the latest investigation by the Center for Public Opinion Research, 51% of respondents do not trust them. The non-profit sector pays enormously to the state's public support for subsidies such as gender activisms. Let's stop printing leaflets, brochures and comic books for public money. Let us stop subsidizing office chairs and suites to activists, and let us give this money to disabled citizens for compensatory aids. I thank you for your attention and believe in the support of my amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u43	Thank you for your performance. Your performance has raised a number of factual points. The first is Mr Ferjenčík, and Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, Mr Dolínek and Mr Bartoš will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u44	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond very briefly to my previous speaker. First of all, midwifes are very important professions. I think it's useful for them to exchange information, and I don't understand what bothers my colleague. I think it's right that the state supports it. Well, that's one point. And the second point that I would very much like us to have an equally detailed overview of the management of other state institutions, not just the non-profit sector. I think, of course, that some of these projects are problematic, and I don't think anybody's gonna question that here. However, the fact that we have such a detailed overview of the financing is very good. And I wish that we had that for those items that are drawing multiple amounts from the budget, if we could also look at the efficiency of that money in such detail. After all, we will also make a motion for an accompanying resolution in this spirit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u45	Thank you. Mrs Gajdůšková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I have lived in the belief that this afternoon is part of the discussion of the state budget, not ideological debates about what is or is not gender perspective. First of all. Secondly, I would really, very much like to see how the previous speaker from the ODS thinks that domestic violence needs to be dealt with. By the way, according to statistics and according to what is confessed or by some sexual violence, every third woman in the Czech Republic has experience in some way. [[16.30 hours]] And in terms of equality, only in the labour market do women in the Czech Republic earn an average of 22 percent less than men. College-educated women even 29 percent less than men, which is a 15,000 gross monthly difference. I stress that these statistics are considered to be the same work in the same place. And we could quote other things. In international comparison, the Czech Republic is therefore in the area of gender equality, e.g. in the ranking of the World Economic Forum, on which the ODS should hear, the evaluation gender inequality of the Czech Republic has ranked 88th from 144 evaluated countries. And in a similar ranking of the European Institute for Gender Equality, the Czech Republic has ranked 25th in 28 countries. I thought we were in the 21st century and wanted to be a civilized country. And I'm actually quite surprised by the way the ODS representative is looking at the thing and presenting it. [[Your time.]] [[Thank you.]] I think we should be more supportive of these organizations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u47	Thank you for the time. Mr. Dolínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u48	Good afternoon. I'm a little bit, I don't mean to say horrified, I might have expected it, but I'm surprised what dictionary, what sort of labeling we can experience here in the Chamber of Deputies. I don't know what everything about people who are ordinary, normal representatives of the non-profit sector seems a little scary to me. Also, I don't do some people's evaluations here because it feels like it doesn't belong here. Of course, the second thing is, if someone disagrees with some projects, talk about them elsewhere than once a year here in this place and go actively into it, talk about whether the direction and assignment of the program is correct or not. After all, the parallel is in sport, in youth, everywhere else, when it hits some limits on programs, so it always begins with talking about setting these programs. And one thing of all, it all seems quite unfair to me, as it sounds here, because we know that, of course, all non-profits operate on the basis of multi-source funding, that these people work on more projects, that, of course, these projects provide for the operation of non-profit organizations and the projects themselves. Unfortunately, the Czech Danish system is not at an advanced level so that many things can be transferred to private donors. Unfortunately, it's still not that high here. I could also imagine that, not in this area, but generally in the case of donation, in a different form. But the motivational elements are up to us to get them into the legislation so that donation is a matter of prestige and that people are ready to do it. But one thing was totally unfair, and that's to say where the organizations that are asking for something are based. My fellow Member's association is based on sports in Prague 6 in Cukdrarnická Street, and the Union's activities are not going well here even 1 per cent when I do not take the Lajdáček section and a few others that have dry preparation here. Therefore, please, let us not take where they have their headquarters, let us take where they implement projects. It's more important. This is how I appreciate other organizations that must have a seat somewhere, and let's see how it's been realized. [[Your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u49	Thank you. A point of fact, President Bartoš. Mrs Pekarová, Janda, Kasal, Nacher will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u50	Good afternoon. I would just like to thank my two previous speakers quickly through Mr President and respond to the third speaker. I think I'm not extremely sensitive, but what was said here seemed unfair to me, and according to your statement, my colleague, it seems to me that we are still giving little money in the finals. The primary way to deal with domestic violence is openness, involvement, education. You've been throwing ciphers around here. On the one hand, you're saying that this sector is under-promotion, and then you're assessing whether it's a lot to give a marketing specialist in PR to pick up the topic with the funding. You've valued a year's wages of 160,000. That's $10,000 a month. To attack this thing at a time when there is a large percentage of domestic violence in the Czech Republic and only education, awareness and openness is addressed, I think it is rude. I am very sorry, I often take part in these events, because I am interested in the subject, I think equality is only declarative, it is not real. And when you talked about a brochure coming out, I would like to look into the House's system of finding out how much it cost our famous 100-year Parliamentary meeting card in its beautiful packaging and what its information contribution was to me, or perhaps to you, when we talk about materials and the cost of information leaflets. It didn't seem fair to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u51	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Pekarová, Mr Janda will be prepared with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u52	Thank you for the floor. It will not surprise Mr Janda, because we have already had this discussion here during last year's budget discussion. He found his theme in this. So be it, everyone can, of course, devote themselves to what he sees fit. But I was fascinated by his long and very detailed speech that he said that it is no wonder that the non-profit sector in our country is losing, let's say, the credibility of the public of these perhaps logically sounding arguments, but in some cases I am surprised not only by his rhetoric but by the expressions he uses, but also by reasoning. I would like to stand up for the nonprofit sector, because the nonprofit sector, civil society, is doing a huge job. Today, by the way, we have International Volunteer Day, so we also remember those who spend their time, energy, completely without a claim to a fee to make the world a better place, whether right here or anywhere else in other countries. I appreciate this very much, and I appreciate all those who, at often very low salaries, try to move things forward for the better. On the contrary, you are doing this very argument through the President, and you are jumping on the wave that is being created here, and we are not going to speculate here, in the context of a factual remark, where everywhere these influences are, which the non-profit sector and civil society are accusing of anything. I think that if, for example, the other beneficiaries of state money were under the kind of scrutiny that nonprofit organizations are under, it would only be for the benefit of the cause, because they really do not just in the annual reports, but in everything they get, they have to document until the last penny. [[Time.]] It's unfair to them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u53	Thank you. Mr Jakub Janda and Mr David Kasal will be prepared, with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u54	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond, through Mr President, to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková and to Mr Bartoš. Domestic violence, yes, is a big subject. And I'm not pretending that this subject has to be dealt with. It has to be dealt with. It's a big deal. And I'm here -- then, when it comes out in the log, go through what I said. That these nonprofit organizations I've named are just hiding behind it, I was attacked last year, and they don't give a damn about domestic violence. That's what I wanted to say. Domestic violence is a big issue, domestic violence has to be dealt with, but these nonprofits are just hiding behind it and no project they have created has been committed to domestic violence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u55	Thank you. Mr David Kasal, Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková by means of you, which I very much appreciate. Just the numbers. We've already discussed this on the Social Committee. I do not doubt that there is some inequality, but 22 percent that is mentioned, so when I have sent out basic numbers, and thus we ourselves get to 88th place, so we cannot compare the fact that I compare the profession of miners and compare the profession in the social field. Because we certainly don't want women working in mining. That's one problem. The second problem is that there are extreme groups of well-paid officials, which is in banking. And then when we discussed it with the gentleman at the government committee, I think it should be a little bit straightened out, the statistics. I am also talking about the fact that you have table salaries in the social health sector, and there are really no such differences. So I say yes, inequality is, but I don't agree that it's 22 percent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u57	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Patrik Nacher, Mr Jaroslav Holík will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I really didn't want to talk to that point. . [[Laughter in the left side of the Chamber]] I have to admit that, but I have to. I have to stand up for Janda because he's consistent. And by the way, the reactions are consistent. He was acting like this, if you remember, a year ago, and as I recall, he suggested moving the money to sports. I voted for it then. Now he's proposing to move them to support people with disabilities, if I understand correctly. In other words, he's consistent in this. It's not like he's playing any kind of theater here right now. But consistent are the reactions that prevent it. He did nothing but what he did a year ago. He just read the list of the projects. The fact that some of these projects and some of these organizations are absurd, that's just the way it is. He only put a mirror here. And quite fundamentally, when the word "demagogy" or something like that is said here, I do not quite agree with the thesis, which I think we will meet here quite often with the Istanbul Convention - that who does not agree with these projects or who does not agree with the ratification of the Istanbul Convention as if it supports domestic violence? You can't be serious. We just don't agree with this kind of operation of so-called nonprofit organizations. Because then it's the Bear Service. And look at how some research is developing, how people feel about the Istanbul Convention, but also about the marriage of the same sex couples. It's just when something's too much, when it blows over, it pisses those people off. And I think that's what he was going to say here and undermine Janda's colleague. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u59	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Jaroslav Holík, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to approve the most important task that we have here in the House, or we should approve it. But instead, there's a frogmy war going on here. I accept that domestic violence is an interesting subject, that it is a necessary subject, but the budget is more important from my point of view. So I suggest we do the state budget and then we do the program here. Like a kaleidoscope.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u61	Thank you. Mrs Gajdůšková, Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u62	Thank you. I agree that we are to pay attention to the state budget, and I also said so at the beginning of the first speech. At this point, just two brief remarks on his highly esteemed colleague Kasal, statistics. I used the numbers the Office of the Government gives. I can't count it. One thing. Second thing. Question to Mr Janda, through Mr President. How do you really want to reach out in society to domestic violence, sexual violence really be unacceptable in that society, rather than raising and teaching? There's no other way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u63	Thank you for keeping the point of fact. Mr. Vojtěch Munzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I want to start by thanking my colleague Nacher, who said a lot of things here that I wanted to say for me. It is the difference between volunteer activity that we must support and hat down in front of all those who help and certainly deserve state aid there. But there is a difference between political activism that does not help, only hides behind some issues and tries to convince taxpayers of their truth for the money. And I think that was the purpose of my colleague Janda's performance. And I wanted to respond to President Bartoš through you, who said the word here: it's not fair to throw ciphers. Well, when else do we talk about taxpayers' money than when we talk about the state budget? That wasn't fair, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u65	Thank you. With priority rights... Excuse me, Mr. Bartoš with a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u66	I'd just like to clarify. Here it was: Jesus Christ, a hundred thousand a year in payroll! So I said there's 100,000 a year in payroll. I like to hear accurate information when it's clearly stated what sums we're talking about, how many PR managers or advisors you can get for Facebook, how much ODS pays your Facebook administrator. We know it, we're publishing it. So normally, just when we're talking about something, if it's effective, please tell me it's $10,000 a month, so we can see how sloppy these nonprofits are, how much they spend in those staff. I just hope that when we talk about the choice of copyright for the OSA, so that no one will be surprised that there will only be three hundred million in operating costs. We always have to put the framework. And please, there's really nothing in the $100,000 budget of an organization for a year in these payrolls. It's the guy who's going to be taking classes after school that only goes on a fare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u67	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President Okamura, with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, there have already been amendments tabled by our SPD movement to the state budget. I would perhaps just recapitulate that we are presenting them in the amount of approximately CZK 3.5 billion. In summary, it is about moving money towards decent and proper citizens, from political non-profits towards disabled fellow citizens; we also propose to reduce expenditure on foreign missions of the Czech army and, on the contrary, increase money in defence of the Czech Republic; We also propose to invest in anti-immigration measures by better targeting development aid, reducing inclusion in education, and, on the contrary, supporting disabled people and, for example, supporting the solution of bark sludge. We also propose to increase expenditure to support the fight against drought and the drying of water in the countryside. We have already spoken on behalf of the SPD many times about the budget submitted for 2019. We're at the top of the boom. Speaking of classics, better times are over. The estimates of tax revenue are based on the April macroeconomic forecast, which envisages an increase in GDP at constant prices of 3,3 %, at current prices of 5,2 percent of GDP. These numbers are no longer trusted by the Ministry of Finance, which roughly every quarter corrects its estimate. Last November, only 2,9% of growth is mentioned. The German economy decreased by 0,2 % in the third quarter compared to the previous three months. This is the first ever decline since the first quarter of 2015. Even more warning is the so-called IFO indicator, which maps the business climate in Germany. While in October it was at 102,9 points, a month later it dropped to 102 points. The indicator has fallen for the third month in a row, which is regarded by the professional public as a turning point in the economy. Bad estimates are one of the criticisms of economists at the Ministry of Finance, which budgets plan very differently than the reality at the end of the year. In 2011, one company's boss declared - quote: "Deficit is loss. If someone put together a business plan with a loss, I'd throw it away." This boss subsequently became Minister of Finance and is Prime Minister of the Czech Republic today. I don't know what happened, but since then, he's been drawing up budgets fundamentally with loss. In 2014, Andrej Babiš claimed that within three years he would like to have balanced state budgets. We're writing a budget for 2019 and we're having a deficit like thunder again. Expenditure on government debt management should increase by CZK 1.3 billion to CZK 46.5 billion next year against this year's approved budget. The increase in interest expenditure is also expected to be 1.3 billion. Of course, the problem is overemployment in the government, which is cutting people off from the private sector on the one hand, and on the other hand, this private sector is spying on money for which the state is paying for a growing bureaucratic apparatus. I would like to stress that we have absolutely nothing against civil servants. On the contrary, we are in favour of improving their conditions and salaries. In order for the state to function, it needs good civil servants. But at the same time, there must be no overemployment in the state administration, because it will result in economic problems for everyone. EET, for example, accompanied a campaign that created the feeling that businessmen were robbing the state. What nonsense is this? Businessmen are rightfully entitled to what they earn by doing their job. Whoever's stealing from here is a state that's trying to squeeze businessmen, businesses, and citizens to the max. [[16.50 hours]] In the last four years, the number of civil servants has risen by approximately 30,000. Only last year there were 10,000 new state employees and the cost increased by 15 billion. In total, 432,000 people worked in the administration. Salary expenditure in central government bodies was 10 billion more year on year. In total, the state paid civil servants and other civil servants CZK 166,6 billion last year. Like I said, it's a good thing people get paid. But these numbers are economically scary at the moment when we realize that we are in the 21st century, that we have quick electronic communication, computers and software that should be able to handle a lot of work for a person and work to speed up and make it more efficient. In practice, however, the exact opposite is happening in the current government. During the current government with more modern technology, more people are needed than at times when the clerk had only a pencil, a pen and a calculator in his hand. This testifies to a completely flawed government concept, to which all citizens pay financially in the finals. Of course, we have ours in the quotes of a famous political nonprofit. In total, selected nonprofit organizations from the state, from the government, received subsidies of CZK 17,889 billion. And the truth is, it's extremely difficult to collect which money really went to Godly projects. Millions discuss not only pro-brussels activists, but the fact is that, according to the scandal at the Ministry of Education, the use of subsidies under the current government composition is generally very dubious. Which is sad, because, for example, sports, especially children and youth, should be promoted to the maximum. I just happened to look at the management of a nonprofit group of porn actors, Jakub Janda, who calls himself European values. Unfortunately, the most recent annual report of this association is from 2016. These political manipulators were then financially supported by the Ministry of Education, the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, the Czech-German State Fund of the Future under the Ministry of Culture, and the Ministry of the Interior. And what are our taxes - yours and mine - that obscure society is creating? The monstrous nonsense that even Czech experts from the Faculty of Social Sciences at Charles University, the Institute of International Relations, the Metropolitan University of Prague and the Association for International Affairs forced them to make public calls and to warn about the babbles of so-called European values. The official statement of Czech experts states that - I quote: "The European Value Association has flooded the public debate with a huge number of expert studies characterized by strict interpretations based on the so-called neoconservative ideology and often under-accepted basic ethical standards as an admission of foreign authorship of analytical conclusions, whose compilations often claim to be their own research. A separate chapter is the stigmatization of part of the reasoning area using concepts such as disinformation, propaganda and hybrid threats. In the submission of European values, it also concerns positions that are legitimately and rarely expressed in the Western expert debate. European values are only one, albeit extreme case, as far as wiping the boundaries of ideology and expertise in public debate can go." Dear ladies and gentlemen. At least you can see what the state in this government's proposed budget spends big money on. I have no idea why we should pay any misguided ideological crap out of our taxes, not just Mr. Janda. My idea of what the Ministry of Education is running really gets out of hand to pay for the trips of a crazy gay porn star in high school. And not only his failed politicians, but also his failed politicians, who improve their budget with our money and their ideologically bluffing high school students. One of them is the European Parliament's Exmissary for ČSSD Libor Rouček. And there is a logic about why the Ministry of Social Democrats spends money on the association that feeds the Social Democrats. Well, dear colleagues and colleagues from social democracy, wouldn't it be worth considering a more honest way of living than parasiticism in public finances? Public money is needed for public services, for pensioners, for infirms. Not on the workless incomes of politicians who have at least healthy hands, if no more reason. The state is handing out public money, and instead of looking for savings in times of economic abundance, it continues to be in debt. But even a superficial view of the state's spending shows that there are reserves. I just want to look for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u69	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Jakub Janda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u70	Thank you. I'd just like to say that porn actor Jakub Janda isn't me. I've never had any acting skills, and I've never had any porn actors. It's really just a coincidence of names. So I wanted to set it straight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u71	Thank you. We are going back to the debate. Mr. Blaha. I ask for peace in the Chamber of Deputies and Mr Blaha has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Janda's colleague isn't really a porn star. As we know, he's a great jumper. [[Loud laughter and applause all over the room.]] But to the point, ladies and gentlemen. We can say that our economy is doing well. Unemployment is the lowest in the European Union and has virtually no place to go, GDP is growing, state budget revenues have never been as high as they are today. In other words, we're actually having a pretty good time. In such a situation, I expect the government to do everything possible to keep this satisfaction in our country as long as possible. So that it will invest in education, research, development, infrastructure, significantly reduce the debt of the Czech Republic and simplify the way for all who want to do business and work. In short, I would expect a responsible policy with long-term objectives. I'm the mayor of 25,000 city, and I know what it's like to run a budget, plan revenue and spending, and take care of development. But I have a completely opposite feeling about the state budget. It is probably best described by the words of First Republic politics by Antonín Švehla: "Social Democrats like to distribute pies that they have not baked themselves and could not bake, because they have eaten dough that has not yet been enough to leave. " Although the strongest ruling party is called YES 2011, it has actually already taken over the policy of social democracy, and this still current quote is more than apt. Between 2015 and 2019, the number of civil servants will increase by exactly 45 775. There are also many officials whose work is unfortunately often associated with unpleasant manners, unnecessary paperwork and cumbersome approach. The average salary in the state sector is higher than the average salary in the private sector. I guess I don't have to say that it's not too much support for companies that are fighting for every employee today. Saving and responsible behaviour of the state is also reflected in the rising cost of an item called seemingly innocent material purchases. It is 5.6% higher than last year, it is CZK 9.5 billion. And what's underneath it? Well, to put it simply, all the things we wouldn't have to buy if the government had been electronized. If we didn't have to print, file, stamp and then scan and reprint. No, it's not a bad joke. This is the reality of the Czech authorities. Wasn't that the electronization of this government's pre-election vows? Another nice item is other non-investment expenses. This mysterious name denotes all the things that make civil servants live and live better. Of course, these expenditures are also rising, even by 7.2 percent compared to 2018. Our government has allocated CZK 5.8 billion to them. A compound tax quota is also growing, but this is not reflected in the service of the state and the speed of response to critical situations. We face major problems that can no longer be put off, and the government has a duty to deal with them. The kůrovcový disaster devastates our drought-damaged forests. Regardless of the government's declaration, the transport infrastructure is at a shameful level. The government forgets culture, regional theatres are not supported as they deserve, and monuments are decaying. I have therefore prepared amendments to the state budget on these issues. You don't go under the numbers 1900, 1905 and 1906. I hereby apply to them, and I am convinced that these are important points that need to be addressed and which deserve your attention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u73	Thank you. There is one point in fact, Mr Ivan Jáč. Is he here in the hall? No, that means I'm canceling my point of order. Mr Jan Zahradník is in the debate. I'll read an apology. I apologise to Mr Jáč at today's meeting from 18 o'clock to the end of the meeting and to Mrs Věra Adámková at today's meeting between 17 and 19 o'clock due to a doctor's visit. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u74	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech I would like to express my appreciation to my fellow Member Jand for the analysis he made regarding some non-governmental non-profit organisations. He pierced a wasp's nest and could expect that his factual account would be considered incorrect, incorrect, and that he would be attacked. Finally, activists are not only in non-governmental non-profit organizations. However, I would like to focus my speech on Chapter 315 of the Ministry of the Environment, whose budget I criticised at first reading. I must say that I miss significantly in the whole budget what is absolutely fundamental in the budgets of municipalities and regions, the distribution of current and capital expenditure net of expenditure financed from the European Union, or from financial mechanisms, so that it can be seen how the funds collected from our citizens' taxes are actually spent. In my first proposal, I would like to focus on a problem that is significantly addressed in the media and which Stanislav Blaha, a previous speaker, was talking about. It is a major problem of drought, a problem that results in crust sludge and others. In our budget, two items are devoted to the fight against drought: the Landscape Care Programme and the Restoration Program of the Natural Functions of the Landscape. The Landscape Care Program is subsidized quite significantly. It's 150 miles away. Crowns. The question is, however, that it deals with rather non-investment activities. It is non-investment money to maintain the function of protected areas, mowing, protection of endangered animals and others. And then there is the Renewing of Natural Functions of the Landscape, where investment measures are already possible, and it is subsidised as it was in the previous budget, only 30 miles. Crowns. I think those subroutines that are supposed to restore the natural functions of the landscape, whether in terms of forest, water or other aspects, are very important and deserve greater support. Therefore, in my first proposal, I propose to increase this amount by 10 million. Crowns. Where do you get it? Mr Janda mentioned here how non-governmental non-profit organisations in the field, say, human rights, deal with public funds. I could make a similar list here in terms of how non-governmental non-profit organisations deal with public funds in the field of the environment. Our budget remembers NGOs in the field of the environment 20 miles. CZK, specifically there are programs that are subsidized from 30 to 200 thousand. Crowns. Each organisation may submit a maximum of three projects. And if we do the math, let's say that this organization is going to reach roughly some average amount here at about 100 thousand. CZK, it will be diligent, it will submit two applications, and let's say that we have 60 to 80 such diligent organizations here, we will reach about 10 miles. Crowns. It's possible from here 10 miles. take them and move them to the program Restoring the natural functions of the landscape. This therefore concerns my amendment, which was included in the system under number 1886. In particular, I mean that it could, in particular, be directed towards supporting the system of environmental stability linked to the water regime. My second amendment concerns municipalities in national parks. Our budget consistently uses the concept of a municipality situated in the territory of national parks, without in some way correct recognition that it is the contrary that the national park is located in the cadastral areas mentioned above, that primarily many centuries ago there were municipalities, had their territories, lived in them people, managed, influenced this landscape by physical and spiritual aspects, and only then, as they saw other priorities than the preservation of bare life, they created national parks in these territories. And these municipalities have compensated their losses to a relatively small extent. I don't know, I always give an example of the municipality of Modrava, which has a cadastral of about 7.5 thousand. ha forest land, while compensation receives only about 320 ha. The Kasper Mountains have 5,000. ha of its forest property in the first zone of the national park, once again compensated for the loss to a small extent. The municipalities are a relatively endangered species in the system of national parks. This House approved a amendment to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act in the past period, which gives the municipalities relatively little authority in the process of creating basic documents of the principles of care, zoning. The nature conservation authority must agree on the terms and conditions of these materials, these documents, with the board of the park in which the municipalities have their representatives, but let us admit that there is something different than when, in some grémium between 20 others and another 20 to a total of about 45, it can speak and defend interests than when a nature conservation authority, a national park manager, has to come to the village, it has to deal directly with the mayor, it must present to him the intentions of zoning and explain to him why nature needs to be protected by the strictest possible regime around the village. That's not happening. So I think that municipalities should be bailed out in some other way and their functions of self-government supported in a different way. Therefore, I propose to increase this amount of compensation for the losses of municipalities in the territory of national parks by 10 million. Crowns. Once again, there is a question of where to take it. Here I repeatedly draw attention to the item in our budget called transfers to international organisations. The amount of 250 miles has somehow settled there since last year. Crowns. I have always called, asked, and begged to make some analysis of the usefulness of these contracts, which somehow absorb 250 miles. CZK for our republic. Nothing like this ever happened. That is why I think that there will be no harm to our commitments to various international agreements if we reduce this amount by 10 miles. CZK and we will move them to the item of compensation for losses of municipalities in national parks. This is therefore proposal number two, which is registered as House document 1887. [[17.10 hours]] Finally, there is the third amendment prepared by my colleague Vojtěch Munzar, whose honour I am therefore to be a co-president, which focuses precisely on funds of 10 million. CZK once again for the expenditure block conservation of nature and landscape, spending circuit improvement of the state of nature and landscape, for the programme Landscape care. This program subsidizes or increases by 10 million. CZK, which is already there, and therefore specifically means supporting the planting of insulation greenery in the interior of settlements, i.e. municipalities. This is a programme that was once part of the budget, but gradually disappeared from it, while we know how important greenery is in the interiors of our municipalities, and therefore it is good to support it. The 10 miles. We propose to take Cenia and the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute from the budget together with our colleague Munzar. The first one, five miles. CZK and the other CZK 5 million. Crowns. This is also the content of the revenue item of our amendment. This proposal was registered as a House document 1935. So they are all inserted into our House system. And at the end of my speech - I will repeat this once again - to the Chambers of Documents 1886, 1887 and 1935 to sign up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to Mrs Pekarová in the debate, I will apologise to Minister Dan Ťok until the end of the meeting day. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u76	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try very briefly to present my three amendments, which you will find in the system. First, I will focus on two things that are similar to one thing, namely that they are actually both from the same chapter in terms of reducing expenditure, except that we can use the purpose of money better in my opinion. It is also up to us, therefore, to see where we see the priorities that we consider more important, whether we want to maintain the current fare discounts, which I consider absolutely necessary, and instead, whether we lean towards one or the other proposal, we can help really much better, more targeted and specific groups of people. In one case, this money, which therefore amounts to more than 5 billion, would amount to almost 6 billion. CZK, they could go to the handicapped, to the care allowance, and in the second case my amendment concerns the parental contribution, i.e. families with the smallest children. Why did I choose such areas? Of course, the budget is the best indicator of the priorities of individual political parties and governments. And I think that, in the Czech Republic, instead of subsidizing significant parts of the people travelling on trains and buses, we should focus on more vulnerable groups. And the most vulnerable group of people, in my opinion, are people with any disability, disability, who are the beneficiaries of the care allowance. Of course, we have a four-degree care allowance, and now it's one of the other materials that we have here in the House in another bill that came out of the Senate. One of the frequent arguments that we hear in his discussion, especially from the government, is that there will be no money for the increase in the care allowance in the specific amounts in which we are talking about it next year. I therefore propose this amendment so that we can have a clear cover to make this change, and from next year, from 2019 onwards, to help those tens of thousands of people who are in this situation and who are very often dependent on helping other people, whether professionals or within their own family or their immediate surroundings. This is therefore an amendment that you will find as House document number 1660. This is therefore a transfer to the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, namely in the specific indicator of the contribution to care under the Social Services Act, the amount of 5.9 billion. Kč. As I have already mentioned, this is specifically a move from the chapter of the Ministry of Transport from a specific indicator to other expenditures associated with the state's transport policy. This is the first possible purpose of using this money in a better way than it is now. And the second option, that is the other amendment I am proposing, you will find it under House document 1661, which therefore concerns parental contribution. This is only a lower 100 million, namely 5,8 billion. CZK, in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, this time in a specific indicator of the benefits of state social support and foster care. In this case, it is rather a response to the debates that are taking place here between the government parties, namely the ANO movement and the ČSSD movement, when we are already in the programming declaration, or to us citizens, citizens, the government has promised an increase in parental allowance, which has not been validated for a good ten years, so above it, if the parent draws it within the most common period, which is three years, has long not been a month's minimum wage, because it is really little more than CZK 7,000, and, as we know, the minimum wage is CZK 5,000 today. So it's really a very poor money for which some moms and whole families sometimes have to live. I think it is time to increase this particular dose. And because the government promises this, too, but it does, we will allow it, by approving this amendment, to make an increase from next year, namely from mid-2019, to the amount promised by the government itself, to CZK 300,000 in the absolute number, and, of course, in the case of twins and multiples, it is a correspondingly higher amount. I think that the support for both of these areas is much more fundamental than the fare discounts that are being used today, which, as is shown in the first months of their operation, will cost a lot more money than originally planned, and instead of using the money in some meaningful way, we are wasting it, so for that reason I think it is time to make this change. The last amendment I am proposing concerns a completely different area and also a completely different order in terms of money, because only 450 thousand are concerned. You will find it under the House document 1860 and it is actually an effort that is repeated on my part, because it concerns the budget of the Office of the President of the Republic, namely in the indicator of other purchases under the item travel domestic and foreign. I would rather put this money on drug policy, on prevention programmes financed by this chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. And I'll tell you why. [[17.20 hours]] The President has long failed to respect government positions, virtually. Government foreign policy. He often acts against her, as opposed to her completely. And so when he subsequently represents us on foreign travels, they are very often such controversial trips as when he goes for example to Jakuninův's conference at Rhodes etc. I think that, as Members, we have little opportunity to do anything about this, and this is one of the specific ones where we can influence the budget of the President's office on these very routes, and we can make it clear that we do not agree with these paths. It is not that we do not allow Mr. President to travel at all. On the other hand, of course, the amount is already in the budget. But it is, of course, a gesture that we can make as opposed to the direction of our President's foreign policy. After all, next year's office calls for a higher amount than it had so far, and in the previous years, it has not actually spent the budget proposal as much as it had. You can also find it in the amendment. I'm putting all of this in, there's been a clear table since 2014. You will see how this proposal was different from the actual expenditure and what differences we are moving in. I think that if we want to show the President that we do not agree with his activities, we do not agree that he does not honor the foreign concept of the Czech Republic and does not honor government policy, so it is a gesture that we can make, we should, and that we will show that this is not indifferent to us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u77	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Mr Dominik Feri apologizes until the end of the day for working reasons. And Mr. Jiří Mihola has the floor in the debate. Mr. Vácha will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u78	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I come to load and justify two amendments to the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019. The first one concerns church and private schools. It is: in Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, in the specific indicator of regional education expenditure and directly managed organisations /in the chapter workbook under point BIII.2/ in the framework of direct expenditure on regional education, expenditure for private schools will increase by a total amount of 824 million. CZK 225 500 000 CZK and for ecclesiastical schools on the basis of current expenditures, regional education expenditures, direct regional education expenditures - established local authorities with adequate proof of wage resources, levies and other current expenditures. It is a House document of 1806. And now a brief justification, because there's still a long line behind me. It is a wage increase for teachers in private and ecclesiastical schools, so that the wages of these teachers in ecclesiastical and private schools will be comparable to those of teachers in schools established by the state, regions and others. So we would remove the problem that has been dragging on for many years, that we don't want to be second-class teachers, which I'm sure none of us want, and we have to refuse and fix it. In addition to that, I add that they actually receive the church and private schools then the increase, but with an annual delay. And that's how they really feel behind. You know that in the last year, the wages of teaching workers in primary and secondary schools increased, not in general - because it's all false that they say "earned to teachers' salaries," and everyone thinks they've been increasing to all teachers. And maybe college isn't involved. I'm just delivering it to the public. But the point is, at least teachers in primary and secondary schools should be compared when we're dealing with the question. After 1989 we decided to support alternatives, we wanted church and private schools in the Czech Republic. And so we should really get those teachers who once work at a state elementary school or high school, then they move and they cause them to get a place at a private high school or primary school, so they shouldn't have to change their conditions in any way. Which is what's happening right now. Moreover, we know that the quality of these church schools is very high, that they are sought after, that many potential students, interested in studying, remain below the threshold. I know the situation very well in Brno, but also in some other cities. Although different rankings have already disappeared, which gave a pretty good statement of interest in the schools, there were church and some private schools. Plus, it's open to everyone, it's not just for some, so it would be good for those teachers to be seen as teachers for everyone, not for the chosen ones or for some circuit. And above all, to make the situation disappear, that they really feel themselves then as underappreciated as if they were second-class teachers. And believe me, it's also a very bad motivation for future educators, because when they know there's a situation like this, it actually depends where they're going to live, where they're going to get a place, and that the conditions can be very different, it's another nail to that demotivation coffin. [[There's still a lot of noise in a little crowded hall.]] Moreover, I also noticed that in the government's programming statement, there is a promise to address ecclesiastical and private schools. That's right, it's kind of Solomonian in that sense... I could ask if... A school topic deserves...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to keep your voice down so that the Member can make his amendment in peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u80	All parties before the elections promise how important education and education is, so let us pay attention, please. I'm gonna finish this quick. So, really, in the government's programming statement, there's a promise that the government is going to do it. Solomonian is that based on social demand, importance and so on. But we could explore that for the next thousand years, and none of us would really be able to figure that out after that. Finally, I want to make sure that my amendment does not collide, but it is an alternative to Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's amendment. I know about him. We consulted. We both have other sources, so we're actually giving what appears to be better in this and the possibility. I believe that they will both receive the broadest possible support and that this will show the importance of the subject. We all know that we're watching financial movements in the state budget, that the Ministry of Education's budget has been increased, so I'm leaning on that possibility right here, and unlike my colleague, I'm getting it from these sources. But like I said, it's an alternative, it's definitely not against each other. The second amendment concerns the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. On the school committee, I got the impression that the Academy of Sciences has general support, because I have been the guarantor for many years of those prints relating to the AV budget, and I have not noticed the problem. So this amendment is like House document 1807. [[17.30 hours]] It is therefore that in Chapter 398 - The General Treasury Administration, the specific indicator of the Government Budget Reserve of the original amount of CZK 4 838 515 790 reduces by CZK 100,000 and in the chapter... [[There's no microphone. President Pikal apologizes.]] ... in Chapter 361 - Czech Academy of Sciences, the indicator of expenditure on research, development and innovation, including programmes co-financed by foreign programmes, is increased by CZK 100 000 000 with the fact that CZK 80 000 000 will be used to increase wages at the workplaces of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic and CZK 20 000 000 will be used to increase funds for construction events and equipment of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. This increase will be reflected in the relevant chapter indicators in the draft State Budget Act for 2019. On this point, the justification is briefly, first of all, the increase in wages at the Academy of Sciences' workplaces. This is mainly about increasing the wages of young prospective scientists and scientists. The increase in wages in the state sphere does not concern wage increases for public research institutions established by the Czech Academy of Sciences. Wage policy is the responsibility of the management of individual workplaces of the Academy of Sciences and depends in particular on the amount of funds intended to support science on the basis of achieved results, so-called. RVO indicator - Development of research organisations. However, for the chapter of the Academy of Sciences, the annual increase in RVO funds in the approved draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic amounts to only 1.9 percent for 2019. This year-on-year increase is very low compared to fast-growing revenues in the public sector, where it is rising by around 12 percent year-on-year, and with expected inflation growth according to the forecast of the Czech National Bank. The Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic is thus facing wage stagnation, which significantly weakens their competitiveness in the labour market, despite the fact that the share of highly qualified workers in the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic is significantly higher than in other sectors. Moreover, the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic for highly qualified experts competing in the global labour market, where its competitiveness in the field of wages is significantly lower. This development poses a serious threat to the competitiveness of the Czech Academy of Sciences, both at home and internationally, and to the risk of the tide of highly qualified experts abroad or of returning to a time when the earnings of highly qualified researchers were lagging behind a number of professions. We don't want to go back there. To the second part very briefly. The Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic will use the increase on construction and workplace equipment to complete some construction events and purchase the necessary instrumental equipment. These are investments that were already planned for 2018, but due to the budget reduction of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic by 100 million. CZK - that is why I work here too - had to be postponed to 2019, based on the Czech Government Resolution of 6 June 2018 No. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. 206, the introduction of a new discount on fares on trains and buses for seniors, children, students and students, reduced the budget expenditure of the Czech Academy of Sciences chapter by 100 million. CZK in favour of the budget of Chapter 333 - Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. I beg you to support both amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u81	Thank you, too. And I'm sorry about turning it off earlier. Before I invite another speaker, Mr Vácha, I will read the note. We are apologized to Mrs Levová from 17.25 to the end of the day for working reasons, and Minister Dan Ťok from 17 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u82	Thank you for the floor. I will try to be as short as I can, but at first I will take advantage of the Rules of Procedure. I have my 31st wedding anniversary today, so I'd like to say hello to my wife and tell her it's probably gonna take a long time. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Thank you. I would like to sign up for two amendments. The first is under number 1572. It is an amendment that I would like to move about 3 billion. CZK to the chapter of the Ministry of Education, expenditure of regional education and directly managed organizations, on the salaries of teachers in regional education. In fact, the government has promised to increase the salaries of teachers in regional education by 15 percent since September 2018, but this has not happened. He promises it from January 2019. I think those teachers deserve it. So I suggest you give them the money for their paychecks from January 2019. It should be enough to increase by 20 percent. So that was the first amendment. The second amendment is under number 1882 and it is a proposal that has two variants, A and B. In both variants, Chapter 307 of the Ministry of Defence, the cross-cutting indicator of expenditure maintained in the EDS/SMVS programme financing information system, by less than 13 billion, is the variant A, and variant B is about 6.5 billion. The budget for defence of the Czech Republic is currently roughly half as required by NATO, i.e. 2%. And in this draft state budget, the government plans to defend 1.17% of GDP. I'm 13 billion. By increasing, I propose that 1.4 percent of GDP be given in defence. I think it's justified. If you look at yesterday's news, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also warning about the new Russian missile system, so I think it's time we put a little more money into defense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u83	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mrs Langšádlová, who is another member of the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u84	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put forward an amendment with the number 1881. This concerns an increase in expenditure from Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in a specific indicator of regional education expenditure and directly managed organisations by 300 million. CZK, at the expense of Chapter 327 of the Ministry of Transport in a specific indicator, other expenditure associated with the state's transport policy. I propose to strengthen the funds for the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by 300 million. CZK, which should be intended to strengthen media education within development programmes to support civil society. I believe that our youngsters at the first level of primary school should be dedicated to these issues and competences so as to know how to receive information from different communication sources in order to be able to navigate information, in their importance, to distinguish the truth of information, because it is necessary to start very soon with these competences. After all, the Security Information Service report, which talks about misinformation campaigns, shows that it is a competence that we very often underestimate in our society, and I really believe that we should start above all with the youngest generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u85	I, too, thank you, and now please Mr Žáček, Mr Bartoš will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to sign up for document No. 1739 which is the amendment of Jana Černochová, Jakub Janda and my little things. It relates to the re-routing of funds of 6,3 million, which were in the relevant section of Annex No. 9 draft law directed against the Czech Union of Fighters for Freedom, in this form: Association to maintain the legacy of the Czech resistance with an amount of CZK 1,260 000, the Šoa Prague Memorial with an amount of CZK 1,260 000, the Platform of European Memory and Conscience with an amount of CZK 1,260 000, the Association of former political prisoners of the Czech Republic with an amount of CZK 1,260 000. Of course, these changes will be reflected in the chapter of the General Treasury Administration into the social expenditure indicator; compensation; non-profit and similar organisations. Second, redirecting the same amount to the Czechoslovak community of legionary, which would reflect these changes in the chapter General Treasury Administration into the indicator of social expenditure; compensation; non-profit and similar organizations. Let me justify this with the following arguments: The activities of the Czech Freedom Warriors Union, represented by President Jaroslav Vodička, have significantly questioned the original mission, ideals and values of this association in recent years, and thus the reason for support from public budgets. The activities of the association and its chairman are in sharp conflict with its mission. This situation denies the very reason and purpose of the public support. Why the Czechoslovak Legionary Community? The proposal to increase the funds already mentioned is because ČsOL is a dignified bearer of the legacy of legionaries, who were banned and virtually replaced by the Freedom Warriors Union and its members persecuted during the communist period. The activities of this association certainly deserve public support for their activities resembling war veterans. The association brings together veterans of the Czechoslovak foreign armies from the period of the 1st and 2nd World War, members of the domestic resistance from the period of World War II, war veterans of the Army of the Czech Republic, carriers of the certificate of war veteran according to Act No. 170/2002 Coll., their family members, survivors and all supporters who want to be active members of ČsOL and want to contribute to the development and fulfilment of its mission. Why the Association of former political prisoners of the Czech Republic? Because it is a social organization bringing together former political prisoners from the period of communist persecution, to whom the totalitarian regime avenged for their views by imprisonment and slave labor in communist concentration camps. It brings together citizens persecuted and imprisoned not only in the 1950s, but practically until 1989. The activities of the association are undoubtedly important for the preservation of society's memory of the horrors and crimes of the communist regime and therefore deserves the proposed state support. The third institution is the Association to maintain the legacy of the Czech resistance, which was created because of the above-mentioned departure of the Czech Union of Fighters for Freedom from the original mission and values. The purpose of the Association to preserve the legacy of the Czech resistance is to maintain the memory and memory of the heroism of survivors, victims and fighters of the Czech resistance, as well as other persons actively acting against all forms of totalitarianism and dictatorship. Maintaining the legacy of the struggle for independence and freedom of the Czech Republic in the sense of democratic and humanitarian principles of the founders of our state. The foundation of the association was based on the activities of the Czech Freedom Warriors Association Kladno, from 1947, after the abolition of this organization from the decision of the Central Committee of the Czech Freedom Warriors Association headed by the already mentioned President Jaroslav Vodička. The then-placed committee was abolished after long-term criticism, and this is also important for argumenting why to address this situation, after long-term criticism of management for uneconomical handling of funds - by the way, past subsidies were not able to properly report according to the information available - political engagement, undignified representation of the management of the institution. It is worth remembering that in October 2016 the most respected members immediately left the ranks of the Czech Freedom Warriors Union, and most of these figures subsequently joined the newly established Association to preserve the legacy of the Czech resistance and the interest in membership was also expressed by representatives of the second and third generation after the resistance resistances of the first, second and third, who had not shown interest in membership of any associations until this time. To date, the association still operates on the basis of voluntary work without any financial evaluation of members, including bookkeeping, administration of the web and social networks or administrative forces when registering the member base. The branches of the association are led mainly by members of the retirement age as part of their personal leave again without entitlement to any remuneration. The activity of the association is undoubtedly important for maintaining the memory of society on the horrors and crimes of totalitarian regimes and therefore deserves the proposed State aid. The third or another is the Šoa Praha Memorial, a generally beneficial company that was established at the end of 2012 in order to rebuild the Drum Station in a modern center for modern history called the Silence Monument project. The nonprofit company cooperates with the relevant institutions affected by the theme of the Shoa, i.e. the Terezín Initiative, the Holocaust Victims Foundation, the Jewish Museum in Prague, the Post Bellum Foundation and other professional and educational centres. The intention of the petitioners is to use the resources to support projects resembling Holocaust victims, such as: The monument of silence at the Prague-Bubny railway station, and that this infamous historical era should never be forgotten. Since the spread of anti-Semitism is one of the negative phenomena in Europe today, increased support for projects that resemble victims and the horrors of the Holocaust and enlightenment in this area is not symbolic but much more desirable. The last institution is the Platform of European Memory and Conscience, a non-profit international NGO founded in Prague in October 2011, when it was founded by 20 members from 12 EU Member States. The platform currently brings together 57 public and private institutions and organisations from 20 countries, of which 14 EU Member States - Sweden, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Germany, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, of course, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, Romania, Bulgaria, France and some others. Among the main objectives of the Platform for European Memory and Conscience, among others. include raising public awareness of European history and crimes of totalitarian regimes and promoting a broad, pan-European debate on the causes and consequences of totalitarian governance. Its activities contribute to the education of young Evropan on totalitarian regimes through the development of training courses, curriculum, programmes and aids. I would also like to sign in and adopt document No. 1821, which is the amendment of Mrs Jana Černochová, who apologized today on account of her foreign travel, which concerns the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the transfer of funds, of course, to the Ministry of Defence, when she proposes to reduce specific expenditure indicators for contributions to international organisations and money donations to selected institutions abroad, chapter of the State Budget No. 306 - Ministry of Foreign Affairs from CZK 1 546 111 000 to CZK 1 515 916 000, i.e. a reduction of 30 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u87	I will interrupt you, Mr Member, and I would like to ask the House to keep the peace that has been here. I know there's a little more of us here right now, but I'm asking for peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u88	Thank you. So a reduction of CZK 30,195,000. Second, it also proposes to increase the expenditure of Chapter 307 of the Ministry of Defence, the expenditure block "containment of defence of the Czech Republic by the forces of the Army of the Czech Republic," the expenditure circuit to ensure the activity and development of combat forces, the forces of combat support and combat security, I will not read the zeros, by an amount of CZK 30,195 000. [[PVS 501 000 000 0]] [[It's noisy in the hall.]] Reason. One of the sources for strengthening the Ministry of Defence's budget should be an amount of CZK 30,195 000 from budget chapter No. 306 Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is the amount corresponding to the annual contribution of the Czech Republic to the UN Organization for Education, Science and Culture - UNESCO. UNESCO has repeatedly become the subject of politicization in recent years, and its name and credit have been used to spread anti-Israeli propaganda. In its resolutions, the Executive Council of UNESCO repeatedly denied Jewish but also Christian ties to the sacred places of Jerusalem. Similar position subsequently -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u89	Ambassador, I will interrupt you again, and I would like to ask the Members not to sit in their benches and noisy, or at least have fun without disturbing the speaker. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u90	Thank you. A similar position was subsequently adopted by the UNESCO World Heritage Committee, and it is therefore more than obvious that this organisation, through its bodies, goes beyond an impartial and peaceful supranational authority that should not interfere with political issues. [[17.50 hours]] The reduction in the MFA chapter for this amount is fully in line with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 23 May 2017 by which Members called on the Government to suspend the payment of the member contributions to this organisation due to its politicalisation and anti-Israeli rhetoric. Given that the government has not yet taken this step, and given the fact that the position of UNESCO in relation to the State of Israel cannot be considered neutral, the Czech Republic should express by this gesture more than symbolic support for this country, with which it has a historically strong alliance. The proposed increase in Chapter 307 of the Ministry of Defence, together with other funds, would allow at least partially closer to the original objective of issuing 1,4 percent of GDP in defence in 2020, while the planned modernisation of the Czech Army could take place. The last document to which I apply for the absent Member Jana Černochová is document number 1822, where it proposes, first, to reduce the item of compensation for fare discounts in Chapter 327 of the Ministry of Transport by CZK 2 000 000 000. Secondly, the grant item for supported energy sources in Chapter 322 of the Ministry of Industry and Trade by CZK 1 000 000 000. [[LOCAL]] Third, support for the agrifood complex - subsidy of the agrikomplex - support programmes in Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture by CZK 1 000 000 000. On the contrary, in Chapter 307 it proposes to increase the expenditure block of security of the Czech Republic by the forces of the Czech Army, the expenditure circuit to ensure the activity and development of combat forces, the forces of combat support and combat security, by CZK 4,000,000. With this justification: According to the recommendation of the North Atlantic Alliance, the Czech Republic should issue 2% of gross domestic product per year in defence, and despite economic growth, it has been approaching this goal very slowly in recent years, so there is reasonable doubt whether it can achieve it by 2024 or 2025. The promise to do so has been made repeatedly by representatives of the Czech Republic on the ground of the North Atlantic Alliance. The presidents of the coalition parties of the previous government, in which there were ANO and ČSSD movements, signed an agreement that in 2020 the Ministry of Defence's budget would reach 1.4 percent of GDP. This promise has also been postponed and is now to be achieved in 2021. Today, when information from the Army of the Czech Republic is heard that budget growth is slower than expected to accumulate projects, it is already missing and will be missing in the coming years for the desired modernisation of up to tens of billions of crowns, the modernisation of our armed forces is crucial due to the unstable international security situation to ensure the defence of the Czech Republic and its credibility in the eyes of the allies in the North Atlantic alliance. Membership in this organization brings an unprecedented degree of security and prosperity to the Czech Republic. The proposed increase in Chapter 307 of the Ministry of Defence would allow the original target to be close to 1,4% of GDP in defence in 2020, while the planned modernisation of the Czech Army could take place. The means to increase the chapter of the Ministry of Defence can be found e.g. in unnecessarily high state subsidies and compensation for fares. Thank you for your attention, virtually. for being careless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u91	Thank you, too. I now have an update on Mr Kubíček's procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to put a procedural proposal on behalf of the two ANO and ČSSD MEPs at the meeting and voting after 19 and 21 o'clock with an addition that only until this point has been discussed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u93	Thank you for the suggestion, I believe he was clear to everyone. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R., I'll check you all out, 'cause there were some note cards and a pretty big move, so please sign up with your cards again. For those who are coming, I will repeat that we will vote on whether we will negotiate and vote on this programme point even after 19 and 21 hours. Looks like the number's been pretty stable for us. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 72, 127 Members and Members were enrolled, for 114, against 2. The proposal has been adopted, so we will discuss this point even after 19 and 21 o'clock. And I am asking another speaker, Mr Ivan Bartoš, after whom Mr Gazdík is preferred. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for the House document under number 1890. It is an amendment that concerns both regional and rural development and education. A number of cities and municipalities that provide for the operation, maintenance and repair of primary and kindergarten schools are struggling with a lack of funds for investment actions for improving, possibly extending the space for teaching and activities related to it. In these municipalities, schools in buildings, sometimes from the nineteenth century, often require repairs, and financial claims often go beyond the budgets of individual municipalities. Although higher tax collection and the division of the RUD increase the higher income, at the same time, these municipalities have increasing operating costs in other areas. This proposal of mine didn't fall out of the clear sky. The public administration and regional development committee was contacted by individual municipalities with the fact that there is a title or programme under the Ministry of Finance, through which municipalities can ask for money for the reconstruction and repair of these schools and kindergartens. Last year, however, this programme was not filled with money, so they, even if they were interested, and we have a number of those requests already on the committee, could not draw on this program. I would just like to add, it was said as arguments in the public space, subsidies from European funds cannot be drawn for the purposes of school repair and maintenance, because they are linked to indicators of growth in the number of pupils, and this is essentially not something that rural schools can guarantee in the long term. This amendment therefore envisages the fulfilment of the unused subsidy title 298220, the action financed by the decision of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament and the Government of the Czech Republic, and there is the specific title of support for the development and renewal of the regional education base. So I'm actually going to record this proposal, which has been discussed and approved by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, so there's probably some shit going on there, so the current version contains a minor error, and so I'm going to read here specifically how it's supposed to be right, or so. Then we'll fix it in the system. The Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2019 is amended as follows: the expenditure of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration is reduced by a total of 300 million. CZK, in the following specific indicators: funds to cover the impact of increased occupancy of posts of CZK 200 million. CZK and expenditure on the financing of the EU programme by an amount of CZK 100 million. Crowns. Together, it's the 300 miles. On the other hand, the expenditure of Chapter 398 of the VPS of the Ministry of Finance is increased in the relevant indicators by the grant title 298220 - the event financed by the decision of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament and the Government of the Czech Republic by an amount of 300 million. So it's actually a transfer, virtually. fulfillment within the VPS of this specific programme, where the municipalities can then ask for money according to specific rules for the reconstruction, renewal or maintenance. I thank you for your time and any support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u95	Thank you, too. Now, therefore, with priority rights, Mr Gazdík. Before I read the note, Mr Kopřiva apologizes from 18 o'clock to the end of the day for health reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u96	Have a good evening. Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I hereby subscribe to my amendment put into the system under number 1883. I propose to increase the amount of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in Chapter 333 to support youth activities, specifically for non-profit youth organisations associated with the Czech Council of Children and Youth, by 20 million. Crowns. This is the amount that I propose reciprocally to reduce Chapter 396 of the State Debt. [[18.00 hours]] Reason. Youth organisations of a variety of orientations are very little funded by the state in the long run, although it is undoubtedly an investment in the future of the country and although it is the most effective money spent in raising a child, because it is voluntary activity and everyone who works in those organisations does it free of charge. So that's 20 miles. CZK is much better used than many European funds or other subsidies for youth work. I note that the Education Committee has approved this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u97	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mr Koten, Mr Bartoň will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u98	Mr President, honourable Members, gentlemen, government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a brief comment on the matter which was accompanied by the discussion of the various chapters of the state budget in the committees this year. It has been discussing subsidies to non-state non-profit organisations within the scope of the various budget chapters. If I have been informed, this model has not yet been applied in recent years. The Committee on Security thus came to discuss these subsidies within the scope of the Justice and Home Affairs Department. The Security Committee has made use of this opportunity, and many of our members are now quite detailed in this matter and are looking for further evidence, and even though we have not yet completed our negotiations on this matter, we have managed to make several important and, after most of the worrying findings. Without wanting to be in any way addressed right now, because we do not yet have the resolution arrived, the main point is that the state consciously points out surprisingly large funds to organisations, which, in turn, harm the state completely consciously for them. I therefore want to thank the Committee on Budgets for this step. He allowed us to focus on matters that evidently long ago required our attention. I shall then inform the President of the Committee on Budgets of the outcome of the discussions of the Security Committee. Of course, the fact that we have not yet discussed this matter does not now prevent further discussion of the draft state budget for next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u99	Thank you, too. I have a note here. Minister Toman apologizes to us from 18:00 to the end of the day for work reasons. Mr Stanjura has now applied with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u100	Thank you for the floor. I often read in the media that the state budget is the law of the year. I don't quite believe it. Nor do I attach the importance of this law so high that it would be the law of the year. Depending on how many members of the government are here and how many members of the Chamber of Deputies are here and how much time we are discussing this, it's more uninterested of the year than the law of the year. I really don't think it's normal for three ministers to sit here on the budget. It really isn't normal for us to end the debate sometime at 22 or 23 o'clock. I've never seen that before. The government coalition can't organise negotiations in such a way as to take place, for example. second reading of the state budget in a dignified atmosphere. It used to be a good habit that the entire day was set aside for second reading because it is repeated regularly that, particularly at second reading, individual Members logically defend their amendments. I don't know how many performers are gonna be. Maybe 40, maybe more. Rarely do so many debaters speak to a few laws, and you have happily chosen a hearing after 19th and 21st hours. And after, I don't know, 12, 13, 14 hours of negotiations, we have a very serious face that we are arguing here and we are trying to convince our colleagues and colleagues of the possible support for our amendments. It's really undignified. It's a shame. I wonder to the Minister that she did not make it possible for us to actually have the whole day, as it used to be, because it is not surprising. There's no obstruction. If I have watched the speeches to date, it has indeed been factual and logical for Members and Members to justify their amendments, since we have already given the basic parameters of the budget with which we will do nothing at all. I'll wait for my main performance to introduce you to the 40.5 billion. the savings that we found there, and that's not nearly all the savings, we put a limit on 40 billion to show that relatively simply the government could have put forward a balanced budget proposal, so it's not the total list of the 40.5 billion. And we could definitely find more. And the other amendments, the proposals from our club, are already moving on in the chapters. That means, apart from the savings, we're still proposing to move. I have taken advantage of only one priority right to apply to House document 1913. It is the amendment of my fellow Member, Mrs Němcová, who is on a service basis with the delegation of our House in the Council of Europe, so she cannot personally participate in the second reading. I will make her amendment on behalf of her, and I will try to convince you that it would be good for you to support the proposal at third reading. It is not a large sum, it is 15 miles. Crowns. Members of the electoral committee know that when we repeatedly discuss the issue of the CTK, we encounter the issue of digitization of the image archive of the CTK. In order to actually be able to do that, and I think it's in the interest of the state, we need to release funds for that. If we don't release them, the digitization is moving extremely slowly and, of course, the image material is being degraded. We propose to reduce the expenditure of Chapter 396 State debt in the expenditure indicator by a government debt service of 15 million. I have good news for the Minister: in this comprehensive amendment we propose to strengthen this chapter by 40.5 billion. Crowns. So I'm sure the money won't be missing. And then we were actually looking for a chapter, and I hope we found it well, Madam Secretary, because giving money to the Czech News Agency is not so easy to process, because it is actually a private institution. So we proposed to increase the expenditure of Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture, because there is undoubtedly the issue of the Czech News Agency, in the expense block cultural services, in the promotion of live art, in the 505002 - cultural activities, in the section of other cultural matters. And this paragraph is going to increase by 15 miles. with the fact that this amount will be assigned to activities related to the digitization of the photographic archive of the Czech Press Office. This proposal aims to speed up the accessibility of these photographs from Czech and Czechoslovak history to the general public. From the debate on the Election Committee - I see the President of the Election Committee here - I felt that this proposal had the support of the members of the Election Committee, so I ask you, on behalf of Mrs Němcová, who is also a member of the Election Committee, to support this proposal at third reading. The longer gig that I'm gonna justify the savings I found, I'm not gonna use priority rights to do that, I'm gonna wait for that. I don't know when it's gonna be, but I find it really undignified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u101	Thank you, too, and I'll meet you there. And now please Mr Bartona, Mr Hrnčíř will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u102	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, there are few issues on which we agree across all sides. One of these topics is improving the state of education and, in particular, improving the status of the teacher's salary assessment. Both the Chamber of Deputies and the Government had one of the priorities to increase teacher salaries. Unfortunately, we do not agree on which teachers' salaries, which teachers' salaries, and so it happened that in the draft budget presented there is an increase in teacher salaries only in regional education. Teachers' salaries in higher education have been forgotten. And while universities are autonomous, they have their own budgets, they have their own wage policy, so on the salaries of teachers, to the item from which universities can increase the salaries of teachers in universities, they only go 717 miles. CZK, which corresponds to about 5%. Therefore, universities are able to raise teacher salaries to roughly inflation levels. [[18.10 hours]] That is why I am reporting to the 1926 House of Press, in which I propose to increase university incomes by 773 miles. Kč. It's a compromise proposal. To raise the salaries of teachers in higher education, this chapter would have to be increased by 1.3 billion. Kč. I focused mainly on increasing the salaries of professional assistants. At present, university assistants in the tariff component have 55 percent of the average wage. I consider this to be a very low number, which is why I propose moving to this chapter for the benefit of universities. At the same time, I would like to sign up for another amendment, House document 1928. Here I propose moving in the chapter sport and the money stays in the chapter sport. The point is that few items in our budget have such a significant percentage increase as sport. I'm here focused on targeting this money. When we take a budget in the field of sport, so much more goes to the RPRE programmes, to the TALENT programmes than, for example, to MY CLUB programmes. I'll be more specific. From the program MY CLUB can draw from any club that deals with the leisure sport of children. It is about 3/4 million children, so these activities are less than the TALENT and the REPRE, i.e. the pursuit of performance, the pursuit of medals, where about 30,000 athletes are sported, so these 30,000 athletes have a much larger amount of public money than 3/4 million free-time sports children for fun. For this reason, I propose a transfer, from the national representation, where these are the RPRE and TALENT programmes, and this item will be increased by 547 million in the budget of 2019 compared to the 2018 budget, so I suggest that this amount should be directed precisely into the general sport activity in favour of leisure sports for children and young people. And I'm sure if someone has kids in a sports club, you know that a large part of their costs are often up to 100 percent of your own pocket, that from this support, this support is still so low that it doesn't relieve children's parents to be able to give their children sports to ordinary leisure activities. I'm not talking about talent, or I'm not talking about the pursuit of performance, the pursuit of medals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u103	Thank you, too, and please, Mr Hrnčíř. Mr. Španěl will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for Amendment 1569. This is an amendment in which, in the indicator of Chapter 333, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, specifically in regional education expenditure and directly managed organisations, I move a sum of 2 billion. CZK in favour of other expenses for security of the resort. The purpose of my amendment is to transfer part of the funds that are intended for inclusion to a chapter of special education, where they will be far more beneficial for the education and education of citizens of the Czech Republic, as I believe that the requirement of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to cover the amount of inclusion is oversized. I would also like to sign up for the amendment under number 1725. This is an amendment when, in Chapter 304, the Office of the Government in the indicator of expenditure associated with the advisory bodies of the Government, I move an amount of 5 million. CZK to Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as a contribution to the employment of people with disabilities. The purpose of this amendment is to transfer funds from the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, which are intended to promote equal opportunities for women and men, to the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the Czech Republic, which is intended to promote employment of citizens with disabilities. The inclusion of people with disabilities in the work process will enable them to be better integrated into our society and will offer them the opportunity to develop their skills and skills while helping to strengthen their perception that they can actively participate in the development of our society. Employment promotion is more appropriate than simply increasing the benefits they receive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u105	Thank you, too. Please, Mr Španěl, Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for my amendment under the beautiful and hopefully lucky number of 1777. Before I read you a brief explanatory report, I will just say in my own words that I am quite disappointed that in the impending or already ongoing crust crisis, a budget was cut to support the forestry sector of Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture by 20 million, and so I am desperately trying at least 20 miles. Return there from the General Treasury, from Chapter 398, which is the government's budget reserve. Due to the scale of calamity, the fall in prices of wood, the sales crisis, limited mining, transport and processing capacities and the minimum possibilities of defence of smaller forest owners, it is absolutely necessary, in the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, to take quite extraordinary measures and allocate increased funds to combat the calamity. At the same time, a crisis management plan is being prepared for disaster control at national and regional level. That's probably why we're cutting the budget, isn't it? Compared to previous years, what was the volume of bark mining, e.g. In 2016, it was only 4 million. m3, in 2017 already about 6 mil. m3 and this year an enormous increase in mining of 10-12 million is expected. m3. It is quite clear that there is a barking calamity in our Republic that needs to be combated effectively. The increase in the Ministry's forestry budget will contribute, I hope, to the elimination of calamity. Thank you if you support my amendment and we will really fight the crust.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u107	Thank you. Before I give the floor to another speaker, I have a note again. Mr Bartoš apologizes to us for working reasons from 18.45 until the end of today's meeting. Mr. Ferjenčík, please. Mrs Krutáková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for a number of my amendments, which I have uploaded into the system. Specifically, I am signing up for Amendment 1921, this is the proposal that I have already put on the Committee on Budgets and concerns the issue of funding non-state schools. I present it with five other colleagues, Věra Kovářová, Zbyněk Stanjura, Radek Rozvoral, Marek Výborný and Vlastimil Válek. We propose to increase the expenditure of Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education by an amount of CZK 1 049 500 000 compared to the chapter of the State Debt. [[18.20 hours]] The reason for this is that wage increases in non-state schools are significantly delayed after wage increases in public schools, and we fear that if there is no allocation of funds for the development programme of the Ministry of Education to straighten this injustice, the functioning of these schools may be at risk. I stress that in a number of cases these are schools that do not collect any tuition fees, such as schools that prepare students for social or health work, and it is really unfair that they already have salaries well below the level, such as these specific schools, below the level of state schools. I think it is appropriate to deal with this problem when there is an increase of 15% in education, so those non-state schools really have a problem keeping staff. In substance, the same amendment with the only difference that instead of billions, half a billion are being moved, I am loading and signing up to it as House document 1922. I serve it again with my colleague Kovářová and colleagues Stanjura, Rozvoral, Výborný and Válek. It's the exact same thing, only half the size. We're trying to get something through. So if it's not acceptable in the House to settle the salaries completely, then at least, the increase, half. So this is a proposal in the field of education. Furthermore, I am reading the draft accompanying resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2019 on transparent disclosure of expenditure by the State. The resolution reads: The Chamber of Deputies supports the government in developing a user-friendly system that allows the publication of revenue and expenditure on the Internet in an open format. The objective of developing this so-called clicking budget should be to show data up to the level of individual specific expenditure of the State budget, including the identification of the beneficiary, except for those whose publication of the special regulation prohibits. This is a House document 1938. So I'm applying to this document. I also report to House Document No 1941. This is a transfer of money from the chapter of the Office of the President of the Republic of the Czech Republic amounting to CZK 1 910 000 into the item or indicators of the Office for Personal Data Protection. The reasoning is as follows. The Office of the President of the Republic has calculated the costs it has for legal services and consulting and consulting activities. In the past, there has been a suspicion that some of these expenditures by the Office of the President of the Republic and, above all, by its contribution organisations, namely the organisation that takes care of the Lánská branch, were not at all transparent in this area. So I propose to reduce the budget of the President's Office in this area adequately and increase this in terms of improving access to information. Today, we voted on the transfer of new competences to the Office for Personal Data Protection, which is also to be renegotiated by decision-making in disputes about information. I think it's a good start to add some money to this agenda. In addition, it has something to do with the Prague Castle, because unfortunately Prague Castle is one of the institutions that behaves very badly in relation to access to information, in relation to information to the public. I'm the one who's been asking for information. In my opinion, the Castle refused to give me the information illegally. He charged for a perfectly standard operation of CZK 1,600, which is simply obstructive delay. Moreover, he does not count on the revenue he calls for providing information in his budget at all. So, in part, the reduction would be offset by those unduly levied charges. So it seems logical to me when the hrad doesn't provide information, so reduce his income and put it on the contrary to the office that has new access to information to provide. And the last amendment I am proposing to is the House document under number 1942. This is a comprehensive package of austerity measures. We do not agree with the deficit budget, where there is a deficit of CZK 40 billion, and we show the government that we can look for the savings and find them there. We have identified around 11 billion savings, whether it is in the area of the fare discounts, which we think can be dealt with better, for example, through VAT reductions, which we have voted today, or through a direct subsidy to the Railway Infrastructure Administration and a reduction in the fee for the vehicle-km in order to make it cheaper to operate the rail lines. We see the problems with the control activity, because today, particularly in the field of bus transport, sellers can physically print tickets and collect money for it, which does not strike us as an appropriate system. So there's room for savings. We see space for savings in the untethered systemization of places where expenditure was cut off on the one hand, on the other hand, they set aside for the reserve. We see savings in the Ministry of Defence, where these expenses are growing extremely, and in our opinion, the Ministry is not prepared for this. Those contracts will not be competitive, or if they compete, there is a risk that the prices will be excessive. So we're proposing a savings of 1.8 billion in total. We see other sources of savings in the area of subsidies to agri complexes. That's about 11 billion in total. It's kind of a government guide where he can save money. We also think that this is probably the government's decision to save, but we are showing that it is possible, and we are also defending some of the amendments that we are proposing with this amount. We show that when we propose to increase expenditure somewhere, it has a budgetary envelope in the savings proposals that we are presenting. So I am once again applying to House document 1942. Thank you for supporting these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u109	I, too, thank you, and now, please, Madame... No, I'm sorry, Mr. Válek came forward with a point of fact, so please, Congressman, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u110	Thank you. I apologise for delaying this, but I very much wanted to support this proposal by Mr Ferjenčík through Mr President and draw attention to one thing. I think we have an exclusive situation in the Czech Republic, unlike many Western countries, and that is that many high-quality non-state private schools are still without tuition. And I wouldn't want that situation to change. Because if we do not accept this proposal, it will mean that these schools will start introducing tuition fees, which will basically lead to us eliminating gifted students from families who cannot afford it. And I would consider that a big mistake. That is why, of course, I strongly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u111	I thank you for the time being and I therefore ask Mrs Krutáková to prepare Mr Čižinský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u112	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me to introduce you to two amendments at the same time. The first amendment to Parliament's press is 287, led in the system as House document 1866. This proposal proposes to increase the expenditure of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury in a specific indicator of other expenditure under the land treatment item by an amount of 200 million. CZK and, on the other hand, reduce the expenditure of Chapter 315 of the Ministry of the Environment by that amount. Land treatment solves complex water and wind erosion in the landscape, flood control measures, water management in particular in the area of reducing the adverse effects of flooding and drought, dealing with drainage conditions in the landscape, road network, land access and landscape penetration, territorial systems of ecological stability, planting of greenery. This is followed by implementation projects in land adjustments, which are directly linked to the drawing of European subsidies. The same amount of funds is allocated from the state budget for land-use adjustments in the long term, which we want to increase by doing so. In the case of land treatment, it is therefore an element that contributes to the protection of the environment and to its improvement, thus serving the interests of nature, which is why we propose the transfer of these funds from the chapter of the Ministry of Environment. The second amendment, my and my colleague Věra Kovářová, to the House press number 287, is led as House Document 1919 and proposes to increase the expenditure of Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture in a specific indicator of other expenditure on the state policy of the resort, inspection, control and research activities in order to increase the allocation in grant title 129D66 maintenance and restoration of cultural and rural elements by 200 million. Kč. It is proposed to obtain this amount by reducing expenditure from Chapter 312 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from Chapter 312 of the Ministry of Finance, 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, 314 of the Ministry of Interior, 329 of Agriculture, 336 of the Ministry of Justice and 396 of State Debt. Closer are these amounts described in the system. The Czech countryside contains a number of monuments of value, which are not officially declared cultural monuments under the State Heritage Act. They're so-called unproclaimed monuments. These are mainly churches, chapels, or crosses and other small historical buildings in the countryside, which illustrate the color of the countryside and this belongs to them. During the last programming period of the European Union, funds were earmarked for the repair of these buildings through a European subsidy under the Rural Development Programme. This support from the European Union funds is not negotiated for the current programming period 2014 to 2020. In the current period, the Ministry of Agriculture has set up its own grant programme of 129660 to support the restoration of undisclosed monuments and the restoration of cultural and rural elements in the amount of approximately 500 million. CZK a year. In 2018, the Ministry of Agriculture suddenly reduced the amount of funding for this subsidy programme from the previous approximately 500 million. CZK 125 mil. Kč. This reduction in funding resulted in a declaration that this subsidy programme will be cancelled from next year. For the above reasons, we therefore propose to increase the allocation of the grant title 129D66 maintenance and restoration of cultural and rural elements. So once again, I want to subscribe to the House documents 1866 and 1919. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u113	Thank you, too. Before I invite another speaker, Mr Baxa is here with a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u114	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like very briefly to support the proposal put forward by Mrs Krutáková here in the part concerning rural cultural monuments. I recently intersected Minister Toman on this matter, and in reply to my intervention, the alarming fact was, in my opinion, that although the subsidy programme within the Ministry of Agriculture will remain preserved, his allocation will be in the order of several tens of millions of crowns. And perhaps it should be mentioned here before the departure of Minister Staněk from the Chamber that during the period when the Ministry of Agriculture's subsidy programme was about half a billion crowns and it added over 700 miles. CZK in the monument programmes of the Ministry of Culture, so the restoration of monuments with significant cultural value, whether directly declared or in the case of the Ministry of Agriculture programme, was aimed at more than one billion crowns. Given that the Ministry of Culture has not increased funds for conservation care, or the increase has been in the order of a few tens of millions of crowns, and the Ministry of Agriculture has actually cut this subsidy programme completely, so we are facing a situation where the restoration of monumently valuable buildings, in this way I would name it collectively, should be dramatically smaller from next year's state budget. And I don't think that's really good news. Especially about a valuable fund in the Czech countryside. And if we are serious about the preservation of the cultural landscape of the Czech countryside, then losing money on what is an integral part of it is not really a signal for which the government would be praised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u115	Thank you for your time, and now I am asking Mr Čižinský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u116	Thank you for the floor. I am simply actually joining the two previous speakers through the President that I would also support more money for the cultural works in the countryside. I just remind you that Mr Marian Jurečka here was then the Minister of Agriculture who introduced it and put the large funds there, and they were well used. But now, about the amendments I want to apply to. It's printing 1728 and 1729. It is also about the care of nature and landscape. I suggest we move 20 miles. CZK, namely the increase of funds under the Landscape Care Programme and take it from the Ministry of Environment from the injury chapter for the difficulty of farming. And the other 1729 is also 20 miles away. CZK and it is from the government's budget reserve also to the Landscape Care Program. It's actually a 40-mile transfer. Crowns. These are the funds that are necessary for the care of protected areas which are not protected at national level. It's actually these little mowings, like orchid bows, pool renewals, alley renewals, draw plantings, scythes and the like. They're small resources, but they're really missing 50 miles in this chapter right now. The koruna and my two amendments have an ambition to address this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u117	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mr Válek Member, Mr Skopeček will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u118	I don't think that's allowed. I apologize in advance. There aren't enough of you here. I'll take my chances with my colleague Vácha, too. So, Šimon, Mikuláš isn't going to be here today. We're not going to be on the budget until Saturday. The devil must be in parliament. And now I would move on to my amendments or to my proposals on the budget. I'm reporting to three, 1802, 1803, 1804. 1802 and 1803 are optional. I suggest we increase the budget of the Health Research Agency. This agency mainly deals with applied medical research. I very much appreciate the fact that the Minister of Health has increased the budgets of medical faculties, or the government, and there will be a greater acceptance of students and perhaps higher salaries for teachers who teach them. However, young doctors who apply for research projects also need to be supported. And the Health Research Agency doesn't have a separate law. Her budget is limited and does not have a chapter to support young doctors who would like to do research and who could later be assistants and educators at medical faculties. If we have more students at medical schools, we'll need more teachers, more trainers. We need to adapt the whole system to this, and therefore my two alternative amendments, when the budget of this agency proposes to be increased by 50 or 100 million, respectively. It's two choices. [[18.40 hours]] The third amendment has number 1804. It is a small increase of 20 million, which I propose for the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and for the Ministry of Agriculture, in support of the celiatry project. The problems of celiatics, but generally of all children who have different types of food allergies, relate mainly to their diet, and this dominantly dietary in school dining rooms, which needs to be supported. From my point of view, it has three separate points. The first point is generally support for foods that will contain a low amount of allergens, and the development of these foods. We have the advantage that one of our agricultural research institutes has been involved in the development of gluten-free wheat, gluten-free cereals for several years. I think this research needs to be supported. This is completely in the Ministry of Agriculture. From my point of view, we would need to support these types of food, local food, low-level allergen foods, so that they can be best subsidized into schools. The second ministry involved is the Ministry of Education, which creates the well-known food basket, which unfortunately deals with the quality of food, but mainly deals with the energetic value of food, which is a mistake, because many countries in Europe, but not only in Europe, allow schools to cook from local food, from food from nearby areas, places where the school is based to make food varied and for children low-cost. And that's what we should support, and that's what the Ministry of Education needs to do by adjusting the food basket. I would like to support this amount of development of material for schools, according to which they could well cook these low-energy gluten-free lunches, lactose-free and other allergens. There's no cook, there's no methodical procedure, and there's no methodical instruction for these schools. Of course, the third ministry, which must be involved, which I do not propose to increase the budget, for which I apologize to the Minister, is the Ministry of Health, because little is valid, what healthy nutrition should look like, is in the Gesture of the Ministry of Health. Only the cooperation of these three ministries can lead, as a result, to lunches for celiatics, for children with lactose intolerance, but generally for children with food allergies in schools. We need to realise that these children are currently about 10 percent, but that is just the tip of the iceberg. There's a much bigger percentage of them. I think the colleagues of the doctors who are here would confirm that. Either they know from their own practice or they're dealing with it directly. Professor Špičák is not here, as a gastroenterologist would say I'm right. I would like to say that the second proposal is not a large increase in the budget, and I hope that the Members will support it. I'm ending by inviting you to a seminar that focuses on the celiac that the Health and Agricultural Committee is holding together. He'll be next week, and I'll invite you all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u119	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to Mr Skopečka, I shall read one apology. Mr Mikuláš Peksa apologizes to us for working reasons from 18.45 probably until the end of the day. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u120	Thank you for the floor. I am glad that I have also gotten to that word in the discussion of the most important law of the year, which is not entirely good for those diminutive ranks of the Chamber of Deputies and behind me and the governments, but for the exceptions that sit here today. Madam Secretary's gotta do it. She's got to sit here. [[finance]] I would like to sign up for several amendments, which, however, have been uploaded to the system under two figures. It's 1933 and 1934. I'll just introduce them briefly. These are savings, it's got to be said about the beginning. I think that if something needs a second-reading budget, it's to show that there are expenses that can be lower and that we can achieve a balanced budget. The first amendment is the effort in Chapter 312 of the Ministry of Finance to reduce the expenditure on the security of the tasks of the Financial Administration by half a billion, as well as in the same chapter to reduce expenditure on the assurance of the fulfilment of the tasks of the central authority by an amount of half a billion, and to transfer this money to the Chapter of the State Debt with a specific indicator of the operation of the sovereign debt. I think that the Ministry of Finance should ensure more efficient tax collection, not through continuous budget increases, to institutions that provide control and selection, but by a significant simplification of the tax system and by reducing tax burdens. The Ministry of Finance should set an example in efficient management for other ministries and should not increase expenditure beyond wage growth again during economic growth. In my opinion, saving measures should correspond to a reduction in the number of employees. This is the first amendment under number 1933. Another amendment, which was also in the system under number 1933, is an amendment to reduce the expenditure of Chapter 309 of the Ombudsman's Office. I suggest we cut our salaries by 10 million. CZK and also these appropriations are directed to Chapter 396 State debt, government debt service. I think that the work of the Ombudsman's Office duplicates the activities of institutions primarily intended for this purpose. It is therefore not possible for a functioning democratic society with an advanced legal system to continue to increase the number of employees of this office and to further increase the amount of appropriations paid for their salaries. The number of employees of the Office should be reduced and fixed costs should be saved as a result of this reduction. The increase in capital expenditure in order to increase the number of office posts points to the likely future increase in office staff. For the reasons described above, no such capital investment is currently needed. That was the second amendment under number 1933. The third is the effort to save spending in Chapter 304 of the Office of the Government, where I propose to reduce the expenditure associated with the activities of the advisory bodies of the Government by 20 million. Crowns. Even these 20 miles. I propose to move state debt to the expenditure of Chapter 396 in a specific indicator of government debt service. And the second savings in Chapter 304 of the Office of the Government is my attempt to reduce non-investment transfers to non-profit and similar organizations by an amount of 40 million. Crowns. When we look at the trend in expenditure in the area of advisory bodies, it has grown in the draft budget for 2019. In my opinion, the Office of the Government should also take care of responsible management and, at a time of stable economic growth, try to reduce expenditure effectively and not increase it. Furthermore, in my view, it is appropriate to reduce the support for non-profit organisations from the Office of the Government, particularly those who do not orient themselves, and I would like to stress this, to provide social services to disabled people, seniors or socially disadvantaged children. That was the third proposal in the system under number 1933. Now I come to the amendments that are in the system under number 1934, which I also formally apply to here. The first is an effort to cut by 1 billion. CZK expenditure of Chapter 315 of the Ministry of the Environment, in the expenditure block climate protection. Here I think it must be said that environmental care is certainly a worthy thing, but in my opinion it does not make sense to increase these funds by 1 billion. CZK compared to the previous period at a time when it is necessary to get the budget balanced and think of worse times. Moreover, a slightly higher revenue is assumed from the sale of emission allowances, and as I say, I do not see a meaningful increase in this chapter. Once again, of course, at the expense of the chapter of the Ministry of the Environment, I propose to strengthen Chapter 396 State debt in a specific indicator of government debt service. The second expenditure, which I propose to reduce, is in Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture expenditure block other expenditure on the Ministry's state policy, inspection, control and research activities, by an amount of 1 billion. CZK, once again to strengthen the chapter of the State Debt, the service of the state debt. And as in previous cases, I think it's an attempt to cut the Ministry of Agriculture by 1 billion. meaningful because it's a comparison with last year. Although the Chamber of Deputies would approve this amendment, even in this chapter, although smaller, but there is an increase, and I do not think that this agenda needs to grow further. [[18.50 hours]] The last amendment under number 1934, as my amendments are in the system, is an effort to reduce expenditure in Chapter 322 of the Ministry of Industry and Trade by 2 million. CZK, in the area of business support. I think it is to support business with other ways, namely low taxes and lower administrative burdens, which our entrepreneurs must encounter. Any aid through the state budget merely distorts the market environment, because in order to subsidize an entrepreneur or business group, we first need to raise additional money from other entrepreneurs or raise money for that support. In my opinion, the state cannot, as is often shown, find effective business projects that would have succeeded in a free market environment without its support, and thanks to these interventions, market inefficiency is growing. Some business entities gain an incorrect market advantage over those on which the state, in turn, we politicians will not show that they are the ones who are supposed to receive the subsidy. So that was my last amendment. All of these proposals are intended not to raise additional items or add others, but rather to save ambition. This is in line with what I have been saying all along, namely that we should have a balanced budget at a time of economic growth. I will still apply to one amendment which, however, has been prepared and whose spiritual father is my colleague Kupka, and it is an increase in the resources to build a network of schools in a ring, especially in the ring around Prague, where we Central Bohemia feel that the high population increase cannot be financed by municipalities, the necessary infrastructure construction, including schools. Indeed, population growth is enormous in some municipalities. I think it is good for the state to build adequate infrastructure in these places and municipalities so that education can be provided there. This is the only amendment within which I want to add some items. Otherwise, as I say, these were amendments aimed at saving taxpayers' money and showing that we can manage a balanced budget in the Czech Republic at a time of growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u121	Thank you, too. I now ask Mrs Kozlová to prepare Mr Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u122	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I report to the amendment to the press 287 to the state budget, which is recorded under 1837 in the system. I have decided to table an amendment increasing the means to support young people. Why? On 12 May 2014, the Government of the Czech Republic discussed and approved the draft strategic document Concept of Youth Support for the period 2014 to 2020 of the Czech Republic, which sets out the strategic objectives of state policy in relation to youth. Furthermore, the Government of the Czech Republic approved on 27 June 2016 material Concept of Sport Support 2016 to 2025. In its horizontal priorities, it addresses, among other things, how to stop the decline in the physical fitness of children and young people and the mobility of children and youth. The promotion of a healthy lifestyle for children and young people is possible not only through massively sponsored sports teams, but also has great potential in the work of youth organisations, which naturally support a healthy lifestyle. These are various tourist sections, scouts and other organizations. Moreover, they do not only develop physical health, but also significantly help social inclusion and youth education. But these organizations also have problems - such as lack of background. Therefore, the Ministry of Education announces an annual call for this purpose under the investment programme 133-710 Development of a material technical basis for extracurricular activities of children and youth. The subsidy can cover the costs of construction work, the modification of outdoor areas, the acquisition of suitable equipment for leisure activities. The annual allocation for this programme is CZK 25 194 100, which is very low in view of the fact that assets from the Children and Youth Fund have been transferred to the organization in the past, and it has often been in a very detachable state and the investment required is several times higher than the allocation allocated to this programme. In view of the fact that programmes for children and young people often take place on the foundations of these organisations, with emphasis on healthy physical development and physical activity in nature, we propose a transfer from the chapter General Sports Activities to Support activities in the youth field. Specifically, we would like to replace CZK 276 266 938 with CZK 443 266 938. I think that these organisations can do even more for the physical and spiritual development of our youth, and they can use the proposed resources effectively. And in connection with the fact that it is often blamed for some amendments, that they are going too far, I have also made a smaller and more modest version, and it has been uploaded into the system under number 1844 and talks about the benefits of youth organisations, just as I mentioned in the previous defence. In this case, however, it is just 22 million, it is simply the minimum amount that would hold at least the most basic work that needs to be done on facilities for children and young people, so children would not lose the opportunity to use certain facilities. I would also like to introduce you to the amendment that was uploaded into the system under number 1847. It is an amendment to the state budget, and I propose an increase in resources under the heading of living art and living culture. Living culture is often one of the few forms of cultural belonging of the population outside the main urban agglomeration. And we're also carrying a structural debt. The regions are disadvantaged from large directly paid organisations as contribution organisations of the Ministry of Culture. It is hard for city and community owners to look for resources to support and maintain their collections and the salaries of performers are not competitive and we are losing talent. We therefore consider it necessary to increase the cost of living culture from the currently planned 742.8 million. CZK for at least 1 billion. CZK from the government debt service. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also applying to the amendment to the press 287 recorded under number 1846. I want to tell you that the situation of libraries is even worse than that of living art in general. Their social role has fundamentally changed. The concept of libraries as a place where books can only be borrowed is long dead. Libraries become a place of meeting people and passing information. There are authorial readings, lectures, symposiums, involved in scientific activities, bringing new discussions. It serves as an additional area of education for all age groups and as an important part of informal education. [[19.00 hours]] Libraries contribute to the deepening of knowledge in diverse areas of human knowledge and serve today for the necessary development of critical thinking. In municipalities, libraries are often the last functional social institution. The approximation strategy of the Ministry of Culture into the VISK public information service includes a sum of CZK 100 million. However, there is a reduction to CZK 38 million in the budget for 2019 following stagnation, with CZK 22 million being transferred directly under the financing item of the Ministry's contribution organisations. Even if we accept this argument, there are still 40 million missing. I believe that there is a possibility, at relatively low cost, to achieve a great deal of change and to help our libraries and culture significantly, especially in smaller municipalities. I therefore propose an increase in this budget line by 71.8 million from the government debt service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u123	Thank you. The President of Bartošek will be the next to speak in the debate. Mr Dolínek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm signing up for three amendments. The first are documents 1927 and 1925. These are amendments that address police salaries. Amendment 1925 increases the total amount of police salaries by CZK 765 746 392. And the second one, it's more symbolic, but I'm sure it'll help with the police's salaries, which is CZK 39 853 440. The point is that the police have long struggled with the fact that they cannot supplement their states. And I am firmly convinced, and this results from the fact that it is caused by the low remuneration of the police, especially in the first five years, not only by the police but also by the firefighters. This means that it is a strengthening in the wage area of the members of both congregations, i.e. both the police and the Fire Rescue Corps. And it's about two percent of the amount of salary money. Both of these congregations serve the public and their task is to protect the security of persons and property and public order, prevent crime, perform tasks according to criminal code, carry out activities criminalistic, technical, pyrotechnic, expert, scientific research, highly specialised activities in the field of information and communication technology, special diving activities, protect the lives and health of residents and property from fires, provide effective assistance in emergency situations such as: large-scale industrial accidents, large-scale fires, floods, the threat of international terrorism and the material provision of humanitarian aid. I believe that in order to stabilise the police, there is a need to increase salaries and release resources for this. That is why I am making these two amendments. The third is the House document 1927... so and now I've got it all wrong, it's the House press 1929. [[document]] The proposed change is linked to the strengthening of investments in the Fire Rescue Corps by 460 million. Crowns. It is the case that since 2011, large government cuts have taken place, resulting in a significant reduction in the budget of the Fire Rescue Corps, which is evident in this area, and since this year it has not been able to increase the budget so that it is at the level of 2010. The fundamental budgetary deficit is evident in the field of construction and machinery investment. I thank you and will be happy if you decide to support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u125	Thank you. Mr Dolínek is next, Mr Kupka is ready. Mr. Dolínek - he's here, so he can get off. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u126	Good evening, colleagues. I hereby subscribe to House document 1721, which is the amendment to the budget which I am proposing with the support of Mrs Černochová from the ODS. And it's a thing that might remind a little bit of the past of the Chamber of Deputies when money was released from the budget on some particular case of a city. We agreed a long time ago that it wasn't entirely popular, but when I introduce you to what's going on, I hope you'll understand that this kind of thing has to be dealt with in some way, and this is one of the desperate ways we're trying to solve this thing. This is therefore to reduce the expenditure in Chapter 396 of the State debt, the specific indicator of the operation of the state debt, by 250 million. CZK and increase expenditure in Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration, title 298D22 of the event financed by the decision of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament and the Government of the Czech Republic. And a new item of the overall reconstruction of the sports area and cultural monuments - and now it is important when you understand that this cannot be solved simply, and this is the Tělové Unity Sokol Prague, Králové Vinohrady, Polská 1a street, Prague 2, the cadastral territory of Vinohrady, the capital city of Prague. As I'm sure you all know, we've also talked about Falcon here today. This falcon hall can be considered the biggest, if not in the world, in Central Europe. He's got a moving history, it's also a cultural monument. And of course, there was first training of falcones, during World War II, if I'm not mistaken, so the SS took up this falcon for its men and there were their sporting activities. Under communists, it couldn't have flourished there twice. And since the 1990s, especially local unity, no matter how hard they try, there are many Prague MPs who know it, so they just collect money by millions, tens of millions, but the house at its size, while it is a monument, for those purposes, there is also a swimming pool, there are several halls, the background is really outdated, they need one big investment to get together and it can work in the future. I think it is also symbolic that this year is a hundred years of the Czechoslovak Republic. At the same time, we know that the falcon declared their fundamental legacy during their meeting and that the Czechoslovak Republic was founded at all. And this is a way of thanking them and showing clear cooperation. The Minister is no longer here, but I have been with him in the past, even with Minister Plaga, to address this situation. The city part of Prague 2 is definitely not going to be able to solve it with its money. If this money were to be sent by the capital city of Prague, it would basically send half the money for sport for the whole of Prague into one investment. That's why I approach it this way. We talked to the Minister, so the Ministry doesn't have such a subsidy program so that it can solve such a crucial area one time. At the same time, I would like to point out that this does not create a new football stadium, it does not create a national hockey centre, but we really take care of a cultural monument which certainly has a solid place not only in the history of Prague but also in the Czech Republic. So I hope you understand this proposal, and I strongly hope that when you talk about it at the clubs, you will find an understanding of this not entirely typical proposal for today's negotiations, where otherwise, of course, there are many other serious and systemic proposals that have been made here. Thank you and I wish the pleasant rest of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u127	Thank you. Mr Kupka will now appear, Mrs Kovářová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u128	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to present to you my amendment and, at the same time, the proposal by colleagues Jan Skopeček and Vojtěch Munzar on the draft budget for next year, which is deposited in the system under document number 1917. The proposal envisages a reduction in the expenditure chapter 396 State debt, under the heading of the government debt administration, by an amount of 300 million. CZK and at the same time increases the expenditure of Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, in the programme which deals with the support of selected projects for the development of basic education capacities established by municipalities and voluntary associations of municipalities by the said amount of 300 million. Crowns. [[19.10 hours]] Municipalities and cities around large cities and especially around Prague have recorded dramatic population growth in recent years, and cities and cities have to deal with this also in the area of education infrastructure. Fortunately, the state has responded to this in recent years by creating a program. This program is one of the most necessary. It addresses the emergence of completely new institutions, new schools and their construction. Unfortunately, there has been a new significant increase in the pressure on the municipalities around Prague, especially in the surroundings of Prague, because Prague unfortunately could not release the housing construction, and demand thus significantly spills into the ring around Prague. This will pose a new serious problem for the Czech state in the future and will generate the need to provide funds for the construction of these schools. Moreover, the problem is currently complicated by a significant increase in costs in the construction sector, and this has unfortunately also resulted in the lack of funding for selected projects, approved projects, in the same programme for next year's selected projects. The funds are missing, in particular, from the associations of municipalities, where small municipalities with minimum budgets have to lay down for the joint grand plan. In this regard, this proposal brings a solution to one of the burning problems surrounding the cities. I recently noted in the media the proposal that the Czech Republic should provide free lunches for all children in primary schools. Well, I'm convinced she should first of all make sure those kids have somewhere to go to school. And I consider the problem to be far more significant. That is why I am now taking the liberty of presenting a proposal that, at least in the most pressing area, would be able to secure an increase in funding for the projects already selected, projects that should be implemented. At the same time, along with this remark, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that, in the case of the ring of Prague and other large cities, when it is not built inside the capitals themselves, within the big settlements themselves, the interest of developers and the interest of people is moving to places where the infrastructure is not ready and where the new problem is keying for the Czech Republic, another wave that needs to be addressed by increasing funds. Thank you for your attention and, at the same time, I ask you once again to support this amendment, which is loaded in the system under document number 1917.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u129	Thank you. It is now Mrs Kovářová's turn, which I do not see here, so she will move forward in order. In that case, the next performer will be Mr Bauer, Mr Onderka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u130	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Colleagues and colleagues, allow me to sign up for my amendment, which is registered in the system under number 1912. In budget chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I propose a budget indicator of the benefits of material distress to reduce from the current 629 456 thousand. CZK 5,700,000. Kč. Difference, i.e. 929 456 thousand. CZK, it is proposed to convert within the scope of the chapter into non-investment non-payment transfers, transfers under Act No. 108 on social services. Just a brief explanation. It follows from the draft budget of the Ministry of Finance that the State budget for 2018 envisaged the cost of benefits of assistance in material distress amounting to 8 601 660 thousand. CZK, but the total expected expenditure is only CZK 5,700,000. Kč. Therefore, only 66,27 per cent of the planned expenditure is the expenditure incurred for the benefits of aid in material distress. Although the planned cost of material aid benefits is proposed to be reduced to 77,07 per cent for 2019, the planned amount is still significantly higher than the amount actually spent in 2018. In addition, a proposal was submitted for an amendment to the Act on Assistance in Material Need, the House's press 290, which led to a slight reduction in the cost of aid in material distress. Therefore, there is scope to reduce the planned expenditure on benefits in material distress in 2019 to the level of the actual costs incurred for these benefits in 2018. The difference is proposed to be transferred to the financing of social services that are long-term underfunded and in which there is a risk of destabilization as a result of the workers' tide. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u131	Good evening. Thank you for the show. We're continuing with Mr. Onderka's performance. But he's absent, so I'm moving his application to the end of the line. And now, Mrs Richterová, my colleague Holomčík will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. There's still a good number of us left. I would like to sign up for the 1827 and 1848 House press in a detailed debate on the state budget. These are two amendments, which I will briefly present. Of course, much has already been said today. In particular, it was said that there was no money for social services. So that's the one amendment I made. Basically, it's different from a bunch of other guys from where they came from. We believe that the reserves are in Chapter 396 of the Government Debt Service. 800 miles. is the amount that we consider critical in order to ensure the functioning of social services. In particular, it is the reason that the financing of certain services from European sources will fall out. I'll be a little more detailed in that second proposal. This concerns something that many of you might think works, namely data boxes, for many years the possibility of electronic communication with the state has been introduced. Unfortunately, many people have unfortunate experience that even though they have a data box set up, so authorities send them correspondence physically anyway, they have to stand in line at the post office, etc. And another negative thing is that the number of users doesn't grow very much, and yet, as a state, we spend huge sums, roughly 1.7 billion. CZK per year, postage, physical postage. So greater use of data boxes would help substantially save money for postage and at the same time facilitate common communication between citizens and the state. For this amendment, which is actually entirely for small money, for 3 miles. CZK, but on the important thing, to promote the use of data boxes, we sat down with colleagues Lukáš Kolářík, who is dedicated to the operation of the Ministry of the Interior, and with Ondřej Profant, who very well understands the difficulties with digitization of the state administration. To conclude, really, on the small finance, but on the possible impact of a rather large amendment, I would like to stress that today the interface for data boxes is far from user-friendly. People who are more used to the functionality that have emails are more likely to discourage it, but the state is already working on the Portal of a citizen who is much more handy, there are other applications built over those data boxes, so there is actually quite an easy way. What is more difficult is that, in fact, every official who works with the ability to send has a simple chance to send data boxes. There again is a need to have appropriate file service etc., it is linked. However, the key problem is that today many people who would be willing to set up a data box do not know that this possibility is at all and that it is easy and useful, and on the other hand, that many civil servants, even though they have an obligation with those who have the data box to communicate in this way, do not use it. Well, that's another real problem. That is why my colleagues and I are proposing Amendment No 1827 to move financial resources from Chapter 314, namely 3 million. to change from sports representation expenditure to a specific indicator of expenditure on ensuring the performance of the tasks of the Ministry of the Interior and other organisational components of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Richterová. Now, Mr Radek Holomčík, Mrs Valachová, will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u134	Well, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for my amendment in the system as document No. 1932. And in a nutshell, I'd like to introduce it to you and justify it. So I propose a change on the income side of Chapter 329 of the Department of Agriculture by a total reduction of 1 billion. CZK, in the following specific indicator other non-tax income, capital income and total transfers received, respectively. under budget lines item 2125 transfers from state-owned enterprise funds to state budget. And, in contrast, a reduction in the expenditure of Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture by an amount of 1 billion. CZK and in a specific indicator support of the agrifood complex. The reasoning is quite simple. I think we've all picked up the kůrovcový. And if the damage she did this year was significant, the predictions for next year are saying it's going to be even worse. In fact, there is also currently talk, or there has been a report in the media that the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic is already in operational loss, while there is talk of up to a hundred million loans for the operation of this company. In fact, in the last five years or so, 30 billion were transferred from the state enterprise. crowns, including 4 billion. from the reserve fund for growing activities, and the money will certainly be missing in the budget of the company Forest of the Czech Republic. I therefore consider this to be inappropriate for the next year to be planned or to be counted as a billion-dollar contribution, and I therefore propose that this revenue item be removed here. Therefore, I am once again signing up for my amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u135	Thank you, colleague Holomčík. Now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, Mrs Hana Aulická will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u136	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, Dear Government, let me read the accompanying resolution on the draft State budget for 2019. It's not new. This is an attempt, therefore, twice as successful, in the past and the previous year, and I believe that this year too, the Chamber of Deputies across the political spectrum will agree to recommend and support the government in its efforts to increase the salaries of teachers repeatedly, as well as other non-teaching staff in schools, as well as other objectives imposed on the government in recent years. Well, I. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution on the draft law on the State Budget: "Deputy Chamber of Deputies I. Supports the increase in the expenditure of the Chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in order to account for at least 5% of GDP by 2025 at the latest. Raising the chapter to use priority for predictable and transparent financing of regional education as well as public universities. The reform of regional education funding in order to ensure the stability of the education system and to improve the quality of education; II. Recommends to the Government of the Czech Republic to increase the salaries of teachers by at least 15 per cent year on year and other staff in education by at least 10 per cent for the average salary of teachers and other staff in education by at least 150 per cent for 2017 at the latest in 2021; III. Recommends the Government of the Czech Republic to unify from 2020 state investment programmes aimed at developing regional education infrastructure budgeted in Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and 398 of the General Treasury Administration; IV. Recommends the Czech Government to take into account the above mentioned objectives and recommendations in the expenditure frameworks and in the budgetary strategy of the public institutions sector, which will be approved by 30 April 2019, and to reflect the budget of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in 2021 and 2022 in the medium term.' So much for the proposal for an accompanying resolution for the draft budget 2019. I will just add this to the comments that this resolution does not reduce the standard or, say, the recommendation adopted by the House towards education and towards the education budget and its strengthening in recent years. Only in this, II specifies the objectives in such a way that they correspond to the government's programming declaration. And in III, in the case of unification of investment programmes, it respects the steps of the government that are currently heading towards unification of investment programmes in one place. And in IV, the previous resolutions complement so as to make it clear that these amounts of funding should appear in the expenditure frameworks already in the spring of that year, which prepares the budget for 2019. I would like to say that this draft accompanying resolution on the budget has been approved by the Committee on Education. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to obtain the same support from the Budget Committee. I myself explain this by wishing the Committee on Budgets to clarify those provisions of the accompanying resolution so as to correspond to the Government's programming declaration, which I have now done by reading in the second reading within the state budget. Furthermore, I would like to read or apply to amendments, which I also signed up in writing, so I will not discuss them in detail, so I will just apply shortly to the specific numbers of these amendments. But before I do, I would like to repeat what I said at first reading. The current budget for education is the third, repeatedly the third, highest budget for education in history. Again, I would like to reiterate that the Ministry of Finance has progressed extremely well in terms of the structure of the budget, and I must say, and as the former Minister of Education, perhaps even a little jealous of the current Minister of Education, that he did not have to drag on individual items within the structure of the budget and that the salaries of teachers and non-teaching workers and other items such as investment and others are growing again. The reasons why I have read the amendment, or I am going to read the amendments, are those as I announced at first reading that I want to create room not only for coalition negotiations, but also opposition negotiations in order to get a consensus on strengthening this record budget by another 700 miles. crowns, in favour of class allowances. I am therefore in favour of Amendments 1722 and 1723 and I believe that the talks on the parliamentary clubs as well as within the coalition and the opposition will continue. And once again, I thank the Ministry of Finance for the course of discussions and the presentation of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u137	děkovat you, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. And before I give the floor to the President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjur, I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Apologies to Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Mr Bělobrádek, Mr Běhounek and Mrs Válková and Mr Jiří Bláha until the end of the day. Now, then, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u138	Thank you for the floor. When I first spoke to this point, I expressed some discontent with the fact that we were acting this late in the evening. Dissatisfaction lasts, so let me make a procedural motion to suspend this item by 11 tomorrow. Thank you. And I would like to beg the resignation of all Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u139	Of course I will. Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. I will make sure that all those who wish to take part in the vote have a chance to enter the courtroom in a dignified manner. For those who have not heard the proposal from the President of the ODS, the proposal to suspend the hearing by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning or 9 a.m. by 11 o'clock, because at 9 o'clock there are answers to written interpelations. And let me remind you, we have five last entries in front of us. We can vote because there are over 67 of us in the vote number 73. I'm asking who's up for a break until 11 o'clock tomorrow, that is, six. 12. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 73 of the 91 Members present for 16, against 59. Your proposal failed, Mr. Ambassador. Then we can continue. And we will continue with Mrs Hana Aulická's speech, Mr Kováčik will prepare himself. At the same time, I declare vote 74 misguided, only because I have triggered it without stating the reason for which it should be voted. Well, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u140	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that it is already quite late, but I do not think that there is anything new for all Members of Parliament that we are also negotiating at this time. Anyway, I would like to read my amendment, which concerns an increase in social services in the state budget, in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by 200 million. Crowns. I don't think I need to delay the reasoning. I think we all know... [[Members are having a great time in the hall.]] I understand that social services are probably not such a political domain, so some of them already -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u141	I, Madame, will, of course, give you peace and order. The noises that are here, I will ask them to discuss a subject other than the second reading of the state budget, outside the Chamber. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u142	Thank you, too, Mr Vice-President. Anyway, I would just like to point out that, unfortunately, this year too, the area of social services is again significantly underfunded, when the regions were promised to go to social services about 17 billion. Unfortunately, these figures did not occur at the final stage of the state budget and so on after further negotiations - and I know that, of course, some colleagues are giving a much higher amount, but I think that these negotiations really led to some big compromise and that the social services will eventually get the necessary funding so that even the regions that are not getting all the money they want every year really get the funding. That is why I am putting my amendment under number 1818 at 200 million. And I would just like to point out that the transfer of these 200 million is only in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, i.e. in Chapter 313. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u143	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická. Now, Mr Pavel Kováčik with his speech. Before I give you my word, Mr President, Mrs Dana Balcarová has been apologizing at 20 o'clock. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u144	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, allow me to draw your attention for a moment. I will not make an amendment to the state budget, and yet I will make a proposal by which, as the Chamber of Deputies, we would accompany the State Budget Act when it is adopted on the accompanying resolution. I ask you to listen to my proposal and vote at third reading, respectively. After the third reading of the state budget, they supported it. Reason. Water is becoming, as many times here in the discussions in the Chamber of Deputies confirmed, a strategic raw material. It turns out that it was quite a mistake to let the ownership of water resources and water systems into other people's hands. The privatization wasn't exactly happy. We have one of the most expensive payments of water and sewerage, i.e. water prices for residents, in Europe certainly in relation to the consumer basket, respectively. average income, and all the more so on average income. And the development of recent years in the area of water supply is increasingly unfavorable. Just to remind you, it has also been said here, more than 300 municipalities in the Czech Republic had to be subsidized this year by water supplies directly to their municipal water reservoirs, because the resources they had simply dried up. In a number of cases, the water supply systems of individual municipalities or municipalities are connected so as to help the neighbouring municipalities, at least temporarily, for the time they are exhausted. I am convinced of this - and more and more and more it is not just us communists, but more and more voices from both the public and some of you, colleagues from other parliamentary clubs, we hear that it is time for the water to return to Czech hands when I say this very briefly. However, I believe that we must, as legislators, create at least primarily basic conditions. The condition is that the municipalities have a chance to buy back at all, because we are not talking about nationalization, but that the municipalities have the opportunity to buy back or buy out shares in companies with foreign participation, they own those companies, those systems, so that they can buy out those ownership shares in municipal or public hands. Therefore, allow me to try, if, within the Ministry of Agriculture's department, about a billion are being drained into the state budget from the Forests of the Czech Republic, and with all due respect to Mr Holomčík, if his proposal to prevent this from happening is not passed, there will be a billion that would be well returned to the resort and used it in a binding way precisely for the purpose of returning the water to public hands. Therefore, let me read the proposal, submit to you a motion for an accompanying resolution on the draft state budget for 2019, which reads as follows: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to increase the budget expenditure of the Ministry of Agriculture by 1 billion. CZK for preferential use in the purchase of shares of water supply and sewerage companies into municipal property. It is a very simple resolution, clear and clear, without any hooks and turns and without any ambiguities. I therefore ask you to take this whole social need into consideration and support the proposal at the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u145	I thank Mr Kováčik for his speech. Now, with a factual remark, my colleague Miroslav Kalousek. Mrs. Kovářová checked out of the application she had here, and she was personally saying it, so that's why there were two at the same time. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u146	I just made a little comment on what President Kováčik has just made. Of course, it is his right and it is voteable, but as far as the budget is concerned, the sovereign is the House, not the government. So if the House decides to do so, it should not ask the government, but there should be an amendment to that billion, and there should be a vote on it. Then it would be sort of a done deal. But of course, as I said, it's your right. I find it difficult to understand, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u147	Thank you for keeping time. One more point in fact from President Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u148	Thank you for the floor. Just a brief response by you, Mr President, towards Mr Kalousek. As it has been going on for so long, I believe, Mr Kalousek, that you would not vote for an amendment of this type, even for the draft state budget, even if the amendment was approved, while you too can vote for this accompanying resolution with a calm conscience. That is why I have chosen the path of the accompanying resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u149	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u150	I would like to ask President Kováčik if he could make an economic estimate of how much the municipalities and cities would have to pay for the shares. I am sure that the proposed amount, or the amount that President Kováčik is talking about, would be far from sufficient. And just to clarify, I cannot vote in favour of such a resolution with a calm conscience when President Kováčik believes that everyone can vote for him with a calm conscience. I will not vote for him with a calm or restless conscience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u151	Okay. Another factual point by Mr Kováčik. Before I give you my word, Mr President, Mrs Richterová apologizes from 7:30 to 22:00 for family reasons. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u152	Thank you for the floor. By your means, Mr President, towards Mr Stanjur. With you, my colleague, I would not expect you to vote in favour of this proposal with a calm or restless conscience. As far as economic analysis is concerned, this is the first step that is to clearly and clearly demonstrate the will of the Chamber of Deputies that this painful problem can be solved, and then, on the basis of demand or possible estimated more accurate demand, it will be possible to set a chapter, roughly its amount or the amount of resources to be used for the next budget, as well as resources, properly for the next budget. This is the use of those resources that I believe are available to me are produced within the agricultural department. And I don't want us to go anywhere else in quotes, for example, education, an army, or any other necessary resorts. So much to explain to my colleague Stanjura's reminder, and I thank him for telling me clearly that he will not vote in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u153	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u154	I don't know exactly when the shares were privatized, virtually. When cities and municipalities sold their shares, however, I remember it in my hometown. This was about 1997 or 1998, and the privatisation was prepared by the then Deputy Minister for Social Democracy. I just want to say that this was not just a decision of right-wing coalitions or right-wing councils, for example, in North Moravia, very often those shares were sold by cities and municipalities headed by left-wing politicians. First of all. And two. In fact, we don't know if cities and municipalities are interested. I think that, too, would be good to find out before such a resolution is made. And three. When we talk about funds from the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, I firmly believe that, for example, the KSČM will support the amendment of my fellow Member, Mr Blaha, who proposes to apply a relatively significant amount in the fight against the barking calamity, among other things. In our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u155	Okay. One more point in fact from President Kováčik. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u156	Thank you for the floor. By your means, Mr President, you, my colleague Stanjur, know well that those municipalities and cities did not have any chance at the time or had very few other chances to come up with resources for their basic operation, possibly maintenance of equipment, pavements, infrastructure, than to sell what was at hand. At the time, it was with the approval of a sort of ruling garniture. I'm not saying and I didn't say that it was exclusively under the right-wing leadership of the municipalities. The management of cities and municipalities was very different at the time, as they are today, and it was, let's say, a generally accepted custom, that these matters were sold despite warnings that went even from among us: for God's sake, do not fool around, sell it, it is basic strategic property, and one day it will be necessary to maintain it, and also to ensure, for example, that profits do not go somewhere unnecessarily. First of all. Two. The demand will be at the moment the offer is made. I believe that 2019 will be decisive for this very purpose. And don't worry, when it gets a little dry, it looks like development doesn't look like it's going to be a wet year, and even more communities are going to get into trouble with the supply of their people with drinking water, so there's a situation where really, and I agree with you, a billion is very little to solve this thing next year, but we're going to have a chance to sort of solve the problem more systemically and structurally for other budgets. With regard to the proposals to fight the crust, this is a social issue. I think that within the framework of both national subsidies and other things, the matter is supported -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u157	Mr President, your time for a point of fact has come to an end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u158	Thank you. - especially for small and medium-sized forest owners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u159	Mr Juránek's point of fact, then Stanjura, then the Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u160	Thank you. I would only take the liberty of doing so completely on this issue. When the problem of privatization of water companies and water was dealt with in general as such in the South Moravian Region, thanks to the City of Brno's representativeship, it managed to keep a majority of 51 percent there. And I just want to point out here that this was a real solution that is still paying off not only to the city of Brno but also to the South Moravian Region, and here I want to say that it was the strategic decision of the coalition that was then, and that was ODS and KDU-ČSL. And I dare say that this matter needs to be dealt with from one place to another, and it is not a national matter, but it is simply a decision by the municipalities and cities that have been in those places.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u161	I thank my colleague Juránek for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Stanjura's point of fact, then Mr Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u162	So I agree with President Kováčik on something, for example, that it was a relatively common practice for cities and municipalities, regardless of who was in charge. I just wanted to remind you that it wasn't an ideally right-left view. First of all. Secondly, I don't agree with the fact that the city used it to pay for normal traffic. No, no, no! The money was for investment. The cities were in a pitiful state after 40 years of government of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia. Tens and tens of billions had to be invested, and everyone who wanted to see it in their hometown or in the village they live in, or in the city they live in, what it looked like in 1989 and what the cities and municipalities look like today, almost 30 years later. Among other things, funds for necessary investments in the basic infrastructure of cities and municipalities were obtained from the privatisation of urban property or the shares of cities and municipalities in some companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u163	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Jan Zahradník, also with a factual remark, and then Mr Kováčik. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u164	Mr Vice-President, Mr Kováčik says that water management assets have been privatised. According to my knowledge, the water management infrastructure in most areas is owned by municipalities, except for about 10 or 15 percent of the property in North Moravia, and those municipalities, those cities, they hired operators. For example, in southern Bohemia, including the source in Rome, including the thick pipe owned by the South Bohemia Water Union, and the other smaller infrastructure in the property of municipalities. In South Bohemia, the company ČEVAK, a joint-stock company which, of course, has contracts approved by the councils, has most of the assets. He's giving part of the proceeds to rebuild the water infrastructure. We in České Budějovice have long been satisfied with how it works there. In recent years, we have extended the concession agreement. [[19.50 hours]] So, in my opinion, it is not true that the property is privatised. But what was privatized is the services. Some municipalities have moved on to manage the system themselves, to provide water supplies, and to restore themselves. It's a matter of decision of which council. The one who decides to hire a company to do it, that's what he's gonna do. Anyone who wants to take it into their own hands, some form of urban or municipal socialism, so let them do so. But it's always up to the council to decide which one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u165	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Pavel Kováčik, then Mr Petr Beitl. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u166	I, then, Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, really do not want to delay. But he started working with Stanjura. Thus, through the President, almost 30 years after the coup, you did not hold the bridges well, what we have built, that they fall so much one after the other. After all, tomorrow at 11 a.m., an item is to be dealt with by the governments of the ODS by unpaid businesses from the privatization period. I know, you say you haven't been to ODS yet, or at least not in office. But this does not change the fact that I, too, was not in office before the coup, in any party or economic significant function, and yet to this day I am accused of all the crimes I have done in those forty years. So just to be clear, history doesn't just count until 1989, but it's been long enough since 1989. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u167	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Petr Beitl. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u168	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also briefly complete the kaleidoscope on water management companies. Our territory is managed by North Bohemian water management company and manages the territory of the Liberec and Ústecký Region. In this territory, the municipalities retained the company's assets and the only thing they didn't control was 50 percent of the concessionary operating company. And since the shareholders ordered and managed the company well, the 50 percent was redeemed and from 1. 1. 2020 we are going with 100% property and 100% operating company. So it just wants to count it, manage it and municipalities and cities can manage on their own sometimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u169	Thank you for your time on the point of fact and I can give the floor to Mr Jaroslav Holík, Mr Roman Onderka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u170	Mr President, honourable House and also a diminutive government, I originally wanted to speak with my amendment. But because the political bickering that took place here was very long and I am myself from Zlín, where, I would say, the distribution of water is solved by the Moravian Waterworks, which is fully owned by Veolia, and there are a number of activists who would like to redeem this share, so it happened to us that one of the activists ran and was elected to the Zlín office. The City Council of Zlín, headed by the Mayor, refused to include all representatives of the SPD in the commissions. Just so we're clear. Now, allow me to apply to my amendment 1911 and to support the fight against drought. We here require that from Chapter 329 we transfer 200 million from Chapter 315 of the Ministry of Environment to Department 3.1 of Landscape Protection. And I'll explain what's going on. Dryness and a drop in the water level plagues all of Europe. The aim of this amendment or, respectively, is to promote the fight against drought and the maintenance of water in the countryside. The emphasis is mainly on anti-erosion protection. It is therefore the construction of small water reservoirs, ponds, wetlands, the planting of drawers, the formation of meanders and one of the important things to fix the troubles that were organized in our country in the 1970s and 1960s, when most farmers have mixed up the fields, and today there is still more than 50 percent of the water. These proposals reduce water loss in the landscape, address water and wind erosion and reduce the risk of flooding. They also help to fight the crust, because if the tree has enough moisture, it will drown the bark. In addition to planting greenery on agricultural land or on construction land, we recommend that greenery be planted on the vast areas of logistics centres, hypermarkets and production halls that are here. These proposed modifications will not only reduce the percentage of greenhouse gas in the atmosphere, but also restore the impact of the Czech landscape and the Czech countryside. Ladies and gentlemen, the water is missing and she's fading. And we're still sitting and looking like the one falling from the tenth floor, and everyone hears it flying around the fifth floor, as he says, so far it's good. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not flying around the fifth floor, we're flying around the second.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u171	I thank Mr Jaroslav Holík and now Mr Roman Onderka with his speech in the debate in the second reading of the state budget for 2019. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u172	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Ministers, Fellow Members, Fellow Members, just allow me to conclude the second reading on the State Budget for 2019 with two reminders of the amendments, which are already part of the Committee's proposal on this which we will vote at the third reading. One of them is a change in the text section concerning the preservation of the registers, even in the smaller municipalities, with regard to the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic. The second amendment, which concerns the sum of 327 million, is the expenditure carried out in ISPROFIN within the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to finance the programme Development of the reconstruction of the material technical base of social services, i.e. increasing investment in retirement homes, seniors and others. I do not justify in so much detail as it has been discussed in really quite detail within the Committee on Budgets and the resolution of the Committee on Budgets of the 16th meeting of 28 November 2018 recommended these amendments that I tabled to the Chamber of Deputies for approval. I had several amendments to the Grand Prix Brno or Moto GP. This is a matter which, in my opinion, is very important not only for the city of Brno, for the South Moravian Region, but also for the whole Czech Republic. The World Championship of Road Motorcycles Grand Prix of the Czech Republic is an important sporting event with a long history and a great tradition. It has, in addition to the great sporting importance, a major social impact, headed by the promotion of the city, the region and the Czech Republic, on a global scale. According to the analyses performed, it also has real financial benefits for the economy of the Czech Republic in hundreds of millions of crowns. [[20.00 hours]] In the framework of the operation, better said organizing these races, in the future in the Czech Republic it is necessary to count on at least the amount of the so-called leaf fee, which exceeds 100 miles. Crowns. Undoubtedly the city of Brno and the South Moravian Region contribute in the amount of tens of millions of crowns, and the Ministry of Education tried for a certain period to support this issue, because it really saw it as a matter of sport. Other important cost items include, of course, things related to the race itself, but there I would like to point out that organizers can cope with this, whether with regard to marketing, income from admission fees and so on. The amendment I tabled was 70 million. CZK and was directed to the Minister of Local Development of the Czech Republic, Mrs.Klára Dostálová. Through the President, Madam Secretary, I have withdrawn this amendment for one reason only. Because I have some respect for the agreement that we have in the coalition, I have respect for my colleagues and the long hours of next year's budget negotiations. From this point of view, I did not want to be the one who makes the so-called waves in further discussions in the Chamber of Deputies between our two political parties or movements. From this point of view, I must say that I have withdrawn the amendment, and here, on the spot, I call on you to stand up to it, even though it is no longer tabled. I am convinced that the funds from the Ministry of Regional Development are the chapter that can help, and the chapter where funding for this very important event can appear, which I would say is one of the most important in the Czech Republic in terms of tourism and in terms of the further functioning of this very popular sport. I would like to point out that according to data for 2016 live broadcasts of the MotoGP series, including the Grand Prix of the Czech Republic, will reach 200 countries around the world and reach more than 369 miles. households. It is obvious to calculate the funds that would cost the Czech Republic if it were to support such an event. Madam Secretary, allow me to do this as a Member of Parliament, as a native Brňák. I think this is a matter that is important not for Brno, not for South Moravia, but for the whole Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u173	I thank Mr Roman Onderk. Real comment from the Minister for Regional Development. Madam Secretary Dostálová has the floor. But I ask the House for peace so that I can begin to measure it for two minutes, because it has applied only to a factual remark. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u174	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I would follow up on my previous speaker, who challenged me to do so. It is already in the preparation of the government resolution, which we are going to give to the government of the Czech Republic in January after agreement with the Ministry of Finance. It is for the Czech Republic several such important events, which a priori are not about either pure sport or pure culture, but it is really about the prestige of the Czech Republic that such important events are happening here. And one of them is MotoGP. We have a lot of analyses to do that, and that's how we figure out the impact on the budget. And as I'm saying, it is really about the prestige of the Czech Republic that such an important show of the World Cup is going on with us. So I can confirm that we are counting on this, and we will present it to the government as an important event of the Czech Republic for 2019.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u175	Thank you, Minister Dostálová, for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another factual point by Mr Miroslav Kalousek. I will also ask the House for peace before I give you my word and start measuring your time. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u176	I don't want to stall. Just one good night request to MotoGP's supporters. I'm okay with public funds going at it, however much I've always resisted as Minister of Finance. But I beg you to argue with the prestige, because this is certainly a prestigious matter for the Czech Republic, but do not argue with the analyses. I saw economic analysis of profitability, how the Olympic Games would pay off in Prague. I've seen economic analysis, which means the economic return of the Odra-Labe-Dunaj channel. These analyses are from the same club. Stick them in your drawer and support the prestige. I still understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u177	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Onderka's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u178	For my colleague Kalousek through Mr President. I understand that the old analyses that were made during their governments, in which they participated in some way, are the ones that aren't the right ones. And I can imagine some analyses during the reign of social democracy that are not the right ones. And I know what I'm talking about, and I can set an example for both of them. In terms of the analyses that are to MotoGP, they are about simple common sense and mathematics. Dear colleague, through Mr President, when someone comes from Germany, takes it through Prague, they have to gas somewhere on the way, maybe even buy a road sign if they ride the machine, they get there. He's got to sleep somewhere, he's got to have coffee somewhere, he's got to have lunch somewhere, he's got to have dinner. He has to look somewhere, buy a ticket and maybe come back in three days if he visits some other monuments within the Czech Republic, not just South Moravia. Common sense speaks to me, this is a financial contribution indisputable to the Czech Republic. I don't need any company and expensive analysis for that. But I understand where my colleague Kalousek was headed, and I feel that social democracy in this case is saying by my means - prestige is incalculable, but for the Czech Republic everything else is an asset in hundreds of millions of crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u179	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Although you understood my colleague Kalousek, my colleague Kalousek will not miss it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u180	For the last time. I know they'll come and eat something and sleep somewhere. But it's just not hundreds of millions of crowns, it's not true. And don't get upset about it. It doesn't matter what government these analyses were done in. The Olympiad was economically recommended by PricewaterhouseCoopers as a renowned company and signed by its partner Miroslav Singer, later governor of the Czech National Bank. I'm laughing at him until today. He doesn't like to hear it. Please, not these analyses.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u181	I thank Mr Kalousek. After all, colleague Onderka has made a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador. It's your will, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u182	Through Mr President, I will be very brief on Mr Kalousek. This time it does not offer you, nor does it persuade you, nor does price, nor any other company dealing with this issue. Now, it's offered to you by the longest serving mayor of the second largest city in the Republic. And trust me, colleague, I know what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u183	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. This was the last one entered into a detailed debate. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS Club, is reporting in the debate. Not in fact, but in a proper application. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u184	Madam Secretary asks if I have it for two hours. Well, I can talk for two hours. I wasn't planning on it, but what I wouldn't do for the Treasury Secretary. I guess I'll start with the MotoGP. I was intrigued by the debate. I have not yet experienced a situation where, on the one hand, they file criminal charges. If I'm not mistaken, then - lawsuits, I'm sorry, that's a big difference. [[Objection by Members that this is an action.]] Without irony, he is the former mayor of Brno of the ANO movement, the current commander of the ANO movement, filing a suit against the Ministry of Education, led by the Minister of the ANO movement. You won't grieve with a promise, so let's not talk about it in the budget and hope it works out somehow. Maybe there'll be a new lawsuit or something. [[20.10 hours]] I am glad that Mr Onderka was so inclined that I did not hear the popular combo of public money applicants, that there was a multiplier effect. And then they say if I put a crown in there, I'll get three back. So if you give me 70 miles, we get 200 back. If that were true, I suggest we hit 200 miles and get back 600 or 500 miles. and we get back 1.5 billion. If I believed it would bring hundreds of millions to the state, and I'm not saying I'm against supporting the action, and if I took the smallest number out of the hundreds of millions, the least hundred are two hundred. One hundred is one hundred. So if it's $200 million, and if it's VAT, and if I say it's all going to be at the base rate, then the revenue that those visitors are going to make is $1 billion. 200 miles. and of which it is about 21 percent, rounded to 200 million, which will end up in the state register. I don't know who will write an analysis that the participants of the Grand Prix Brno will spend 1.2 billion in three, four, five days. And now I'm talking about foreign visitors, our visitors always spend it in front of Moto GP and after Moto GP. I don't think it's happy not to do it in the budget, but if there's that kind of trust, I trust you, you trust me, we don't put it in the budget, we'll see why not next time. But that was just a comment on an interesting debate. On the contrary, I was looking forward to voting on the amendment in order to show who supports the prestige and who doesn't. By the way, we have two events in the Czech Republic that compete for the visitor record: Moto GP Brno and NATO Days in the Moravian-Silesian Region. The first difference is that Moto GP is three days, NATO days are two days. The second difference is that some Moto GP participants pay admission fees, many do not, and NATO Days are free for the public. We can compare, in both events we can talk about about 200 thousand. visitors. It also depends on the weather, whether it's raining or not, but in the best of years comes 200, 210 thousand. In two days. If the weather is really extremely bad, maybe 110 or 120 thousand. In two days. At this event, it's extremely valuable that it's really free. I thank everyone from this place who invented the event and operated for years. When I spoke to them years ago, they chose the concept that once the taxpayer had already paid defense expenses in the form of taxes and thanks to how much we allocated to defense, then when the Army of the Czech Republic wanted to show what it had taken from taxpayers' money, it was not appropriate for them to pay again. The principle seems right to me, and the success of this action confirms that this is the right principle. And your hat off. Many of us have seen the first year of the Black meadow, and when we compare it with the last year of this year, the difference is sky-high. Let's go back to the budget. We approved the basic parameters at first reading. Let me just remind you that we've approved a $40 billion deficit. and from the mouth of the citizens' democrats, the criticism of the deficit was first and foremost. And it sounded pretty simple. The moment the government planned about 150 billion. higher income, was unable to present a proposal for a balanced budget and of the 150 billion. as if it used only 10 and 140 billion to reduce the deficit. increased the planned expenditure. Very often I hear from government politicians that there is no important plan, the law that the outcome is important. I think there's a part of it that's true. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] I said it's part of the truth, not that it's completely true. If we want to take the state budget seriously, we should try to make the budget as precise as possible. When we look at revenue, I think that the budget is realistic in the area of income, based on a realistic estimate of the development of the Czech economy next year. There's no point in arguing about change, if it's a tenth more or less, so it's basically a match. How we differ with the government is the expense party. I would say that in five years, when the coalition of YES and ČSSD, or ČSSD and YES, operates, in the last parliamentary term, to do so according to the size of the parliamentary clubs, this government coalition, once with the people, once with the communists, is mainly devoted to the revenue side and we have not noticed any effort to limit operating expenditure. And we do not see it in the draft budget for 2019. And I think five years is enough time to evaluate trends and compare numbers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u185	I understand, Mr President, but they are also your party colleagues who are, in some way, not willing to go into the lobby and discuss issues other than those you are talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u186	Yes, I will ask my party colleagues not to speak to government politicians because it disturbs me. [[With a smile. Glee in the hall.]] In order not to speak to them in the O.R. during my speech, otherwise, of course, they can make it quite clear. [[Laughter explosions and applause in the left side of the hall.]] When we criticized the size of the deficit, we promised that we would do what we thought in previous years was not enough to just criticize. And when I criticize something, I have to show that I have a better solution. We have prepared, together with my colleagues, an amendment that is in the system as a House document number... now I apologize, 1930. Thank you to the rapporteur. Although I am signed under it, or it is introduced into the system under my name, please see it as a joint amendment to our entire club. We found, and quite simply, I mean, 40.5 billion. possible savings. If we were looking for more, perhaps we could say that an surplus budget could have been drawn up. We said that we would be satisfied and that we would be politically grateful if the draft budget was balanced. That's why we were looking for 40 billion. and not like 50 or 60. There aren't many of the items we found it in, like, 11. And I'll try to introduce you if you'll allow me to do that and lower the noise level a little bit, and bring some closer to you. Although I know that the chances of admission are small, I will try to explain to you and perhaps the audience and, in particular, to taxpayers where we see unnecessary spending. And that's why, as we said, we can already do the numerical series for, like, five years, so we can compare. Thank you. [[The noise in the hall went down. The Treasury Secretary is speaking from the bench.]] Madam Secretary tells me. We were based on valid legislation, unfortunately our proposal to reduce taxes to employees has not yet been approved, so we can't count on the 55 billion that represent reduced revenues for the entire public budgets, not just for the state budget, which means that for the state budget it would be about 38, 0.7 times 55, so fast I'm counting, however, if we were to cover it, we immediately showed you the 40 billion where you can find it. Once we approve, we'll definitely find tens of billions more. I've told you twice in my performance that it's far from all savings. The first digit, the first item on which I would like to draw the attention of taxpayers, are the amounts of salaries and other payments for the work done in the number of seats and average salaries. Let's take a look at that line. And I'm going to round it up a little bit, I'm going to say total expenses in billions of crowns: 2014 - 132.5 billion, we can take the argument that it was still prepared by the government of Jiří Rusnok, which is true. By being elected in October, the new government came only in January 2014, so it was defended by the administrative government of Miloš Zeman and Jiří Rusnok. However, the voices for this were found by the then forming coalition of ČSSD, YES and KDU. In 2015, this was the first budget prepared by the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, the total expenditure under this item was 139 billion, 149 billion in 2015. - Sorry, in 2016 149 billion, in 2017 162 billion, this year 186 billion. and for the next year, the Minister and the entire coalition are cutting down official posts, saving, saving, and total spending is 207 billion, which is plus 21 against 2018 and plus 72 billion. Against 2014, which is a percentage of the increase of almost 50% compared to 2014. [[20.20 hours]] And now, my dear taxpayers, answer the question of whether, with almost 50% growth in wage money, it is possible to find savings in this item and how large. We have proposed relatively very mild measures and this is a reduction of 4 percent. Each of us, if we have to, will save 4 percent of our expenses. It's nothing that would make it impossible for a family, a company, a community, a city or a region to continue to function. 4 %. But in these huge numbers, the 4 percent are 8.4 billion. Kč. If anyone says the argument, yeah, but you don't want to add that much to those employees, that's not true. We don't lower average pay. We're reducing the total volume. Just don't increase the number of jobs. And then the people, even after the reduction of 4 percent in volume, will have higher salaries. And that is the path that we have proposed in the long run: to have fewer civil servants, especially officials, but better paid. That's what I think everyone who pays taxes understands. And now we can play with the percentages that even if we lower it by 4 percent, the increase from year to year is going to be 13.5 billion. This is not enough when the increase between 2014 and 2015 was 7, between 2015 and 2016 was 10, between 2016 and 2017 was 13 and between 2017 and 2018, there was therefore a massive one, I don't know whether Ivan Pilný was Minister at that time or not, budget of 2018 was approved in 2017... [[The minister sits in a desk opposite the speaker's desk and reports that she defended the state budget at third reading.]] She was already Madam Secretary. So that was an increase of 24 billion. But at third reading, of course, the Minister could only respond to the amendments, could not in any way correct the basic parameters of the budget. However, last year, we also proposed savings in this item, which the government majority rejected. So we have a pretty simple 8.4 billion. Each percentage is over 2 billion. So let's imagine we'd save 5 percent if we suggested it, so it's over 10,5 billion. So that's the first item. The second highest item - I go from the highest to the smallest - would certainly please Mr. President. President Miloš Zeman, when he comes to the House, gives us a speech, for example on the budget or otherwise, so he basically talks about three topics. I don't want to paraphrase it. And one of these topics is the promotion of renewable energy sources in the long run. Then the president will say it. The Prime Minister will say, yes, that's true, that's terrible, that's the terrible money we're giving. And there's nothing going on. And again, in a year's time, Mr. President, or six months, or three months from now, I don't know when he'll be visiting us, and if he talks about the budget, he'll no doubt mention the costs of renewable resources, and that line behind him will nod his head, yes, that's right, Mr. President. [[points to the government bench]] We agree. Unlike the government, we are proposing to reduce this item by 7 billion. That's 15 and a half billion. There's 25 in the budget. There's 25 in the budget, so without 17, it would be 18 billion. [[7?]] [[Jaroslav Faltynek and Minister of Finance Alena Schiller sit in the bench right in front of the speaker and ask: How are you going to do that?]] How do we do that? Come and consult with the opposition. We will certainly tell you what ways are possible and which ways we would support. It was our government, which, for example, imposed a solar tax. That's what you have to say. So we had the courage to try and go some way. And I think it's for a wider debate and that it's not a political problem, that there's no political conflict. I think we agree that the amount is disproportionately high. And I think we're supposed to have a serious debate about what are reasonable expectations for the future, what was the intention of those who introduced it. We were opposed as citizens' democrats. I wasn't here at the time, but we were against it. And I think it's quite simply proven that the profitability is back a long time ago. That was the intention of those who advocated it so that it would not be lost. Then the price of inputs decreased sharply, but the aid remained the same. So that's the second item, and it's already 15 billion. Then we have a favorite item here for the chairman of the agricultural committee. I'm sure he'd be disappointed if we didn't focus on supporting the agrifood complex. This is where we propose to save 4 billion. [[Jaroslav Faltynek repeats the question: On what?]] To support the agrifood complex. I think he'll be able to handle it without a doubt. Seriously, let's leave it to the committee. If you call me that, I'll answer you, it's easy for you, it's a little worse for me. If the secretary were to lecture the draft state budget, and I yelled at every number here, "How did you figure that out?" Why 3.1? Why 15 billion?? Why 14? Well, I certainly would have disturbed her, and she certainly wouldn't have liked it. But I'm ready for a more detailed debate in third reading. I hope we have a more dignified hour before we decide to vote... [[I'm just interested in your arguments, so I'm asking.]] Well, I'm glad you're interested in the civil democrats' arguments. In order not to just do the biggest items, I'm going to try to say the smaller items. Such a ministry, which often spends in vain, is the Ministry of Regional Development. [[Reactions in YES benches.]] So it doesn't find out. Support for the development of regions 2019 plus. What are we going to imagine underneath? When I listen to the Prime Minister, when he talks about public budgets, he always says those counties and those communities have money, they have money in their accounts, they're billions, we've increased the revenue that they keep complaining, they don't know what to do with the money. And yet the MMR actually opposes the Prime Minister's opinion, I don't know how they managed to enforce it, proposes this grant title. We believe that, at the moment the economy grows, tax revenues are growing relatively strongly for next year, which means that revenue from the budgetary determination of taxes is also growing, is not, is not needed. When we look at an even smaller amount - a national tourism promotion programme in the regions. I know that in the light of reports from police circles leaking into the media, it might seem like it's vicious, but believe me, it's not vicious on our part. However, the increase - now I am talking about an annual increase - of 200 million. The risk of this investigation after everything that's supposedly going on in there, I only know it from the media, seems unnecessary to us, so we're not suggesting to cancel, just keep it at the current level of 2018, which is a savings of 200 million. Six billion fare compensation. The government compensates, pays the fare. I see quite, I must say, the handy marketing tools of our carriers who... You get the feeling about their posters at the train stations because I take the train every week, that they actually pay for it. Come with us. We give you up to 75 percent. I haven't seen anywhere on these marketing means carriers: the government, the state, the House, in this case the government is paying you 70 percent. Our dear carriers give 75 percent discount - imagine - to students and seniors. That's what I read at the train stations. At the same time, I read that the government is taking credit from the European Investment Bank to invest in transport infrastructure. So I'm gonna get out of one of these pockets because that money would have stayed in traffic otherwise, and on the other hand, I'm gonna borrow it to cover the loss. I think we need a minimum of six- or twelve-month passenger statistics to see if the effect was what those who support it are, whether it is what they promise or what they claim it is. At the same time, I read astronomical amounts about the so-called investment plan. And it doesn't really matter which one you take the date and the amount. If you divide it by the number of years, you get an incredible amount for every year. Someone's making fun of us. Tomorrow we will, actually we won't, because the Prime Minister is said to be excused in the morning, so we're going to interrupt my interview when I was looking for the National Investment Plan for at least 2019 and 2020. For those of you who have not yet read the House Press, I have received the answer: I cannot send you anything, so far we are discussing it. But I'm already reading in the media how much money it's going to be. Billions. So divide it, look, I can quote capital spending, and then look at whether it's real or not. It's not real. [[20.30 hours]] Business support, MIT. We believe that the best business support is low simple taxes and lower bureaucracy. Not new and new grant titles. However, this left-wing government sees the support of business as a subsidy. I would say, and we've already talked about this a few times in the last few days, that completely absurd is an investment incentive in the hundreds of millions of very rich, very profitable foreign companies. Nothing against this company, so you don't think I'm criticizing it. But that's the unsystemic one, virtually. High-left approach. If anyone's imagining supporting a grant-winning business, they really miss us very ideally. The grant titles, by their very nature, are unfair. It's just somebody asks, somebody doesn't have people to process it. Then somebody will judge, just somebody will get, somebody won't get. But basically, everyone would want it. Let's cut their taxes. That's fair. That's business support. Or let's cut their bureaucratic responsibilities. I don't want to talk about EET today. The forms! chudák company, which is "earned" and has to fulfil the information obligation to the Czech Statistical Office. I would advise every Member to go to a small company that has this obligation. Those are dozens of forms every year. How many kilograms of paper packaging? [[unintelligible]] How much paper? How much did this weigh? Real life is such that they shoot it from the side, then somebody add it up, then it averages it in the report and then we have big reports on the state of the environment and there we write how much packaging techniques or packaging of individual types has been consumed or used, company. What do we have it for? If that's what we're doing with the big ones who, first of all, produce a lot and have enough employees. Let's not bother the little one. More and more forms. Almost every regulation that's designed here produces some kind of paper. And the electronization is going on, and I call it electronization from Austria-Hungary, and that's really a travesty. When you didn't communicate electronically, e.g. with the health insurance company, when you logged in employees, so you filled out the application, signed it, stuck it in an envelope and sent it. Now we've electrified it, so you print out the paper, you sign it, you put the paper in the scanner, you scan it, you save the file, and you send it electronically somewhere. And that's what many call the electronization of the public administration. That's really funny. So we can cut $4 billion in peace here, it won't hurt to support business, we'll just reduce the risk of scandals, corruption, injustice, unequal access to public resources and distortion of the market. If you're talking to an employer or if you look at a monthly report from the employment authorities about the number of unemployed people, you'll find that at this point, the offer of job vacancies outweighs the number of unemployed people. How does the government reflect this fact in the draft budget? It's an MPSV, and there's this nice item in active employment policy. I would therefore be very interested - the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs did not consider it necessary to come up with a budget discussion at all - on what he would spend the money on. Who do they give them to when there's no free labor? When our companies complain they can't find employees. We're suggesting we cut $2 billion. And you guys who might be against it, so before we vote on it, I'm gonna want to hear what those $2 billion are gonna be used for. Really. Active employment policy or unemployment policy? What's it called? Employment. But if we're not unemployed, it should probably be an active unemployment policy that we make some and then we support them. Otherwise, I don't understand the money. The economy is growing, we have basically full employment, wages are rising, wages are rising - for many MEPs and for many taxpayers, this is really a difference, wages and salaries are not synonymous - while social benefits are increasing. I don't understand it at all, and maybe I want to ask the secretary of finance what she says about it as a guardian of the register. The economy is growing, wages are rising, and social benefits are increasing at the same time. Do you see any logic in this? If the economy were to decline, if unemployment were to grow, it is logical that the potential increase in social benefits is possible. In this case, the opposite is happening. So these are, it's not all 11, I'm saying, by being quite late, I don't want to delay, these are the main items of where we can save $40 billion so that the draft budget is balanced... [[Mr Onderka is speaking to the Members in the benches before the speaker.]] To do that, we have a microphone to explain, Mr. Onderka, through Mr. Control. I'm sure we'd all like to hear an explanation. If the basic sentence, which ministers say for the YES movement, is that the outcome was better than the plan, if we had adopted a balanced state budget, means that we would have achieved a surplus state budget. Which would certainly be a good result at a time when the economy has been growing regularly at a very decent pace for several years. Because we tabled similar amendments last year and year before, as a realistic politician, I know that it does not stand a very good chance of adoption. However, don't tell us if we argue over the state budget, that we don't know where to find the money. This is where we showed that we know. The state budget is a high-level policy, it's a high-level political decision. The government and the opposition can and logically have different priorities, which is why they are also well and, if possible, competently arguing for priorities. I am not saying that everyone says that, but many of the government's politicians, and I mean ministers and MPs, I don't just mean ministers, they say: the opposition is proposing and doesn't know where to take it. So here we have shown you how we can quite simply make a proposal for a balanced state budget, for example, if we were to compile it. We can still have a few more moments, because we can still act after 21st hour, we're not pushing any time, we're talking about whether we can or can't afford tax cuts. And at the beginning, I'm perhaps the first sentence I've said that the government estimates an increase in revenue of 150 billion, and at the same time I said that this is a realistic number. So the government has a plus 150 billion next year. We will now deduct from this approved increase in pensions, we will deduct from this approved increase in funding to education or education, let us say education as a broader term. We're going to subtract from the 150 billion from the funds for science and research. You still have about 95 billion left to make a political decision. Maybe 90 to be generous. Of the 90 billion, there is no doubt room for tax reductions. With some taxes, there's a blackout, investment doesn't grow dramatically, but even if I count it down, there's still considerable scope for tax cuts. For some taxes, reductions or cancellations, the blackout is quite small. Cancellation of road tax for passenger cars used for business is not a big blackout and it saves many bureaucracy and many confessions to both companies and financial authorities. The tax, which is paid, but is extraordinarily demanding, is relatively negligible. I'm not talking about service vehicles. I'm talking about the private vehicles that employees use for business trips. You could barely see the blackout there. [[20.40 hours]] In the tax package, I proposed a reduction in excise duty on beer - hundreds of millions. Cancellation of property acquisition tax 13 billion. This too would be richly covered by increased income. Even our tax cuts on dependent activities for employees of some, we said to ourselves, 38 billion. from the state budget. Even that would be well covered by the fact that the economy works. However, the government has other priorities. Some of you are angry because we say reality. It's typically a left-wing budget. Even after the budget was approved, ministers and, in particular, the Minister began to overtake themselves in good ideas on how to increase expenditure. Then, for the great victory of their joint negotiations, they claim that it will not be in January, but in 12 months' time in January. Instead of looking for opportunities on the expense side, they constantly increase the mandatorial expenditures. And when we look at the structure of the expenditure and we say, "mandatory expenses," you feel like you're left with relatively much to decide. Relatively a lot. But then there's pseudomandatory expenses. If we just take the payoff item, the wage costs, if I take it simply, it's not mandatory, but it's really pseudomandatory. Or quasimandatory. And then you'll find that for that political decision, for that conflict, if I round it up, I'll be generous, we'll be left with less than 20 percent of the total revenue of the state budget. If I put in the mandatory and quasimandatory. So the very space, the political conflict, isn't very high. He's not very tall. And to increase it, there's only one way to reduce the mandatory or quasi-mandatory expenses. Then even the debate will be richer, then even some chance of pushing some political priorities more strongly for the government will be higher. Clearly, the political priorities of the left-wing and right-wing governments differ, but I think we have a common problem. If the structure of the budget, preferably with broad political consensus, does not really change, the scope for the political conflict, the application of its priorities, in fact, is constantly decreasing to meet electoral programmes. And if there is a reduction in the scope of the electoral programmes, those electoral promises and electoral programmes are very often impossible to meet, and this leads to disillusionment from politics in general. And I think we should respect that each side has some voters, representing their view, for example. on the state budget, which is why we differ, which is why we are in other political parties. But if the space is narrowing down and the space to implement the electoral program is narrowing down, that's not good news for anyone. Today it may be a little more advantageous for the coalition than for the opposition, but of course it can be replaced, but even if we swapped and sat in opposite benches from tomorrow, the space remained the same. And it's too small. And in order to change that, we can't change that with the state budget, it has to change other laws. That's why we're warning about new mandatorial expenses. It is quite simple, and we have tried this several times in the past months, to introduce a new social benefit. So far, the political experience has been this: the Social Democrats have proposed a new social benefit, the YES movement has opposed it. Then they took action and eventually the new social benefit arose. Last paternity leave, if I remember correctly. I remember the beginning of the debate on the time of the Karen, the attitude of social democracy in the long run, and the attitude of the YES movement that has changed. He changed because - I know it was in the coalition treaty, but the political stance has changed. [[reaction to a comment outside the microphone of the Minister of Finance, who sits first and foremost against the speaker counter]] We've put in again something that's mandatory expenses. And when I say that it is quite easy to introduce a new social levy or a new dictatorial expenditure, a coalition agreement or a current majority in the Chamber of Deputies is sufficient. When I'm 101, it almost doesn't matter how the Senate stands up to it, because most of it has the power to outvote the House, but from political practice, I know it's almost impossible, almost impossible to cancel such a dose. It is extremely politically costly for anyone who tries to do so. That is why we call for caution against introducing new mandatory expenditures to actually provide financial space for the policy itself, for the conflict of programmes and for the conflict of individual priorities of individual political parties and political movements. We did what we promised, we showed you the savings. The other amendments presented by my colleagues and my colleagues aim to move forward. I think for our club that we've given them good reasons, whether today on a microphone or in written materials. I admit that the justification for these savings is rather brief, which is why I have been talking rather long to bring them closer to you. I'd be very, very surprised if you'd approve. If you approve, next time we'll write the explanatory note in a lot more detail, I can promise you that. Thank you for your attention. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u187	Thank you, too. I welcome you to the last part of today's meeting. I therefore ask the rapporteur, who has yet to sign up for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u188	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I was here at the outset reading the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, which had the first part of the statement, which stated, among other things, that the Committee on Health did not discuss subsidies to non-profit and similar organisations within the scope of Chapter 335. So let me put it right now, because today a resolution has been adopted by the Health Committee, which takes note of the point of discussion of subsidies to non-profit and similar organisations within the scope of Chapter 335, so it is my duty to inform you. And since the chairman of this committee is excused for visiting a doctor, I took the liberty of representing her and introducing you to this. Therefore, from my point of view, there should be a change in the final voting part, which I will, of course, read during the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u189	Thank you, too. Mr. President Stanjura is still reporting with a point of fact, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u190	I forgot, I'm sorry. I would like to ask the rapporteur. The amendment has 12 items. When you're planning the procedure, we'd like to vote separately on each of these items. It's just technical, factual. And second, I didn't say that, so we're suggesting that the savings be transferred to the government debt service chapter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-05-ps2017-024-02-010-005.u191	Thank you for keeping time. At this point, I do not have any further factual remarks or applications for the debate, i.e. I am ending the debate, which concludes the second reading of this proposal. And by doing so, we have exhausted all the things that can be discussed today. We will meet again tomorrow at 9 a.m. when the answers to the written interpelations will be, and by 11 p.m. at the latest, we should continue with the next points. Thank you all for your attention. I still have a factual remark from Mr Venhoda, but that is, I presume, a mistake. Wrong. So in that case, that's really it. Thank you at this moment and I am interrupting the meeting by tomorrow 9 o'clock. Have a good evening.
