ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-003-005.u1	5. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 182/1993 Coll., on the Constitutional Court, as amended, and Act No. 250/2016 Coll., on liability for and management of offences /house print 30/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered as House Press 30/1 and I ask that the motion tabled under the authority of the Senate be presented by Senator Eliška Wagnerová, whom I warmly welcome here and please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-003-005.u2	Mr President, Members, Members of Parliament, Members and Members of the Government, I come before you with a minor amendment to the Constitutional Court Act and the Criminal Law, which de facto corrects, to say the omission that took place in 2002, when the regime for legislators changed as regards the procedural procedure for handling the offence. At that time the legislators were given the opportunity, if they found it necessary or appropriate, to go in front of the parliamentary chamber with their error, i.e. an offence, before the parliamentary authority. Forgot about the constitutional judge. In fact, constitutional judges today are the only ones de facto excluded from criminal liability, at least in terms of substantive exemption in terms of punishment, because de facto they have the only possibility of being punished by a complaint. Where other citizens, Members, Senators, too, are threatened with thousands of fines, driving bans, etc., there is only a complaint. You can't talk about punishment, and that's why I'm talking about the exemptation. I believe that it is quite appropriate for the members of the Constitutional Court to be subject to the same regime as the legislators. After all, this scheme has been effective since 30 March 2002, and I think it is a good experience with it, that there are no reservations against it, etc. I therefore believe that it would be good for the constitutional judges to do the same. Therefore, I beg you to judge this law favorably and release it for further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-003-005.u3	Thank you, Senator. The Senator is the chair of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, and we also have our own chair of the Constitutional Commission, Mrs Valachová, who I hereby give the floor to comment on this press as rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-003-005.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the Senate bill amending the Constitutional Court Act as amended and the law on liability for offences. The important thing here was heard from the translator's mouth. Perhaps just a reminder that the proposal was delivered to us on December 13, 2017, that is, a long time ago. This is, in principle, a matter which corresponds to other similar adjustments within the framework of the rule of law. In short, there is no reason for there to continue to be an inequality between the judges of the Constitutional Court and other citizens, when they protect the Constitutional Court judge from prosecution for misdemeanors in disciplinary proceedings before the Constitutional Court, it does not allow a penalty other than a complaint to be imposed on judges for offenses. And there is a parallel offered by the plaintiffs and the Senate, which is actually similar to the way it applies to Members and Senators, thus allowing punishment or sanctioning in quotes as in the classic infringement proceedings. This means that this proposal should definitely receive support for me and should be released until further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-003-005.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate on this point. I ask if anyone is interested in a performance, at this time no written application has been filed. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking the plaintiff if she's interested in the final word. It's not like that. The rapporteur is also not interested in the final word. [[14.50 hours]] There has been no proposal to return or refuse, so we will deal with the motion on the commandment to the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I see no one, so we can proceed to the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 85, 174 Members registered, for 157, against no one, this proposal was adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Is there a motion for a commandment to the next committee? This is not the case, so I am saying that we have successfully discussed this point, and I am ending the first reading. Thank you, senator. Goodbye. I'm opening another point number.
