ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on Recording of Sales, as amended, and Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended / House print 205/ - First Reading We renegotiated this point on Tuesday, 18 December and the item was interrupted in the general debate. I ask that Minister Schillerová, who is already there, and the rapporteur for first reading, take the position at the rapporteur's table. We will now continue the interrupted general debate. Mr Munzar, to whom I hereby give the floor, is entered in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Dear Prime Minister, Dear Government. I have been here several times in the general debate at first reading on this point, and I do not want to repeat all the arguments that I have made here. I just want to draw my attention to the most important thing. [[11.10 hours]] What bothers me most about EET, and not just me, is that EET has become a symbol of distrust of entrepreneurs. In order to create a social demand for EET-type measures, or for online control of entrepreneurs, this mistrust was deliberately and artificially instigated. This led to an artificial division of society into entrepreneurs and employees. People who work for themselves have been socially earmarked for this autonomy and automatically negatively labeled. At the same time, their daily efforts and activities are a prerequisite for our state's economic prosperity. And for this activity, they are rewarded with permanent mistrust in quotation marks, and the massive majority of honest entrepreneurs are clearly annoyed by it, because it has reached them. And that is the biggest scar on the face of society, and it will be very hard to heal this scar. And all in the name of what? We were promised huge money, which EET will bring - 18 billion, 10 billion. For the first and second waves, they say we build schools, kindergartens, highways. And what is the reality? According to the State Final Account for 2017, it was 4.1 billion. VAT. This is not enough for free lunches or fare discounts. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] Now there are other amounts in the media for 2018, but all these alleged returns are actually on the water. Madam Secretary here has confirmed to me that no one can determine with 100% certainty whether the recorded sales are obtained thanks to EET, a sales that was previously withheld or registered because a new customer came to the entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u3	Dear House, I beg you to keep your voice down so that the Member can speak to all those who want to listen to him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u4	Mr President, thank you very much. This means that no one with 100% certainty can determine whether the registered revenue is registered because it was previously hidden or registered because a new customer came to the entrepreneur or bought more. The calculation methodology is based solely on hypotheses, not on facts. And I believe that larger sales are achieved precisely because we are in economic growth, because people make more money, because they make more money, so they spend more money. That is why the EET's impact on the state's income is overrated and the revenue figures, which means fiscal benefits to the state budget, are debatable. At the same time, these data are presented to the public as facts. However, the fact that is not too high is the billion-dollar costs that entrepreneurs had to incur and, if the third and fourth waves were adopted, they would have to spend to actually pay for their own control. It's actually an absurd approach that someone else will pay the cost of my return. Moreover, absolute inadequate fines contribute to the absurdity of the system, such as the fact that someone did not adjust time from summer to winter, or entrepreneurs punish themselves for the mistakes of their employees. This does not really contribute to a favourable business environment. And you want to burden another hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs with the third and fourth waves. Ladies and gentlemen, businessmen aren't just a donkey the state can shake forever to make money fall out of it. The true value of entrepreneurs for society is something else. Offering us their services creates values in society and contributes to the national economy. For these reasons, I just want to recall our proposal to reject this amendment at first reading, let it be shown who really thinks well of businessmen and entrepreneurs and a friendly business environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u5	Thank you. President Okamura will now speak with priority in front of those Members who are enrolled in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the EET Act has been a bad solution to the problem that remains since the beginning. Therefore, the SPD has proposed from the outset the introduction of a flat-rate tax for small businessmen, as is the case in Germany. The state has its own, tradesmen are not unnecessarily burdened and bureaucracy is not rising on both sides. However, the government of YES, ČSSD, KSČM and in the past KDU-ČSL rejects this and, on the contrary, suffocates businessmen and small entrepreneurs as much as possible. Neither did the promised positive expectations for the state budget come true. EET thus basically increased the cost of operating the business and at the same time decreased part of the revenue that the traders had. At the same time, the proposed bill addresses the constitutional court's reservations to the existing EET Act and at the same time brings rather unsystemically tax relief on VAT through selected trades. That's supposed to correct the damage to businessmen who are well aware of the government. Of course, the government comes as usual with a bad and very unsystemic solution. The smallest are not VAT payers, so the proposed reduction in the VAT rate will not help them. I'm gonna stay a little longer with the VAT rates. I'm impressed with water VAT. Water, in my opinion, is the property of all of us citizens of the Czech Republic, and to parasite on the need for life, such as water, seems just rude on the part of the state. What will the government privatize and tax next time? Air? The fact that air is not taxed is only because the Ministry of Finance and Prime Minister Babiš did not invent a way to measure consumption. The government looks like it wants to improve citizens' lives, but at the same time it does the opposite. Life makes it harder, harder and more expensive for citizens. There is no need to collect VAT on water under the pretext of having higher pensions. It is enough to make the elderly' lives cheaper and to cancel such VAT on such items. There is no need for subsidies to entrepreneurs or investment incentives, it is enough not to complicate them and to make them more expensive. I have another idea, although unfortunately difficult to implement in the current political situation in our country and in Europe. It would simply like to abolish VAT and instead introduce a simple turnover tax. There would be no endless tax evasion in connection with VAT and there would be no work for bureaucrats and would save companies and the state. It is a well-known model in developed countries outside the European Union. We are facing an economic recession and, apparently, a crisis in the near future. At such a time, the economy is not stabilized by the overcrowded state bureaucracy and complicated tax system, but by hundreds of thousands of small businesses who can feed themselves. We should be glad and grateful for everyone who feeds on their own and help them to the maximum, not as today, when the government punishes businessmen and small entrepreneurs and wipes them out, whether it is in the form of EETs, high taxes, or bureaucracy. For the reasons set out above, the members of the SPD will vote in favour of rejecting this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u7	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mrs Valachová apologizes for today's meeting from 11:30 to 14:00. We will continue the general debate. Mr Ferjenčík is next, Mr Polanský will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just suggested that we remove this item from the agenda, because it really does not seem fair to me that we are jumping over other laws that have been passed earlier. Extras of teachers for classrooms - I think it's more useful than the third and fourth EETs. Likewise, Metro D is a building that is needed and it needs legislation to be changed in order for it to be operational. Today the metro cannot ride without a driver, the Prague Council has already voted in the past period that it wants to build subway D without a driver because it is cheaper and more economical. For this reason, logically, Petr Dolínek suggested that the law allow the operation of a special railway without a driver, but unfortunately this House does not discuss his proposal, although it has the number 191, which means it was filed before this proposal. Marriage for all, equalizing hundreds of thousands of citizens, a law that does no harm and helps a lot of people. Again - presented significantly earlier than other waves of EET, and this House is not dedicated to him. I think it's a mistake that it's not the proper procedure from this House to push some things into force and other laws haven't been discussed, and I can't agree with that. [[11.20 hours]] I will try to mention a number of other things that bothers me that the government in this forceful way promotes the introduction of a third and fourth EET wave, where it is quite evident that there will be legitimate opposition. What bothers us, above all, is that the law makes the business conditions worse for a number of people, and it won't work in practice. If it were just some parametric adjustment where we disagree about some amount of benefits or taxes, where no one is involved in life or business. But since this law will adversely affect hundreds of thousands of people, I think it is appropriate to make very detailed arguments against this law and to draw attention to the much more important problems of this country, to which, because the government is trying to introduce the third and fourth waves of EET, we do not have time and capacity. The fundamental problem of the third and fourth EET wave is that it is not functional. Although I do not agree with the first and second waves, I must admit that it is possible to check whether employees and restaurant operators issue receipts or do not issue receipts, while it is simply not possible in practice for those free professions. Stanjura here gave an example of a room painter. I don't think it's easy for the tax administration to have a fictitious room painted. And I think the painter would have to be completely crazy if he didn't know that the guy didn't really want to paint the room, but he's a controller. At all, the idea that there's gonna be a checker who's checking to see if the room painters issue receipts is just freaking out. And whether the craftsman is honest and gives the receipt, or is not honest and does not issue the receipt, will not in any way affect whether he has an EET machine or not. Just when an EET has a machine and doesn't issue a receipt, the state doesn't collect taxes when an EET has a machine and issues a receipt, it picks them out just like it would if it didn't have an EET machine. And my suspicion is that, in fact, the whole law is being passed only because of the manufacturers of those EET machines who are the only ones who make big money on it. It's just that the lobby companies that are going to run those systems that all the businessmen in our country will have to buy, even though they absolutely don't need them, absolutely don't need them, it won't help them in any way in their business, and they'll have to buy them, they'll have to pay their traffic out of their money completely senseless, and it won't really increase their choice. What's more, those businessmen who might end up doing those services. Today, some tradesmen may be underserving, but there are few. There is a big problem in Prague to get craftsmen, but also in the Republic, there is a higher percentage of craftsmen of older age who ensure the functioning of the municipalities. And now the government is driving them out of the market, and it can actually reduce their tax income if they retire early. The measure is completely absurd. I would expect that at the moment the first and second waves went through the force, and unlike the third and fourth, they stood up to the Constitutional Court, and I stress that the third and fourth waves did not stand up to the Constitutional Court, so that in this situation the government would at least do something for those businesses that are now burdened by the first and second waves. I would expect the Ministry of Finance to create software that will simplify accounting for EET companies, for example, that it will be possible to link tax records to EET or accounting to EET, that the government will have software delivered to it, and that the EET operators will somehow simplify life. This was the path of repression, everyone just has to implement the EET device across the board, but there is absolutely no benefit for those operators from the Ministry. The Ministry has in no way helped the companies that EET has burdened. Bureaucracy has grown rapidly, but there have been no steps at all to give something in return, some help, tax simplification, tax simplification. A typical example is that the government canceled the joint collection point project for social insurance and taxes. Today, hundreds of millions of key government projects are being done My taxes, where we are in the first stage, and the first stage is to be launched sometime in 2021. He doesn't count on social security integration at all. So here we have several thousand civil servants who collect income taxes, several thousand civil servants who collect social security. Instead of bringing the agenda together and saving money, the government is unable to implement it in three years, even though the law was to come into effect in 2016. Instead, it introduces measures that make hundreds of thousands of people's lives miserable. In short, I'm going to go through a few circles, an area where I think the government should make a lot more effort than it does, and only after it does, I think it makes sense to talk about EET, which, let's face it, is completely marginal in the total state budget. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] Heading number one: publication of contracts. In April, the pirát submitted a law on the publication of contracts. He's still stuck in second reading. The Coalition has repeatedly surrounded him. And here we're talking about billions and hundreds of billions of public money that are out of control. CEZ cooked several billion in Bulgaria for first buying the power plant, operating the power plant for several years, then selling it as scrap, so that after CEZ sold it at the residual price, it would lose several billion so that the private operator would start it up again and start making money on it again. This is happening in the Czech Republic. Andrej Babiš is responsible. And the coalition is absolutely blocking the law on the publication of contracts by ČEZ, which we submitted many and many months ago. The House press 50 is still hanging in committees, obstructions are underway in the House, and instead the House press 205 is pushing in, 155 places further than our publication of contracts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u9	I'm going to interrupt you for a moment, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. There's too much noise to go on. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u10	Thank you, Mr President, for helping to be able to listen a little. Another area that is stuck in the House: nomination law. We have submitted an amendment to the Nomination Act against tobacco shops in state companies so that state firms have ownership policy. Today, the fact that the government is throwing out key directors of state companies, such as the Czech Post, is quite common. I'm not saying the mail works well. I don't think he's working. At least at management level. I think that a lot of times those staff overloads do what they can to deliver the letters, but management is just not very good there. But instead of the government saying what the company is supposed to do, which is supposed to meet the criteria, and judging the management, instead, they're just gonna trade the director, he's gonna say it was for a loss of trust. Or she'll do an audit. Just everybody knows, in this country, the way it works is that if you want to fire someone, you do an audit so they get fired, if you want to hold someone, you do an audit so you can hold them. And it's a crutch of those crucial officials to make their decision, but in fact, the decision was made long before the audit. Instead of being a transparent ownership policy of state companies, when the state says: The Czech Railways have as much money to carry as many passengers as possible for the amount of money they have; or České dráhy are to provide the highest quality services and in this way improve the quality of services to maintain the scope of transport; Or the Czech Railways are supposed to have as much operating profit as possible - it is simply a decision that the government is to make, as the state company that provides some public service is supposed to work, and according to the performance of the public service it is supposed to reward managers - so instead of the government dealing with this problem that concerns hundreds of billions, where, for example, in Prague - I am unfortunately talking about Prague, because I have experience from Prague's municipal policy, so the ANO representatives took more than the Prime Minister in those supervisory councils - so instead of dealing with the problem of the factories that are actually costing our economy billions and billions, I gave the example of ČEZ in Bulgaria, we could talk about ČEZ in Albania, we could talk about some transactions of ČEZ in our country, we can talk about the purchase of solar power plants, we can talk about a whole number of other state companies, the Czech Railways also have butter on their head - so instead of the government ensuring the publication of contracts of these companies, so here to the power pressure EET. Another problem: a very key law on digital service. Today, the state administration is absolutely not engaged in digitalisation. A lot of forms that should be enough to load from ID are filled out ten times. I'm being approached by employees of the employment office, it's incredible that a citizen comes to them, fills out a form, and then they send him to the next window, fills out exactly the same information in the next form. And that's the way the citizen does the postman's office instead of circling documents. We, together with the ICT Union and the ODS and other Members, have prepared a draft law on digital service, which requires state institutions to communicate electronically with citizens. I think it is a very key law for progress in this area of state-friendlyness towards citizens. Today, it is absolutely common for a person who wants to go to the office to take a leave of absence. Just that today people have to take vacations to get to the office is unacceptable at a time when 90 percent of the agenda could be resolved over the Internet. That is why, together with other Members, together with the ICT Union, we have prepared the Digital Service Act, which will solve the problem that a lot of details are written in the laws, which leads to the fact that the digitization of individual laws is very difficult. So instead, we want to order government institutions across the board to allow for electronic access. Unfortunately, the Home Office has begun to enforce the law. I understood that at a time when Mr. Hamáček still had the Foreign Office, so logically he didn't have much time to engage in the interior, but now I would hope for a more helpful approach. The Minister is shaking his head in dissent, so I'm hoping he'll set things straight here. But I would very much advocate that, unlike EET, this law, which is really from the state of maritimes, which unfortunately makes hundreds of thousands of people's lives miserable. A very related matter with regard to the digitization of the state administration, the citizen-friendlyness, is the electronisation of building procedures. In the Czech Republic, yesterday it was mentioned here in the discussion of the budget, I do not know if we are 155th country in the length of construction proceedings. I think they're making fun of us that Papua New Guinea is ahead of us or some states like that. Here in the last parliamentary term, there was an ambitious project that amended the construction process, that everything is being electronized, that everything will be simplified. Nothing's been done. The only result of the whole amendment was that one mandatory stamp was added to the 40 that had been there before. And all those 40 institutions have to go around alone, because the authorities don't have the electronic file, they don't have the documents in electronic form. And the only reason a citizen doesn't work is because the government doesn't work. And that's the problem we're supposed to be dealing with. The increase in real estate prices in Prague, but also in the rest of the Republic, is jumping. There was a huge debate about the measures the CNB is taking on mortgages and housing availability. But the conclusion agreed by all economists was that the primary reason for this huge increase in housing prices in the Czech Republic in recent years is precisely this incredibly long construction process. It takes about one year to start a bank in the Czech Republic. You need about one year to set up a bank. There are such details as that you need about half a billion crowns or something, but the authorisation process for setting up a bank is one year. How is it possible that the permit process for building an apartment building in the Czech Republic is seven years old? This is a crucial problem that burns far more people than the EET, which has far greater budgetary implications than the EET and which the government absolutely ignores. Instead, he's giving us a prescription that only makes a few hundred thousand people's lives miserable, but it doesn't really help anyone. In fact, one group will greatly help, I mentioned that already, these are the EET cashiers. Then they're the only ones who appreciate it. The problem of digitising the building process is incomparably significant. And I fear that the government will instead spend its political capital on this pointless fight over the EET. I can follow up on a very related problem: the Line Construction Act. This House sometimes faces, and we say that too when it says what has been done to enforce that we have made a law on speeding up construction. But in fact, even though the law itself has made some positive progress, it does not solve the problem as a whole. [[11.40 hours]] The solution to the problem of land purchase when we already have a territorial decision is marginality compared to the process of obtaining the territorial decision. That's why the government was supposed to break the Linen Construction Act, and it had it in the programming declaration for the past four years. I repeat, this is exactly the same coalition as it was four years ago. And instead of introducing the Line Buildings Act, which actually solves line constructions from the start, that is, from the decision on the route of the highway, high-speed rail, railway corridor or important I. class roads, and in order to solve the process from the start, we have adopted such a hot-fix, such a simple solution which, however, concerns only a very small part of these buildings. Because most of the key buildings aren't nearly as far away as the Act on Acceleration of Construction assumes, and we need that Linen Construction Act. How is it that in Denver, the capital of Colorado, they can build 50 railway stops in one term? 50 railway stops in four years - this is supposed to be the ambition of the Czech Republic that during one election period, so that Minister Ťok does not cry here, that he needs five years to prepare constructions, another five years to build it, and another five years to open motorways, when 50 railway stops in one city in one city in four years, as it is possible that the government here promises that a reasonable railway connection between Prague and Brno will be first in 2035, and that is still an optimistic term. [[There's a huge noise in the hall and very poor audibility!]] In 2012, I pointed out the problem that there was a lack of underpass between the main railway station and the University of Žižkov, which would simplify access to the main railway station in Prague to hundreds of thousands of people. The problem here has been x dozens of years, and if everything goes well, next year maybe it'll start building, it's a simple construction, it was SŽDC with priority no. 2 and it took seven years for the simple construction to begin at all, and I hope that it will be completed at all during this parliamentary term. It's about ten years to build one underpass. And we want to build high-speed railroads in this state, we want to build a network of highways in this state. We have a government budget here, I don't know the name of the construction plan, it's probably Marek Prchal's idea of what it's gonna be called, it's a misconception, I didn't remember. [[Jolly in the ranks of members of the YES.]] Here it promises to invest 3 trillion crowns, that's about two state budgets in ten years. And it's in a country where construction takes ten years to prepare. I don't understand how you think you're going to invest the money without making the relevant legislative changes and simplifying the construction process, digitizing it, shortening the deadlines for the authorities, paying dignifiedly qualified officials what they're doing at the construction offices so they know what's beating so we can get qualified people from the private sector there. I don't want to touch the enthusiasts who do it for the money they're getting, I wouldn't want that. But it just takes a whole series of measures to even hope that highways and high-speed railroads will stand up. And here you are, jamming the EET House, which does not solve any structural problems of the Czech Republic at all. [[The noise in the hall is always huge!]] Another problem: the barking calamity caused by the unprofessional administration of state forests. [[Jolly in the ranks of members of the YES.]] We just have billions of state property in front of us, and the government isn't paying attention to it. Yesterday, there were no adjustments to the budget for the benefit of the environment. It's a huge problem in this country, and instead, the government is pushing a completely absurd EET again. What is an even more serious problem than barking calamity is the tragic drought situation in the Czech Republic, especially in South Moravia. The only thing the government is doing in this area is pushing the Vltava-Odra-Labe project absurdly, the shipping channel that's gonna take the water out of the Republic faster, so the drought problem's gonna cancel out, and it's gonna get a little worse. There is a huge problem with drought, which the government does not pay attention to, where it is necessary to solve problems both agriculture and the environment. Yesterday, the state budget voted, the money for land adjustments failed, we do not solve the absolutely structural problems of Czech agriculture, where the Grand Councils are leading to the removal of water from the countryside and it is aggravating drought. The government is fighting against the ceiling of subsidies, which could change the structure of Czech agriculture in the long term so that it is a larger proportion of smaller owners who have smaller fields, which are more suitable in relation to the drainage of water from the landscape. Again, the drought problem is incomparably more serious than the EET. Here, the PR team of Andrej Babiš simply came up with a virtual theme because, as I said at the beginning of my speech, whether someone has an EET checkout or not, whether they issue a receipt or not, there are things that are absolutely unrelated to each other. So Andrej Babiš here made up this theme, like he's gonna be doing the best tax collector in the world, because he didn't think of anything to collect good taxes, but he was lucky because economic growth came along, so he collected them well and so he accepted the EET. The Treasury is doing an analysis of how it's going terribly well, and everyone's looking at how it all works, but it's actually a virtual problem that's taking us away from incomparably more important problems. I was talking about the structure of Czech agriculture, of course there is no logical will to do this, because the Prime Minister is profiting from the system of subsidies for large businessmen in agriculture, so he probably has no reason to deal with it, nor does he have reason to reduce the water drain from his fields at his own expense. That's why we at least supported the proposal for land adjustments. Unfortunately, the government coalition blocked it like all opposition proposals except the KSČM in yesterday's vote on the state budget. But what is even more serious is the problem of our economy than the barking calamity, drought or structural problems of agriculture, is the flow of capital from this country. [[The MP is silent because of the loud noise in the hall.]] The capital drain from the Czech Republic is the most serious economic problem we have today. Each year, approximately 400 billion crowns will disappear from the Czech Republic, 400 billion crowns will move from the Czech Republic to abroad. We cannot catch up with the European Union in a situation where the Czech economy's growth returns go abroad. This is CZK 400 billion, which is logically missing in our economy. We have already overtaken Luxembourg in this area. I think that the last state in the European Union, which has a larger capital drain, is Ireland, which, however, compensates for it by having Facebook, Google taxes and other foreign companies that do business throughout the European Union. Ireland, of course, has the opportunity to compensate the capital drain with the tax revenues it collects for 500 million people in the European Union. And thanks to the fact that five million Ireland collects taxes for 500 million people, so of course it pays them to give them very low taxes. Although they have a large capital drain, they are economically well off. [[11.50 hours]] The Czech Republic does not do such a thing. We are not a tax haven within the European Union. In our interest, tax havens are not within the European Union, let alone outside the European Union. It is absolutely unacceptable that companies that do business in some areas, so those who have their registered office here, pay billions of taxes, and those who do not have their registered office here, pay millions of taxes. And that's what usually happens in the digital service agenda. And really, the capital drain is a huge problem for the Czech economy. I have not received any relevant proposal in this area. Now, in House press 206, we are adopting some minor amendments to the tax package, European directives on money laundering are being implemented, but that is very small. The main thing that the government is supposed to do in this is to set up a specialized part of the tax administration, which will focus on the largest corporations in our country, so that at the moment that state officials are doing tax control at the best companies, so that they are top-level people, reasonably paid and actually qualified, ideally dragged out of those companies that make tax evasion, who will actually have a sense of how the leaks are going. Because when we look at the 400 billion that flow from the Czech Republic, every year 400 billion that flow from the Czech Republic, only a very low percentage of this amount is billions that relate to dividends. Only a fraction of that amount are dividends that are normally taxed on corporate taxes. For example, most proceeds go through interest on mothers, parent companies, or in other ways. We suspect that huge money is leaking through the fact that parent companies are actively supplying services or paying stamp fees and similar things that they can raise freely. And through this, in the Czech Republic, there are costs in tens of billions of crowns, through which the parent companies, and we are talking about the banking sector, we are talking about the telecommunications sector, we are talking about the web business sector by giant technological giants, we are talking about these companies, so through those internal transfers within the group, they optimize taxes throughout the European Union, or even bring it into tax havens outside the European Union. So even though the capital drain is CZK 400 billion, only a small share of the drain is through dividends and is properly taxed. Indeed, the Ministry of Finance did not do anything in this area. I'm going back to the core of today's press, this is where the tax combine is made for small businessmen. Small businessmen are under tremendous pressure from the state, they are overwhelmed by bureaucracy. A bizarre example of what is happening: the government refused to raise spending flats to two million in order to vote them backwards four months later, and again wanted to raise them this time, which we welcome, therefore, is that the flats will be treated at the level of two million, except with the terrible disadvantage that one year will only be a million. So there was a completely absurd situation where spending flats were two million, one year down to one million, and the next year there are two million. And in a place like this, these entrepreneurs are supposed to work. There's some preposterous stuff going on here. There is no systematic approach to tax evasion by large companies. There is no government strategy to reduce capital inflows from the Czech Republic in the long term, which is our biggest economic problem today. That's why. If we can solve this problem, we don't have to deal with pension reform. If we could get that 400 billion into our economy, we'd have 150 billion of it for pensions, and aging the population wouldn't be such a pressing problem, which is what it is. And instead, there's an EET that only bullies our citizens. Instead of dealing with tax evasion into tax havens in tens of billions, with a capital drain of hundreds of billions, we're trying desperately to pick out some billions of units where we still have very serious doubts about the methodology. We're getting an analysis done to verify those numbers from the Treasury Department. But those are the words of President Zeman's total pussy. The government acts like absolute peekers in relation to what's a real problem, that's the giant capital drain, and in relation to what's a virtual problem, and that's just if we bully small craftsmen in the villages and force them to get lobbied EET cashiers from some suppliers connected to the Chamber of Commerce. That's just gonna come up with the whole unfortunately set priorities for the government. [[There's still a lot of noise in the hall!]] I've come to pension reform. In the government programming declaration, pension reform is among the first six priorities. Until now, we have not noticed any legislative initiative at all in this area. The only legislation adopted in the area of pensions was to increase pensions primarily to low-income pensioners, which, of course, the pirát supported, because, at the time of economic conjucture, everyone, including our pensioners, is to profit from it. However, at the same time, we need to address the long-term sustainability of the pension system. Either we can solve it on the revenue side, that is, the problem of the capital drain, which I have been talking about quite in detail, or we have to deal with the fact that at a time when the pension system is in surplus, and hopefully it will last a few more years in that surplus, so we have to make reserves for worse times. There are a number of economic models to deal with this. For example, Norway is buying real estate around the world and is going to pay its pension to Norwegian pensioners when they run out of oil and gas. Of course, we don't have oil and gas, but at this point, we have a surplus pension system. And instead of saving the surplus for future pensioners at a time when today's strong years are retiring - while today's 45-year-olds are 200,000 in their class, today's 30s are between 100 and 150,000. So the demographic curve is absolutely relentless. And to think that the problem sort of solves itself, as I sometimes hear from the left side of the spectrum, is just a total illusion. In 15 years, 200,000 people will retire each year, and those 200,000 people will want to receive a dignified pension. And if we don't deal with this for 15 years, we won't be able to give it to them. So in 15 years, we're in a lot of trouble, but unfortunately, the government isn't handling it. She probably doesn't expect to rule in 15 years when this problem needs to be solved. But at this time alone, before these strong years retire, we have some scope for a structural solution, where the state's income structure may change, we can talk about a more consistent mining tax where we could get some money or just the capital drain, or that we're investing the surplus from now on into real estate. [[12.00 hours]] Instead, we are dealing with total marginality in relation to the state budget and the sustainability of the pension system. And although pension reform is among the six priorities of the government's programming statement, there is absolutely nothing going on in that area. According to my information, the MPSV does not process anything at all, and indeed, not such a trivial issue as the integration of pension insurance payments and income taxes is not taking place, certainly not in this parliamentary term, which, by the way, is one way the state could save several billion crowns a year on officials who employ two identical agendas at two different ministries. Another serious problem in our economy is extreme labour taxation. We have a marginal tax rate of 48,6 percent, I think. That's if we don't count the discounts. People, say, in the upper middle class, in salaries above 70 grand, pay taxes of about 45 percent if we count social insurance, health insurance, and personal income taxes. If we take the tax burden of labor on people who earn up to CZK 100,000, because then millionaires dug up better conditions, so if we take those people who make around 80 grand, they pay taxes of 45 percent, respectively. The cost of their employer's work is almost double what these people get on the payroll. This tax structure is simply extremely inappropriate. It leads to people not being paid to work. Even the poorest employees pay 35 percent taxes. I find it completely absurd that we take 30 percent of their earnings to give them benefits. It's just a completely absurd system. It's even more absurd if people who make extra money lose their benefits and cut their total income. We have these huge problems in our tax system. We can't get people to the job market at all, I can get to the problem, it's more serious than EET, we have structural problems like this in the tax system, and again... Mr. Faltýnek, please, I am trying to convince you here that the EET is not supposed to be a priority law to be adopted for the Czech Republic, and I think that the topics that I am opening here are much more important, all of them, so please do not interrupt! [[Laughter and applause in the ranks YES 2011]] Thank you. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] So we have structural problems with the way in which in the Czech Republic taxes work. Just labor taxes are extremely high in the Czech Republic, really extremely high, and instead of dealing with this issue, the issue of people with low incomes that aren't worth working, we're looking at billions of units here, who knows if. Digitisation of the state administration. We have noticed the significant budget item of nearly CZK 2 billion, which our government will spend on letters, and indeed in the 21st century, spending 2 billion a year on letters does not strike me as a good business card of the Czech Republic. I've been there at community level. It is simply a common state of the state of today's administration that the representative will give an initiative to the council as a digitally signed PDF, machine readable, sends a proposal for his point to return as a scanned printed PDF as part of the agenda of the same council. The government itself absurdly adds to its work by constantly printing and scanning documents, which it transfers from hand to hand in various ways. It makes it impossible, for example, for more people to sign the document at once, so the documents are circulating from person to person when more people are collecting signatures. The whole process is stalling, misinterpreting, and one of the government's six priorities was digitization. We want digitalization, we want modernization, and instead EET is being dealt with here again, which is simply bullying some people, but these fundamental problems of the Czech Republic don't solve it at all. [[laughter in the ranks of the Pirates]] Another area in which we absolutely lag behind, after all, when we look at the competitiveness of the Czech Republic, so we are quite well there, that we are somewhere in the first 50 countries of the world, but in that state of state we are deep in the second hundred. And it is one of the reasons why we are not growing as fast as we can, and it is one of the reasons that prevents us from catching up with Western Europe, in addition to the problem of capital drain, but the digitalisation of the government is an easier problem to solve. The government is pretending to be its priority, and nothing is happening in this area. Another government priority that we find in the programming statement: balancing the state budget. There's a balanced budget in this state's government statement. So, according to the government's statement, we are not to produce deficits, but, contrary to the government's programming statement, the government pushed a budget with a deficit of 40 billion yesterday, and the same deficits of 40 billion are in the budgetary perspective. So there's no plan to balance the budgets, plus according to estimates by the Ministry of Finance and other organizations that estimate revenue for next year, so maybe it won't be as famous as the government predicted in August, and we're actually losing the chance to get the state budget into some sensible shape. When we look at the National Budget Board's report on the sustainability of public finances, the Czech Republic is worse prepared for the economic crisis than it was in 2008. If the economic crisis in Western Europe were to come now, the Czech budgets would fall into deficits at the level of CZK 300 billion per year in the very short term of the years. And we're absolutely not dealing with any reserve to make sure that when the crisis comes, the state built high-speed lines that aren't ready, because we don't have a Line Construction Act so that it can fight the internal demand for the effects of the crisis, so that construction companies that suddenly don't have private-sector contracts can work for the state. Instead of making reserves for these worse times, the spending of the state is constantly increasing, the operating expenditure of the state is constantly increasing. The government has resigned absolutely to search for savings. It simply joined everyone across the board, then somehow selectively joined the individual chapters. For example, we agreed and we were glad that the government added teachers, because the deficit in education is extreme, but otherwise, in general, it was simply a budget that could be prepared by the administrative government. And while the government has a state budget settlement in its programming statement, it does not take steps to really balance it. [[12.10 hours]] I have already mentioned the problem of executions, which I will now get a close closer look at. We have 900,000 people trapped in debt. Nine hundred thousand people that we cannot reasonably integrate into the labour market. They are in a very difficult situation as a result of a poorly set execution system in the Czech Republic. This is, in our view, a fundamental problem for this country, these 900,000 people who do not have a very good life perspective, on which the consensus of the government, the opposition, of all parties in the House should really be sought, so that we can really improve the situation. Because it's just a time bomb. The saddest part is, I've made a brief point here that these people aren't worth working for. 'Cause if they work, they're gonna lose their income. It's just that we have laws set up in the area of executions, where people still pay executions from debts created by the purposeful distribution of debts or by the purposeful distribution of fines in court. The amounts repaid exceed the original debts. Of course, debts are due, but when someone pays ten times or a hundred times the debt, it's not acceptable. There was a lady behind me in the Pardubice constituency who happened to lose her son's house over a tens of thousands debt, and he still had some debts left, so he still didn't get out of the execution carousel. This is the situation in the Czech Republic in 2018: 900 thousand people in an unsolvable situation, and we are dealing with a completely absurd law that only bullies several hundred thousand businessmen and brings almost nothing. Another fundamental problem of the Czech Republic, which the government does not solve, is the functioning of the judicial system, even the justice system, when the courts in the Czech Republic are extremely slow. We've got a whole series of lawsuits going on for decades. It was visible on the H-System case. That's where the criminals are out of jail, and the courts are still dealing with it. This is an absolutely incredible state of law in the Czech Republic, the speed of justice in our country. And instead of really solving problems, we are dealing with EET here, which does not really help Czech companies. být conclude my speech by once again pointing out the extreme problem with the construction of infrastructure in the Czech Republic. It is simply necessary to find a legislative consensus on how to build motorways faster, high-speed railroads, how to build a backbone infrastructure that is very backward in the Czech Republic. That's the kind of thing I think the government should invest energy into. This is indeed a matter on which we need to find a political consensus across this House. Besides, the government's PR investment plan depends entirely on whether or not this match can be found. And I'm sorry that instead of the government investing its energy in this law, in improving the possibilities of building key infrastructure projects, it goes to the power here with EET, which is completely marginal, as I have shown here in a number of examples, areas that I think we should focus on much more priority. I could go on for a long time, but at this point, I think I've made quite a lot of arguments. For the last time, I will repeat that there are three bills that have been passed before this House press. They're extras to school teachers, it's allowing the subway to ride without a train driver, it's a marriage for everyone. I think it would be fair for us to settle these first and then deal with this proposal, ideally only in a very long time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u11	Now, before I put the space on the actual notes that I have here three, we're doing a little work on the agenda here. Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček - replacement card number 5. Andrej Babiš, Prime Minister, has been apologizing since 11:45 a.m. from the morning meeting. Mr Marian Jurečka also apologizes until today 14.30 for working reasons. Mr Jan Řehounek apologizes further from 13:00 to the end of the day. She also apologizes to Mrs Markéta Adamová between 12.15 and 13.00 for work reasons. She also apologizes to Mrs Věra Kovářová between 11.15 and 13.00. I now have three factual points here, so I call on Mr Pavel Plzák to speak. Subsequently, Mr Mikuláš Peksa and subsequently Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u12	Thank you for the floor. I managed to listen to my colleague Ferjenčík's speech, and I got the impression that he was completely off topic, just like my colleagues. I understand that he is unable to see this, but in that case, I would ask the President if, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you would warn him that he is off the subject. And another thing, short and last time - the newspeak, like somebody cooked something. I am an old generation and I have a classic education, I would like you to use either writing terms through Mr President or to explain it to me afterwards, those expressions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u13	Next in line, we have Mr Mikuláš Peksa with a de facto view. Furthermore, President Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u14	Good afternoon. I would like to thank, through the President, my previous speaker and the namesake, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, for finally finding the courage and patience here to name a number of more important problems than any EET that this House should be dealing with. I've only got one little factual warning. The Communist Party is by no means an opposition party. The Communist Party is a coalition party. The Coalition is an alliance that promotes agendas together. We have clearly seen here that the Communists, each other, voted in favour of the government's trust. So please don't say that the Communists are opposition. Communists are part of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u15	Another de facto chairman of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip. Petr Fiala, Chairman of the ODS. Zdeněk Ondráček from KSČM and Mr Chvojka. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u16	Thank you. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. Here we saw a contradiction of words and actions. Members of the pirate party have full transparency, but they will object to anything against the law that transparency brings because the EET does not suit them. It is probably more important for them to benefit from electronic currency for state money and so on. So exactly, they don't want it, they tried a little awkward, or maybe even more awkward attempt to challenge the law to be discussed. And their priorities may not be our priorities. And we have as strong a mandate from citizens as they do. Each of us two hundred Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u17	In addition, Chairman of the ODS and Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala. Please, your two minutes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u18	Hello, Mr President. I respond to Mr Plzák's speech. I am not now acting as President of the ODS, but as Vice-President of the House, who has been in charge of the previous negotiations. Mr President, I object to your objection because Mr Ferjenčík spoke to the point and there was no way or reason for the President to intervene in any way. And please, I understand that you may not like what Mr Ferjenčík said, but he has every right to say so. And that speech didn't go out of the speeches that we call speaking to the point. If I were to apply or one of the presidents to your strict view of the matter and what you consider to be speaking to the point and not speaking to the point, I must warn you that the President of this meeting would probably have to take the floor away almost every time you speak to the President of your movement. And that's a thing none of us want.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u19	So I will add for myself, too, because at that point I was in the chair that I also think that in the general debate, Mr Ferjenčík did not seem to be following the context. And I, as the President, do not really want to judge the context in which he puts his appearance, and I think it was also in my view. So another point of fact, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, followed by Mr Chvojka and then Mr Kopřiva. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Your way to Mr Peks. See which of the members of the KSČM put their trust in this government. It was not 15 Members. You don't care, because you only want to say it on the microphone, but you can also apologize for the microphone. I didn't trust this government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u21	That was Mr. Ondráček. Now, then, Mr Chvojka. Your two minutes, you have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u22	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It's noon! Jesus, that was a long speech from my colleague Ferjenčík. Well, I wanted to respond to my colleague Ferjenčík through the Vice-President. That speech was long. It seems to me like we're discussing government trust, which we had a month ago, virtually. distrust, because my colleague took it as a little bit from Šumava to Tatras, from crust to other problems, so I don't think it was entirely in line with what we're discussing, but I'm not denying anyone the right to say what they want. On the other hand, we as ČSSD, even though we're a coalition party, are waiting for the next point, that's the situation on D1. If you've noticed, when I went from Břevnov to the House this morning, snow began to fall again! I wonder what the situation is at the Department of Transport, what the situation is. I'd like to get to that point. And I believe that not only the ČSSD, but also the other parties. So, please, pirates, and I don't give them the right to say anything to any point here, so we can move on to the next one, in our opinion, also a very important point. I think that point is very important to you, too. After all, I noticed your reaction on Tuesday, and it's something that bothers you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u23	That was Mr. Ambassador Chvojka. So now I have three applications for the facts. I am the first to call on Mr Kopřiva, Mr Peksa will be prepared, and I have Mr Válek as the third here. Your two minutes, then. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, good - good - good - good noon. [[Notes in plenary.]] It's afternoon, right. I would only like to respond briefly to one of the previous speakers, Mr. Filip, to clarify the concepts of transparency and stalking. So I understand that there used to be practice, that transparency may have been considered in certain times, or that it still considers having a file on someone, on some citizens, and collecting information, soliciting it from neighbors, etc. So this, please nicely, is not transparency in the concept of pirát. The way we imagine transparency here is that the state should be transparent. Because the state is made up of all of us, and we're all made up of it. He's providing us with some services. Therefore, the State should be transparent. On the contrary, individuals, citizens should have the right to privacy, and it is the EET that goes against it. EET goes in that direction that the state collects information in bulk and collects data about citizens and treats them somehow. So I would like to clarify the concept of transparency and privacy in the concept of KSČM and Pirates. So for me, EET is definitely not about transparency, but about collecting data from citizens, and it seems pointless. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u25	I now call on Mr Peksa, Mr Válek, to prepare. There's another fact that came up for me - Mr. Mr. Juránek. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u26	I would like to apologise to Mr Ondráček by your means, Mr President. I appreciate that within the KSČM parliamentary club there is a communist who does not vote for the government, for the trust of the government with the richest or most powerful capitalist in this country. In that sense, I think the world is still a little bit okay. However, as far as I know, Mr Ondráček, through Mr President, you voted against the mistrust of the government when this vote was repeated. So maybe I'm afraid I'm confused by this little thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u27	So now Mr Válek, Mr Juránek, will be prepared and I have an actual Mr Ondráček. So, Congressman, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u28	Thank you. I, through Mr President, would like to follow up on Mr Chvojka's fellow Member and support his D1 proposal. I just got a call from the kids: "tatínek, are you coming?" D1 stands. [[The noise in the hall.]] We've only got half an hour. That is why I would suggest that we continue tomorrow until one procedural interruption in the discussion of the current point and the current inclusion of the situation from D1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u29	Now, Mr. Juránek. Sorry. Procedural design. I'll have you all checked out. We will take the vote. [[From the diaper, they say, "Gong!"]] I've already begun. So, if I understand the procedural proposal correctly, the procedural proposal is that we want to interrupt this point and start discussing the D1 point. So that's the proposal we're going to vote on. And after we discuss the D1 proposal, we would return to this point. But that won't be part of the proposal. So just interrupt and start point D1. So we all know what we're voting on. I'll see if we've settled the deal. I think it's a bit of a jump, but I think we can take the vote now. [[Registered 139.]] So I'm opening the vote. Whoever is to interrupt this point, press the button, raise your hand. Whoever is opposed to interrupting this point, press the button, raise your hand. Voting number 262, 152 Members signed in, for 66, against 78. The motion for an interruption has been rejected. So we're going to continue at this point. And now, with a point of fact, I have Mr Juránek here, and that is the last point in fact so far. So please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u30	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to stand up for my colleague Ferjenčík on the issue concerning the crust. You know, I've had one thing in my life, whether or not it has an EET connection, consider it yourself. But I had a wonderful experience in the woods once. That once under the previous regime they decided that lumberjacks would have cutters on the tree where they work, in the workplace. You know, it was a very interesting measure. And this measure, of course, led to the fact that a tree fell unexpectedly on the first week of the cutting machines. You know, it happens so sometimes in the woods, those lumberjacks who normally hit the stake, they just don't hit it, it gets tight. When it happened the third time, it decided to cancel the lumberjack cutters. And on this occasion alone, I think it has something to do with the EET. Because they're not cutters, but we should also think about whether the EET is about the same meaning as the woodcutter cutters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u31	Then, with a factual remark, I have two applications. Mr Petr Gazdík and Mr Marek Benda will be prepared. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u32	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I am very sorry that he failed to pass the procedural proposal to find out what the real situation on D1 is when it snows. Therefore, I would like to propose a new interruption of this point until it stops snowing and there is no column on D1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u33	Well, we have a procedural proposal again, so I'm gonna go, but I think we're all still in the O.R. I will just repeat what will be voted on - the suspension of the amendment to the Act on Recording of Sales until it stops snowing. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Until it stops snowing and there's no column on D1. So I'll do it again. [[Room disturbance, applause.]] We will vote on whether you agree to suspend the negotiation of the item and the Sales Recording Act until it stops snowing on the D1 motorway and there is no motorcade. So I don't see the application for a check-out, I think we can proceed to the vote. I'm opening the vote on who's... There's a request. So I'll end the vote. I'll check you all out, sign up again with your voting cards... I think we all know what we're voting on. I'm opening the vote. Whoever is in favour of interrupting, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 264, registered by 156 Members, for 69, against 81. The proposal to interrupt the point until they're on the D1 motorway and stop snowing has passed. So we go back to the EET Act, and with a factual remark, I call on the Member and Chairman of the Constitutional Committee on Marek Benda. Okay, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u34	Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I only applied after Mr Juránek's speech because I am trying to study the linguistic differences here and there. And what he described, that is, in the territory of the capital, where I live my whole life, is called shanks, not bolt cutters. So I wanted to see if it was Juránek's typo, or if in Brno what is used to cut wires in Bohemia is used as pincers in the sense of pricks. But that was just one of my questions to my colleague Juránek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u35	There. And there's an interest in the reaction. So, Mr. Juránek. You will respond, specify your statement. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u36	I'll take the liberty of responding to this. It doesn't have anything to do with whether I'm from Moravia or whether I'm from Prague. But it's from the environment, you know. They don't say "fucks" among the lumberjacks, they say "fucks." They say "fucks." So it's more of a business that relates to the relevant field.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u37	That was Mr. Juránek. I don't have another factual one yet, so let's go back to the general debate. I therefore call on Mr Polanský to prepare Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u38	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I've already been crossed by a colleague of Válek, as well as a colleague of Gazdík. My aim was to propose a suspension of that point in order to get to paragraph 197 and discuss the situation on the D1 motorway, given the authenticity of the situation, the urgency of the situation. However, the vote has already taken place, I think there is no point in trying it a third time. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u39	Okay. And now the last application for the general debate. Member Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly respond to the comments from the debate, from the factual remarks. There were more, so I wanted to take it together. The first thing was the... Mr. Plzák, I believe, to talk. I admit that I find it a little unhappy when someone doesn't have arguments, so refer to the form that I sometimes talk in conversation, one time I had to apologize when I was speaking vulgarly, even though I didn't plan it and I just got a little carried away. However, I think that my speech was relevant enough to respond to it in a practical way. That someone had baked - I suspect that it was a reminder of the word they cooked. I don't know what he made them talk. So please, at least if you're giving examples of me speaking in words, at least give examples of these words because this wasn't the right example. I would really like my colleagues to look into this proposal in a factual way and address my objections. Furthermore, I must completely reject the claim that I was off topic. I'm here - that's not true at all. [[From the diaper it echoes: It was.]] I definitely wasn't off topic. Here, the government wants to force itself against the will of the whole opposition and the conscience of part of the coalition MEPs - it must be stressed that part of the current coalition MEPs, on the contrary, supported the revision of the EET at the level of the first and second waves. And I think that if we were to ask, as members of the YES, if Patrik Nacher is a supporter of the third and fourth EET wave, if it seems reasonable for him to expand further the EET or other Members, I do not want to continue to torment some of the members of the ČSSD club who are already in that government against their conscience, I will not name them here, but the government is pushing the law against which the whole opposition is, and a substantial part of the coalition Members have significant reservations against him, except they are afraid. And what I would point out. There are three laws that - and we're only talking about laws at first reading. Not to mention the contract register you're building, but it's not this case. But there are three laws, and there are more, but only three, which I personally strongly support, can give to other colleagues. Maybe the Post Office Act is also important, but I don't deal with the issue in more detail, so I'm not going to go behind the Post Office Act, which also has a lower serial number than EET, and maybe it would be more important to deal with it, but I don't understand it. But we have three laws here. One with the number of even 159 - extras for teachers for classrooms. That's just the thing... If the government doesn't want to raise the extras to the teachers for the classroom, then say no, but it just seems unfair to me when the EET is pushing it in front of it. It just isn't right for the government to roll the opposition and not put points on it at the hearing. That's why I came back logically. Likewise, subway D is incomparably more important for me, and I even think it is for the Czech Republic. It concerns Prague, but almost everyone goes to Prague from time to time, and improving the situation in Prague is a serious problem. And that is the key investment for CZK 80 billion. And the fact that the House is blocking it so that it can be implemented more effectively just doesn't seem appropriate to me. So that's House Press 191. And then there's House Press 201. This is marriage for all who are presented by Members across the clubs in this House, across coalitions and opposition. And once again, it's delayed here. So it seems unfair to me that the government here is pushing the law that was passed later and instead of going in order. The objection, then, that it was not to the point. That's just not true. First of all, there are the laws that need to be discussed, which have been passed earlier. And secondly, I have presented a list of problems that are incomparably more serious for Czech society than EET. And it is quite obvious that, especially in the third reading of the EET, there will be a huge controversy in this House. [[12.40 hours]] I do not think that, in the context of the details of the debate, we would be much more in excess of the current debate at all. After all, if we took a debate on a fiscal pact, it was longer in my opinion. At least a number of colleagues have been speaking to her for incomparably longer than I have. I have prepared a very detailed list of issues which I consider to be significantly more important, which the Government is supposed to address, which the Chamber of Deputies will address, and I find it very unfortunate that it is said to be off topic. This is not out of the question about which laws we are to approve priorityally and which we are to leave in the end. So when you give it to everyone for marriage, when these three proposals have been made earlier, let's vote on the first reading. We've put forward a motion to dismiss, it can be settled. But let's face the injustice that KDU-ČSL colleagues here gave the House press number 159 and you beat them instead of voting on it and raising money for class teachers, so instead, you're pushing the EET into force here and blocking the negotiation of these laws. That's not fair. The arguments I brought were completely material. EET, even if it works by chance, according to government estimates, will bring units of billions of crowns. The contribution of the third and fourth wave will be up to CZK 10 billion a year. Now it's, I guess, 4.7 billion by the government's numbers, which I'm conducting a careful analysis. Five billion a year, that's 0.3 percent of the state budget. That's something on the level of adding 2 percent to the civil servants, or some kind of political agreement that's been made here. This is simply relatively small money from the total amount of the state's management. I have mentioned here problems which I consider to be far more serious than the EET for the Czech Republic, which the House is intended to address in priority. It is the decision of the government and the coalition, if it decides to address the EET first and to cause a logical conflict with the opposition, which simply wants to stand up for the hundreds of thousands of people it will hit, and which wants to prevent the lobbyist group that supplies the software from making an extreme profit on it. Another thing that my colleague Filip pointed out to me when he said that these are our priorities and that the government has its priorities and that this is a coalition decision on what priorities it will address. But Mr. Filip didn't listen to me very well. I, in a substantial part of my speech, spoke about the priorities of the government from the government's programming declaration. I'll tell him again, so next time he has an idea that I'm not making up my priorities. In the government's programming declaration on the first six priority points, there is a pension reform where you have done absolutely nothing during the entire parliamentary term. You didn't do anything. And even worse, there's nothing you're going to do. [[Laughs and screams in the hall.]] I'll ask you to respond with factual comments, if you don't agree, not to yell at me from the O.R. I don't think that's exactly the right way to conduct a debate. Why do I think you're not going to do this? Because Secretary Maláčová was at our congress club and said she wasn't going to do it. I'm sorry if it's gonna be any different if she brings the reform in, but that's what she told us. That's why. There are 22 witnesses to our MP's club. That's why I don't think you're going to submit pension reform. That's why I referred to her as something the government should do and not do. Next, I spoke about balancing the state budget, which is again written in the government's programming statement. Mr Filip, through Mr President, this is written in the Government's programming statement, and although you have it written there, you approve deficits in the budgetary perspective and approve deficits in the state budget. Forty billion axes every year. As Andrej Babiš says, if someone puts a business plan in place for me with a deficit, I'll fire him. So he hasn't fired you all yet? That's just in the government's programming statement. That's not the kind of thing I'd make up. According to the government's statement, the digitalisation of government is a government priority. I think these are the things the House should deal with earlier. Last remark, he said it for me to a large extent earlier by colleague Kopřiva, it was privacy and transparency. The EET certainly does not increase transparency, because the fact that a narrow group in the Ministry of Finance gets access to hundreds of thousands of citizens' data is not transparency, but a breach of privacy. Transparency is when the State publishes in detail what it spends on public funds that we have chosen together. And public funds are to be distributed so that citizens can verify where the money goes. That is why, yesterday, we proposed a resolution on the state's clicking budget that individual expenditures should be made public by the State. And it was YES, ČSSD and KSČM that blocked it, which did not want transparency. But EET is no transparency. The fact that the Ministry of Finance will know where business is an opportunity for church sausages is not transparency. I absolutely do not agree with this concept, collecting data from citizens across the board is peeping and there is no transparency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u41	Now I have two factual points here. I am the first to call on Mr Václav Klaus and to prepare Mr Jakub Michálek. Well, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u42	Hello. I applied in response to Mr. Gazdík, but somehow the login device didn't work, which, of course, I'm not questioning. I wonder if interrupting the House's actions on the basis of climate phenomena, if this is actually possible under the Rules of Procedure. But since it's before Christmas and I'm in favour of being friendly, I'm a graduate of the science department, I have a meteorology exam to see if I could possibly be a verifier if the situation had occurred. [[Laughs in the hall.]] The second matter was - today Mr Ferjenčík is in excellent form, no offense, in rhetorical form. I'm being honest. He reminded me of the way he talked so dirty back then, he even said he'd be feeling upset about raising his salary in a pub in front of his friends like... I never would have said that word, at most ever upset, but you know what it is. So I said, in my life, I will not vote alone on my salary, so when it is before Christmas, I would like to thank Mr. Ferjenčík for increasing my salary by 9 percent since January. So I just want to ask how he's gonna feel in front of his friends that Mr. Ferjenčík raised Klaus' wages.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u43	With another de facto Member, Mr Jakub Michálek. Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared for action. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u44	Thank you for the floor. It seems that Mr Klaus will call for a full methodological debate to reinterpret what we voted on when we voted on an increase in salaries that was to be approved in the last parliamentary term on the proposal of Mr Hamáček, and we have only made the slight correction that we have reduced one coefficient so that it does not grow and what has been there before, the automatism that is growing according to wage growth in the state sector. We suggested it a little differently, but it was exactly the same, it went on exactly the same way as the previous political representation approved it. So to come up with the fact that Mikuláš Ferjenčík has raised someone here, raised you, paid you, so that's probably an example of demagogy. Maybe you should discuss it with your students that information shouldn't be presented like this. However, I wanted to respond to another matter. I don't know if I'm gonna have a time limit, or I'm gonna react one more time. When it was said here in the speech by Mikuláš Ferjenčík on the pension reform, the interpretation of why these things are significantly more important than the EET, which is the largest project for digitising this government and the previous government, we must remember that the government is working on page one in its programming declaration, namely in one paragraph. Under the heading Pension Reform in the second paragraph, pension reform is as follows: The Government will introduce, by 2018 at the latest, discounts on fares on trains and buses for seniors over 65, pupils and students up to the age of 26. Well, if this is retirement reform, then I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u45	Thank you for keeping time. And now Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík to the facts, this is the last application so far. Again, MP Jakub Michálek has applied to the facts. So, Mr. Ferjenčík, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond by your means, Mr President, to my colleague Klaus. I wasn't talking about friends. I was talking about regulars in that pub, ordinary citizens watching politics on TV, and it bothers them when the papals here approve some privileges. But I think it'll be very easy to explain to them how it actually happened that I've reduced your salary by 11 percent since January. I'm quite proud of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u47	So now I have no further factual point, so we will go back to the general debate, and I have one application here. So, MP Ondřej Profant. And that is the last application for the debate so far. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u48	Good noon, honourable Members, dear government, dear public, is getting a little thin. I guess we got her tired of the actual comments. I'll take a line from Mr. Nachr. [[Ambassador Nacher protests loudly from the diaper.]] nachera, I'm sorry, through the President. I didn't want to react, but when Mr. Plzák explained it to us, I have to explain it to him. My colleague, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, of course, spoke to the point. He was talking about your government's priorities. You're still just doing some techniques, transfers, subsidies, you're good at that, but the real changes, the social changes, the things that need to be responded to nowadays, they don't happen here. We must be able to deal with modern digital services, the European digital market, the protection of privacy. The only changes that are happening here in this area are the changes that come from the European Union. I am very happy for the European Union, because without it, we would not have solved these problems here at all. We'd still be dealing with some biting of a bear and stuff like that. I'd like to hear from you sometime what government proposals you're really proud of. And now I don't mean those government proposals that you just took over from the opposition, but government proposals that the ministers of your government have actually prepared, and you could present them as a flagship that presents something new. Something that moves our state forward. I didn't see one like it. EET just can't be a priority. It's a big hit in the lives of many people, and it really doesn't bring anything at all to this wave. He's just bullying people, leading to more bullying, similar to those orders and all that. That's really not gonna help us. So, for colleagues from the YES movement through the President. I suggest you read Mr Ferjenčík's speech one more time in detail from the tapestry. I'll read it to you if you have any trouble reading it. [[Fun in the hall.]] But I hope you can do it on your own. And now I will return to the Prime Minister's favourite words, and the Minister of Finance, that the EET is a successful eGovernment project. That's what we've heard here several times, trusting the government, et cetera. It is indeed a bullying project, not a successful eGovernment project. The successful eGovernment project is a project that will make life easier for our citizens in this state. And that's not really happening here. We're just bullying them, persecuting them and stuff, which isn't good. eGovernment is about how to rule in digital times. And ruling in a positive sense means helping people with their daily problems and life situations. But we always have some very chopped-up wannabe digitization project that only converts paper into digital paper. But it's not digitalization. Generally speaking, the form of PDF will never be digitized. It's filthy. We saw a specific project on the clicking budget yesterday, which my colleagues have already mentioned in detail. It was discussed yesterday, we quoted it from the Prime Minister's book, that's another area. Let's read the book and go over what's done and what's not done. Or not fulfilled what is really being worked on. And now for the essence of why I'm here. [[Loud remarks from the diaper. The speaker keeps his mouth shut for a while.]] I'm glad you're having so much fun. My colleague, don't yell at me. You guys always vote to take points off the agenda and all that. We're here to discuss, your colleague here came up with the fact that our contribution was not for discussion. The discussion could have been over by now if you hadn't acted like this. The EET system was originally competed in an open tender. However, this was cancelled and instead the negotiated procedure was without publication, so a direct award to one particular supplier. No one will be surprised that this supplier is an IBM company...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u49	I'm gonna ask you for peace, please. We have three minutes left, so let us allow the honourable Member to comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u50	And so the vendor lock-in, which Minister Schillerová complains about, was once again deepened. Therefore, I propose to interrupt this point until the EET is competed in an open tender.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u51	We have a procedural proposal here. Mr Profant proposes to suspend this point until the EET is competitive in a public tender. So I'll call the MPs to the ballroom. I'll sign you off on request, please log in with your voting cards again. I'm going to repeat what we're going to vote on. We will vote on Mr Profant's proposal to suspend this item until the EET is competitive in a public tender. Did I just say that right...? Please, if you can explain?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u52	Mr President, if I have correctly noted the proposal, there has been an open invitation to tender. [[Open, yes.]] This is a more accurate term under the Public Procurement Act. So that this is not misleading in the sense of other proceedings, which are, of course, public but not open. Thank you for the addition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u53	Yes, thank you for the clarification. So I'm gonna say what we're gonna vote on one more time. There is a proposal to interrupt this point until the open competition for the EET is launched. So we all know what we're going to vote on. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of interrupting, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 265. Registered to 151 Members, for 62, versus 85. The motion for an interruption has been rejected. [[13.00 hours]] Now here I have a point of fact. Mr. Mr. Nacher. Please, you have the floor. Your two minutes, however, I warn you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u54	I'm patient myself, but I couldn't take it anymore. I'd like to say to the audience and the voters that we didn't discuss the D1 here today because you guys were bouncing. Your most common word today in the speech was obstruction. That's what you guys did today by acting like Jara Cimrman, expressing yourself to everything but EET. So the viewers and ours and your constituents should know that today we did not talk about D1 because, in particular, the pirate-party MEPs were busy and giving a two-hour speech. Two-hour speech. Mr. Ferjenčík had him for about 80 minutes, if I tracked it well. So that's a point. And I've been really patient.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u55	So, this was the last performance this morning. I'm interrupting the negotiations. Enjoy your meal. And at 2:30 p.m., interpelations begin.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-002-021.u56	Good afternoon. The next item is oral questioning, which is addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Before we move on, I'll read the note. Mrs Helena Válková apologizes to us between 14.30 and 18.00 for reasons of work, Mr Zlesák apologizes to us between 14.00 and 19.00 for reasons of work, Mrs Vildumetzová apologises to us from 14.30 to the end of the working day for reasons of work, Mrs Melková apologizes to us from 14.30 to the end of the Kubík Brzobohatá, Mr Ferjenčík Bartoš to us from 14.30 to the end of the working day for personal Pastuchová, Mr Jarošová apologises to us from 14.30 to the end of the working day for reasons of employment, Mrs Brzenorichová apologises to us from 14.30 to the end of the working day, Mr Kott apologizes to us from 14.30 for reasons of employment, Mr Holomčík apologizes to us from 14.30 to 18.00 for reasons of working time of the sitting, for reasons of 18.00. Those were note cards. Now let's move on.
