ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u1	The joint debate on points 13, 14, 15 ( House prints 35, 111, 117/ Mr Dominik Feri is now on the floor according to the proposal. Before that, Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] First, I ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u2	Thank you. I would like to ask my esteemed colleagues to look in that line behind me. [[Only one minister sits here from the government.]] I know the government's quitting today. I understand that. But that's a real government torso. And we're here to discuss the amendment to the Constitution. I think it's undignified. So I propose that we stop discussing these three points until at least one third of them are present here - and I am friendly - one third of the government ministers in demise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u3	It is, of course, a procedural proposal that can be put to the vote. The Rules of Procedure require at least one minister. Earlier, he required at least a Deputy Prime Minister. I will vote on this procedural proposal without debate, but first I will sign you all out and put you on hold. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. On the procedural proposal to interrupt these three points in a merged general debate to at least one third of the government - so I understood the President's proposal to ODS - we will decide in voting number 15. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. It's vote number 15. Of the 131 Members present, for 28, against 80. The motion was not accepted. The debate will therefore continue on the basis of the proposals. According to the rankings I have announced, Mr Dominik Feri is the first acting Member. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, finally, after four months of signing up in the debate. So let me recap a little bit, 'cause there's been a lot of months. The political situation has also changed in a certain way. So there were three proposals gathered here, and I think the interest was to present something. Submit something to keep a promise to the voters. At that time, the issue of direct democracy and the constitutional law on a national referendum was quite trendy. That means, first came the SPD proposal. His essentials and the parameters that we discussed on the ground of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution of the Czech Republic - he considered this proposal to be completely inadequate. Insufficient from the point of view - the adequacy is, of course, measured in some way by political will. And the political will in this clearly shows that the will needs to be set for a referendum by a certain quorum. This means what number of voters should come or how many voters should vote in favour of this proposal or negative. And that is absolutely not what this proposal is doing. Furthermore, out of all the negotiations that have been held, some reasonable number of petents who could call for a referendum is certainly not 100,000, as Members from the SPD suggest, nor is it 100,000, as Members from the KSČM club propose, but it is much more. The key political force, of course, is the YES movement. And the YES movement in its estimates suggests 10 percent of the voters registered in the permanent lists, which means some 800,000 approximately. [[17.50 hours]] A little more general about that. We have not even been able to clarify what kind of referendum we really want during the several meetings of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution. There was always talk of a referendum in the discourse. But there hasn't been any more talk - those referendums are, of course, many types according to doctrine - and we haven't been able to extricate what's really our concern. If it is our concern that the ex post should in any way confirm or disagree with the proposal that we approve here, or if it is our aim to initiate it as far as possible, as it is regulated in a minority of European countries. And on that note, perhaps, let us mention some of the insights in the discussion and knowledge of the political will. It turns out that the biggest support so far has been the proposal to initiate the referendum only to petents, some group that collects sufficient signatures, but this is contrary to two proposals, namely the SPD proposal, which gives the opportunity to initiate the referendum and to the government, and at the same time it is in conflict with the KSČM proposal, which gives and grants this possibility not only to the government, but also to 101 Members or 41 senators, which greatly extends the possibility of the referendum being carried out, and therefore it is in contradiction with the premium we have set here, or which those parliamentary clubs that are for the referendum have established here, namely that the referendum is to be an extraordinary instrument which is not to destroy representative or representative democracy, but to supplement it and to refine it appropriately, to improve in certain cases. And this would actually mean that the government, if a decision were to take place on some very fundamental, controversial political case or political matter of a social issue, could rely on a referendum. That means, we don't want to expose government parties to a decision to ban smoking, other things that might come, so we'll do it by referendum, let people decide. And then we're off the hook, because people voted for it. This is something that is directly contrary to the principles of representative democracy, and here from this title the SPD proposals and the KSČM proposals are in my opinion completely out of line and there is no way to support them in this respect. The very issue discussed was, in fact, a series of topics that can be voted on. It is, of course, dealt with negatively in these proposals, because the list could never be complete, which could be approved in referendums. So from a general point of view, the question is whether or not legislation should be approved. The SPD proposal says that in a referendum it would be possible to adopt laws of ordinary legal force as well as constitutional laws. The KSČM proposal sets it this way as well. The ČSSD proposal is more logical here, more at peace, I commend - Kateřina's smiling at me, it's good. He is based on the proposal from the last parliamentary term that it would not be possible to adopt legislation in a referendum, which I think is appropriate, because there the voters are really only exposed to binary decision-making: yes, you agree with this draft in the paragrafo version or not. This means that this can be agreed from a technical point of view with the ČSSD. As far as the scope of the issues excluded from the decision-making process is concerned, the SPD proposal is very slim. And it's tacky to dangerous, because it's not excluded from the decision-making by such a fundamental law as the State Budget Act or taxes, taxes, other other financial transactions, which, by the way, is something that, in many, let's say, according to many, how do I put it? [[The speaker has been silent.]] Well, the Eastern European countries, Balkan countries such as Bulgaria, are regulated. That means we'd actually be getting somewhere else. What would that mean in practice? There's a fairly broad consensus that it's worth adding to teachers. We'd add to the teachers, and then there'd be an initiative that would say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And then in that budget chapter, the money would suddenly be missing from the referendum decision. That would make it very difficult for the government to rule and the House to set some kind of framework in which it all takes place. That means taxes, fees, the state budget should, without a doubt, be exempt from this. The KSČM proposal respects this, the ČSSD proposal also. What is a detail, but which may be of fundamental importance from a practical point of view is the possibility of voting, which means who could participate in the referendum. If I take it, how the designs came here. Thus, the SPD proposal allows the participation of the vote only in the Czech Republic. This means that we completely exclude all who live abroad. They can't even go to the embassies, that's the embassy or the consulate general. They just won't be able to vote. KSČM also approaches this. I feel a little bit of an effort to exclude people who are most likely to have a different opinion than those of these two subjects. The ČSSD proposal does not talk about this. I suppose that would be the content of another implementing law, and I assume that the possibility of voting abroad would somehow be anchored there. What is also necessary to mention from these topics is the issue of individual rights and obligations, which unfortunately does not address the SPD proposal, and I fear that this could also lead at least - it would probably never go to that stage, but multi-initiatives could relate to very specific topics and could have potential, very negative effects. The issue of a referendum on the European Union's withdrawal is also important. The question should certainly be here, or the subject should certainly be here. No one will be surprised that a member of the TOP 09 would never vote for a referendum to come out of the European Union. However, the current regulation allows us, when sufficient support is obtained here and also in the Senate, to call for an ad hoc referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union. The initiative hasn't shown up yet. I don't know why SPD colleagues, if it's their agenda, don't get proper support. But in the current situation, it's possible. On the other hand, if we are talking here about the constitutional law on a national referendum, things should be more common in it. That means, I've already outlined something here, like opening hours in stores. These are the topics, although I do not agree with this proposal, so when it passes, this is how I would imagine it to be taken. And it is not that this referendum will help us to get out of the European Union. This should be, therefore, in my view, a matter of majority in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate and an ad hoc referendum. From the other details or parameters contained in these proposals, or rather not contained - in one - the question is how long should be enough petents be found to call for that referendum. With the SPD, it's 100,000 signatures in two years, which gives a fairly wide and wide chance to call for a referendum. For the ČSSD proposal, it is 850 thousand signatures in six months, which, of course, is a bit more demanding and difficult to qualify. On the other hand, with the significance of the subject, and this is really the premise that it is important that the topics that are decided are so socially important and dynamic that the petents get together that the 850 thousand or more signatures are collected. That's what's real. The KSČM proposal does not set any such time limit. That means 100,000 signatures, but no one really knows how long. Colleagues, colleagues, in light of what I have mentioned here, and I have many other colleagues and colleagues who want to perform after four months, and we have said this many times on the basis of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, allow me to make three proposals. The first one is a motion to reject House press number 35, a proposal for a national referendum of the SPD. Next is a proposal for a return to the House's 111 press. That is what I would like to justify by the fact that the government is constitutionalising here, the topic of the national referendum is in the programming declaration, and this will need to be discussed among government bodies in particular. And the last proposal is the proposal to reject the House press number 117, the proposal for a national referendum from the KSČM workshop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u5	I thank Mr Dominik Feri. Now, Mr Marek the Výborný, duly signed up for the debate, Mr Radek Rozvoral will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u6	Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, dear colleagues, I am also pleased to be getting to the floor on this fundamental subject. Maybe I could pick up where my colleague Feri ended up. We are indeed in a situation where the ruins of the ending government are sitting behind me in a demise, and tomorrow the government is likely to be new. It is a question of what relationship we have with the House press that we have here and which we are discussing, this government will have, and I would also like to know. On the other hand, if this is where the debate is going, I would like to convey briefly the opinion of the KDU-ČSL. We do not agree and we do not think that our democracy is suffering in any way at the moment when we do not have a law on a general referendum. We are representative of democracy and, in this sense, a referendum is not something that would make our democracy better, more perfect, something that would bring us anything more. That's one important thing. I'd like us to forget about the references that were also mentioned here, around Switzerland, etc. Switzerland is a completely different culture and tradition, there is no point in comparing the situation in the Czech Republic to the Swiss constitutional tradition and tradition of Swiss referendums. The three House prints that we have here, from our point of view, all three are going the way that is in Europe, significantly minority in the countries of the European Union. These are parameters that correspond to so-called. initiating referendums, i.e. that it is the public, the people who initiate the issues that referendums should decide on. I will remind you that this type of referendum is now only in the constitutional order of five countries of the European Union, mostly Eastern European countries, namely Bulgaria, Lithuania, Latvia, Hungary and Slovakia. Neither in any of these states is the adaptation of this so-called The initial referendum, it seems, has not been very successful. The model for this can be e.g. neighbouring Slovakia. That is why we do not think that the whole discussion is correct, as is the case with the Constitutional Commission, that it is limited to this direction only. an initial referendum, because here we have another one, whether it be a referendum of ratification, participation, because these are, in the end, forms of referendums that are much more frequent in Western Europe. If we looked, for example. a referendum, which in some way restricts Parliament, i.e. a referendum that confirms or repeals Parliament's decision, so we will find this type of referendum in 17 countries of the European Union, among them for example. in Ireland, Denmark, Germany and other countries, Italy, Poland etc. And so do we. a referendum of participation. Here again we will find this type in 17 countries of the European Union. We have a referendum blocking. There are quite fewer states there, if I'm not mistaken, six of them. Blocking referendums are incorporated in six countries of the European Union in constitutional order. That is why we believe that it would be appropriate to have the expert debate, which, unfortunately, on Parliament's floor, the Chamber of Deputies only flattened on the debate on the initial referendums, perhaps to some extent blinded us to vote on some critical issues such as these. The membership of the Czech Republic in international organizations, so we do not consider this path and this direction of the set debate to be entirely reasonable. As for the three House prints, as they are presented, even though the parameters are set, a proposal from the ČSSD workshop is set, which seems to be very measured in this sense - but I would also like to point out that even the translators themselves have already announced that they are ready to retreat significantly in those parameters, be it possible for example. on the relevant number of signatures needed to initiate such a referendum, etc. - so we do not think that neither of these three proposals should be the one that Parliament should support. This concerns not only the parameter who can initiate, of course it is also the question of the kvora, whether the percentage of voters must come to the referendum being valid or what majority must be spoken for. It is a question of commitment, it is a question of exceptions, on which issues cannot be decided in referendums. Here, if the proposal were to be voted, it would also be good to maintain the widest possible range of questions. These are not only things relating to the fiscal policy of the state, but they should be things that affect fundamental human rights, they should be issues that affect our obligations arising from international treaties, etc. As a big problem, we see then, and neither of the three proposals resolves quite clearly and clearly, the implementation of a possible decision from such a referendum is. So we do not think that these proposals, by the way, have been a proposal since 1992, if I am not mistaken, 34th, 36th and 37th to enact a general referendum, are completely happy and, as a KDU-ČSL MP, we will not support either of these three proposals and, as part of the first reading, we will propose how the House Press No. 35, so in the House press No. 111, so in Parliament's press No. 117 rejecting them, so that the debate and the debate spread and not only followed the path towards the initiation referendum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u7	Thank you, Mr Excellent. We'll keep going. I will ask for a Rozvoral with my colleague, because I have here one priority right of Mr. Jan Hrnčíř, that is a factual point. Priority law instead of Mr Farský, who is duly excused, Vice-President of the Vít Rakušan Club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, when I listened to my previous speakers here, I came to the impression that perhaps our citizens are not somehow mature for direct democracy, for referendums. I say, if that's true, then it's high time we brought direct democracy here and brought the nation to it. If we live in a party oligarchy, which will monopolize for citizens, we will never raise citizens to account for our own country. And what's essential. If we are not mature, then it is better to live in some dictatorship or imitation of democracy. Why? Does anyone feel that representatives elected by immature voters will be more mature, more responsible, more moral? Within 20 years, we have tried the elite government without responsibility. Does anyone have the courage to say that the elite behaved more wisely than the citizens? More morally, more decently, more honestly? On the contrary, many of them trumped even the biggest gangsters. The robbery of state property from the time of privatization seems to be unsurpassed in history. The country has lost not only billions of assets, but has deprived citizens of all the illusions of its elites, the word politicians has become a vulgar word and synonymous with thieves and corrupters. It is the representative system that forces citizens to trust elites and elites to fool the masses, corrupt and cheat to win their votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u9	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact by Mr Dominik Feri, then by fellow Rakušan and duly signed in by Mr Rozvoral. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There's one thing about this. At present, this is not the case that citizens and citizens have no opportunity to comment on the issues under discussion. The possibility is logically to turn to them, but not only in municipal and regional matters. We already have a law that allows us to initiate, implement and decide in referendums. The fact that this option is not so much exploited... At community level, yes, although many times it happens that there will not be enough eligible voters. At regional level, as far as I know, such a referendum has not yet taken place. Well, that's another thing. And that is what the plaintiffs should primarily focus on, first of all, to start at the municipalities and at the edges, and then we can, or at least, talk about it, bring the whole thing to a higher level. But if the decision-making doesn't work here, even at the lowest levels, then how is it supposed to work higher? And let's just mention that at municipal levels, things are generally known, people can decide in some way whether or not the bypass of the city should lead this way or not, or whether or not the roundabout is supposed to be here or there, etc. Of course, there are many topics. It's much more difficult to make decisions at that national level, there's a much greater risk of misinformation campaigns. And even the Brexit referendum has clearly shown that an advanced democratic rule of law and its citizens are exposed to this risk, they can be exposed. And it also showed, by the way, that the plaintiffs were quite openly and completely awkwardly lying, the campaign was a lie, and then they confessed to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. To ease the situation, I will read the apologies received to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Petr Fiala, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, from 17 a.m. to the end of the day and Mr Antonín Staněk from 18 a.m. to the end of the working day. Now Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal - also a factual point. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u12	Thank you. I must respond to my previous speaker, colleague Feri, when he mentioned the local and regional referendums. Yes, there's a lower attendance, they're problematic. That's why I tabled an amendment to the bill on elections, which simplifies the bureaucracy and, of course, other things that can be changed, for example, it's a call for participation that actually forces and builds this thing so that when you're against the decision, you don't actually want to go there. So that is why, in the debate on referendums, we strongly support this position so that both parties are motivated to come to the referendum because it cannot happen that they will make the opposite decision through their votes. I've already negotiated this. I think there's a chance that we can implement it in one of those designs that's on the table today so that it can pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, therefore, with priority rights, Mr Vít Rakušan. A colleague of mine is getting ready to Rozvoral. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, a brief opinion from the Mayors and Independents Club. We have heard many here, both from our colleagues from TOP 09 and from KDU-ČSL, where we agree on fundamental matters. Perhaps just that we as mayors and independent, which we can prove in many of our communities, are in favour of people participating in decision making. We are in favour of elements of direct democracy. And at that municipal and regional level, it's something that we welcome in everyday contact with citizens in collecting information from them. I think it is a matter that should be supported by all of us, that is, that citizens of the Czech Republic in those places where they actually deal with some of their local problems within self-government, where they manage their municipalities and cities, when they see the specific problem and we can say that they are at that moment qualified people about whether to decide on the footbridge or crossing for pedestrians or the location of the incinerator in their village cadastral, and so on, that is a qualified decision where they can get really relevant information from their self-governing representatives. It's a problem they'll see close by. I am afraid that, in the case of the SPD proposal and in the case of the KSČM proposal, these are really dangerous proposals which lead to the fact that they can be substantially amended on the basis of various disinformation campaigns that we have enjoyed in recent times overly, foreign policy direction of the Czech Republic, and we should simply admit that these two proposals on these issues and that are certainly heading towards a referendum on these issues and are also being prepared with this intention. Another thing is the proposal from the workshop of social democracy, which is technically prepared in a high-quality manner, unlike the SPD proposal, which also shows numerous legislative technical shortcomings, as it was also accused. After all, even in the explanatory report, we discovered some grammatical errors, but I think he may be behind us. I think, of course, that the moment we have the government of the YES movement here, which is the dominant entity on our political scene, and the government statement is to include that the national referendum is to be introduced as an institute, we should just wait for a government proposal that will also be signed by the government movement YES. At this point, we have three suggestions. We're in a situation where we don't have a clearly declared government majority. One is SPD, one is KSČM, one is ČSSD. At this point, we cannot tell which of them is or is not a government party, who is an opposition entity. So if there is an important proposal for a general referendum, if the government considers it its priority, then let the proposal from the social democracy workshop as a likely coalition partner be rejoined by the entire government as a whole and we are talking about some government proposal in a clearly declared government majority, which will arise when we have a government here in the Czech Republic with confidence. The situation is simply not here at the moment and we have three proposals about the same, which are very different in their basic parameters. From my subjective point of view - and I also interpret the proposal of the Mayors and Independents Club - I see here two very dangerous proposals, namely the SPD proposal and the KSČM proposal, and the SPD proposal, apart from other things, as a proposal of legislatively bad, and I see here the proposal of social democracy, which is possible for further discussion, but it should therefore be a proposal which will then come from the Czech Government as a government proposal for a new government with confidence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u15	I thank Mr Vít the Rakušan. He raised three factual points - Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Grospič and Mr Radim Fiala. So, the rapporteur, please, with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u16	Thank you for the floor. I must respond to the speakers through Mr President. The national referendum law must be passed by a constitutional majority in the Chamber of Deputies and by a constitutional majority in the Senate. This will not be a government proposal, as the government will probably not have 120 votes in this parliamentary term. So for this proposal to go with 120 votes from this House, we don't really have to wait for the government. We paradoxically agree with you that the proposal from the ČSSD workshop has the best chance of going through the legislative process, has the best chance of succeeding in the Senate, and it is the best chance that we will actually have that general referendum. We see big problems there in the kvora, which is extremely high, there is an extremely high number of signatures that is needed, there is an extremely short time to collect signatures. But if these three parameters are adjusted, we think the law will apply. And I find it unfortunate to have this place surrounded by reference to the government when this is a law that needs a constitutional majority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Stanislav Grospič with a point of fact, then Mr Radim Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would also like to respond by your means to my previous speaker, Mr Skopeček (he did not speak with the fact that, of course, there are three proposals for a national referendum law here in the House. It's legitimate. Each political party that has presented it is thus pursuing a specific objective and a sense of purpose. They may all agree that they want to fill the Constitution and that vacuum, which has been in the implementation of the Constitution for many, many years, actually since its adoption. On the other hand, it is also legitimate that every political party embodies something of its own in this bill of law. [[18.20 hours]] However, I would like to strongly oppose what the Civil Democratic Party and perhaps some other right-wing politicians have said here that the proposal tabled by the Communist Party is the most dangerous. I think and believe that the proposal put forward by the Communist Party is the most elaborate one that meets the most needs and reality of the Czech rule of law. And if anyone is concerned that citizens might also happen to have the right to decide on foreign issues of the Czech Republic, then let him answer himself in front of the citizens of the Czech Republic. When the Czech Republic joined the European Union, this was done on the basis of a national referendum. There is nothing more legitimate for citizens to have the right to assess whether they want to remain or not in this institution, or in other institutions where we are bound by international commitments, also by the issue of a national referendum. This is not the submission of any future development of the Czech Republic, it is a legitimate right that belongs to people, and the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia feels it here and wants to give it back to people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u19	Thank you. Mr Radim Fiala now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u20	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I also want to respond to Mr Rakušan, so, Mr President, by your means, basically my two previous speakers have already said it here, both Mr Ferjenčík and the representative of the Communist Party, when they basically said that we should not wait for anything, that it doesn't really matter whose workshop the proposal is, but what I want to respond to is that Mr Rakušan said that the referendum is dangerous. I would like all citizens to hear that citizens' decisions are dangerous. Depends on who it's dangerous to. To blame it on disinformation sites, I think it's just a huge alibi. But the decision of citizens is, in my opinion, the biggest pinnacle of democracy, where neither the three presidents of coalition parties, nor 200 Members in the House, nor 200 Members and 81 Senators rule, but eight million voters of the Czech Republic can decide, and I think that is the highest degree of democracy and we should in no way prevent it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u21	I thank Mr Radim Fial. One more point in fact, Mr. Vít Rakušan's point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We don't listen here, we don't even know each other here, but I understand that I'm a new Member, I'm a member of the Mayors and an independent, not a member of the ODS Skopeček, but only a technical specification of how we feel about each other here in this area. And only a brief comment on the words of Mr Fiala through Mr President. No, no, no, the referendum as an institute is definitely not dangerous, and we are not listening to each other in this. However, your proposal for a general referendum is fundamentally dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u23	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, and now Mr Radek Rozvoral, who is duly registered. Mr Jelínek will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear government, our SPD movement proposes a law on a general referendum with the conviction that the adoption of a referendum as a commonly used institute will lead to a better democracy in the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic lacks a law on a general referendum. Although there have been many attempts, the final version has not yet succeeded. In addition to the outline of constitutional laws on a general referendum, many outlines of special referendum laws have been presented. This proposal is already a 17th attempt. After its creation, the Czech Republic followed up on previous traditions and became a representative democracy. Elections are the basis of the representative system through which citizens elect legislators at local and national level. In the Czech Republic, however, there is a long-term effort to supplement the classic representative model with an institute of direct democracy, namely a referendum. The SPD's main argument is that the institutes of direct democracy can help involve citizens more in the decision-making process, such as at a time when politics is lost. These are important issues concerning, for example, foreign policy, where citizens express their views directly in the referendum and thus participate in the exercise of state power. The referendum is a very frequent subject of debate in the Czech Republic and has been proposed many times in the last 25 years in the form of constitutional law. In fact, there is a promise in the Constitution that a referendum will be established in the future, and that is in the article. Article 2 (1) (a) 2. Yet the national referendum has not yet received legislation. Even so, this institute has already been used once, by means of a one-off implementing law adopted when deciding on the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union. The referendum took place for two days, 55 per cent of the eligible voters took part in the vote, and 77 per cent of the participants voted in favour of joining the EU. In the implementation phase everything went smoothly and our legislators learned to work with this new instrument ensuring general democracy in practice and the process went smoothly. As you have already been informed, the last attempts to push for a referendum were also submitted by the draft constitutional law in January 2014 on the national referendum and the amendment of the Constitution of the Czech Republic to the members of our movement, which was rejected to the detriment of the consolidation of democracy, and another draft constitutional law on the national referendum was not discussed by us in mid-2015. The bill is based on natural law and on the constitutional principle that sovereigns in the Czech Republic, as well as in any democracy, are citizens who have the right to participate in state governance and should be able to decide on fundamental issues. The current system does not allow citizens to do so today. On behalf of our SPD movement, I can say that this instrument will not serve to announce referendums and to quickly collect signatures, as most of our opponents believe, and it is made clear in every possible way. At present, it is not our priority to encourage the use of this proposed law to declare a referendum on the withdrawal of our country from the EU or the North Atlantic Alliance. This is how most of the Members present from other parliamentary parties perceive our activities in the framework of the enforcement of the proposed Act on a general referendum. It is a cheap gesture from them, and they completely disparage the work of our Members who participated in the bill. The referendum law will put into the hands of our country's citizens an instrument that will enable them to freely and responsibly decide on the fundamental things that are the priority in their view, and, on the basis of the results of the referendum, they will be able to commit policies, for example. to adopt the euro, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, the policy since the establishment of the independent Czech Republic has undergone a dynamic development, and according to the representatives of our SPD movement, complementing the representative form of democracy is an element of direct democracy, one of the ways to improve the quality of democracy in the country or to deepen democracy. At present, the anchoring and routine use of the referendum is considered a part of the Czech political representation, as well as a large part of the public. This is also the reason why the issue of direct democracy instruments needs to be addressed and gradually incorporated into legal standards. But it must be in such a way that a referendum can be announced at all. When I look at the proposal for a constitutional law on a national referendum from the pen of ČSSD Members, I must say that this law would only be possible in exceptional cases. That is why this proposal is completely unacceptable to our SPD movement. Any reasonable citizen who becomes acquainted with the law so defined must conclude and conclude that the appellants have taken up his work in order to tarnish the motion of our movement and thus prevent constructive proposals for further deliberation. The interests and rights of the citizens to whom we are primarily to serve and to implement the policy that puts the citizen at the forefront are not accepted by this proposal and it is rather another proof of how much the representatives of the ČSSD value the citizens of the Czech Republic. Just to clarify, I will mention a few in my view of the impossible conditions for declaring such a proposed referendum. First: The petition proposal must be signed by at least 850 thousand citizens of the Czech Republic who have reached the age of 18. Secondly, the temporal feasibility is within six months of the date of notification of the start of the collection of signatures under a petition. Thirdly, the decision is taken if the majority of citizens entitled to vote in a referendum answer the question put in the referendum positively or negatively, i.e. an absolute majority of all voters. So the sum of the total in order to vote on anything at all is the need to collect 850 thousand signatures within six months, and in order for the referendum to be valid, more than 50 percent of the eligible voters are required to participate. [[18.30 hours]] These are all the conditions that, from my point of view, are really impossible for a referendum to be announced and are precisely designed to make it as difficult for citizens to make it possible for a referendum to be announced and no referendum could ever be announced. This draft law on a national referendum is only designed to feed the wolf and keep the goat whole. That is, since we have already mentioned the citizens' direct decision-making in the Constitution, we will adopt an alibis-castrated law on a general referendum, but only so that it will never be applicable. In the referendum proposed by ČSSD, it is not possible to decide on the Czech Republic's membership in an international organisation or institution, which are also very important things that citizens should have the right to decide. These are all completely justified arguments which clearly show how the ČSSD appreciates the will of the citizens of the Czech Republic. All of us here have been given confidence from our citizens that we will defend their interests. That's our duty. As citizens pay us, they should be able to show and enforce their will. This should be a priority for us here, whether we promote and defend the diverse programmes of our parties. By adopting a viable referendum law, the citizens of our country would receive a united and strong signal from us that we are doing this service for their well-being and a happy, happy and safe life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u25	Thank you, Mr Rozvoral. There are two factual points that he raised with his performance. Mrs Valachová, Mr Veselý. First, Madam Chairman of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, through the President, I have to respond to the Rozvoral, because he has, after all, made me a little sad. After all, it would be appropriate to make at least two comments here, otherwise I am subsequently signed up in a proper debate. Firstly, social democracy certainly did not make a vicious proposal in order to in some way damage the MP's proposal and the SPD's. We have tabled a parliamentary proposal which essentially copied the government's proposal for the previous coalition, which the previous government has drawn up, and I note - and here again I am adjusting the information that was given by Mr.Rozvoral - that it was, of course, the Act on the General referendum. A general referendum. So, of course, at least this government proposal existed and became the starting point for the ČSSD parliamentary proposal. And as I say, social democracy didn't do it out of spite, nor did it want to spit on anyone else's sincere efforts to strengthen the elements of direct democracy, but it did it because it is obliged to voters because it has social democracy in the programme, so we are doing the same as others in accordance with our programme. So much for a brief reaction, I think, basically collegial, to my previous speaker. And I believe that our debate will be substantive, as it is so far relevant to the Permanent Commission for the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u27	Thank you, Mrs Valachová. Mr Veselý is now also prepared for a factual remark by Mr Marek Výborný. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will be a little more aggressive than the previous speaker. I would like to ask, on behalf of you, Mr President, colleagues from the SPD, that if they comment on the referendum law, let them focus more on their own. We don't comment on the law with comparing ours to yours, and we don't tell you how bad it is. We have some suggestions, we all see it differently, and we'll see how it decides what the points will be here. But please don't say that our law is wrong or that it causes something bad, because that's our proposal, you have your proposal, and we don't say it either. Let's really keep the correctness, let's talk about our laws, tell each other where their advantage is, but let's stop defaming each other's proposals, because that would get us somewhere we definitely don't want to go, and the final consequence would be that no proposal will be accepted, which is what neither of our parties wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Marek the Výborný, Mr Jelínek will be prepared. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u30	Thank you for the floor. It may not be my place to stand up for social democracy here, almost government parties, but I have to do this at this point, because it really seems inappropriate to me to submit such overwhelming criticisms to a proposal that is finally put forward for discussion, it has been several times - I think my colleague Valachová can confirm - discussed in detail on the Constitutional Commission. And I have to protest the blindness with which the MPs of the SPD are speaking. First, the constant repetition that our democracy is bad, inadequate, defective, because we do not have a law on a general referendum - that is simply not true. Ask the constitutional lawyers, they'll tell you it's not. Yes, direct democracy can be a reasonable complement to our system, but it really is not a panacea. Especially not the way the SPD proposes it, or the way it's set out in the KSČM proposal. And I'd also like to draw your attention to the other thing. The sovereign in terms of constitutional law is not only the Chamber of Deputies but also the Senate. And who of you are members of the Constitutional Commission, so remember well the joint meeting of both the two committees, the MP and the Senate. And I think we should take these things into account here and in this expert debate. But of course we're sovereign, so if you decide to head against the wall, no one's stopping you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u31	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, but we have other factual points here, Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Grospič. So first, Mr. Ferjenčík. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor on a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u32	Thank you for the floor. Two comments on the debate in response to the previous speakers through Mr President. First of all, I regret that the folks have turned around again, and even though they have claimed to support the national referendum before the elections, they are not willing to support even the very cautious and very consensual proposal of social democracy. From my point of view, this is an incomprehensible turn and unfortunately I am no longer surprised by KDU-ČSL. Second point. The 850 thousand signatures and the kvora, as set out in the proposal for social democracy, are just extremely high. And if the proposal was actually adopted as proposed, it would not be possible to carry out a binding referendum in the Czech Republic. That's just a fact. Although Mr. Rozvoral them from a side that I mostly disagree with, this is just a fact. And if we don't fix it, the law is useless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Stanislav Grospič with a point of fact and then Mr Marek Výborný with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I listened with a smile to my previous speakers, this time from the people's side, when they constantly resent the proposal made by the Communist Party, and I think it wouldn't hurt if they took a little more attention to his text and read it. Then they would not be able to talk about the fact that this is the worst proposal, a proposal that will bring the most evil to the Czech Republic and which should not see the light of day at all. Because when someone reads the proposal carefully, there is talk that a referendum can be announced on the basis of 100,000 signatures of citizens of the Czech Republic in the form of a petition. Yes, the number is relatively low, we are willing to discuss it, of course, and we are also aware that in the Constitutional Commission we have reached a compromise that this number could be higher, but far from as high as in the proposal for social democracy, i.e. on the proposal that is praised by everyone here, probably because it is a proposal that is most similar to the proposals with which Mirek Topolánek and Petr Nečas' right-wing governments came here, which put forward such proposals, which actually meant that the referendum could never really be implemented or implemented, because there were always enough safeguards, including the Constitutional Court, which could at some point prevent it from happening. And as far as foreign affairs are concerned, I don't think it's dangerous at all. It is entirely in the regime of other issues which may be the subject of this referendum and do not endanger the security or sovereignty of the Czech Republic. On the contrary, they put their trust in the hands of the people of this country. And in the end, I think it's quite right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Marek Výborný, also a factual point. Mr Jelínek is still prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u36	Thank you for the floor. I would, by your means, Mr President, first of all to Mr Grospič. We come with parameters as they are in your design, I of course read it very well, even eventually in the design from the SPD workshop, not quite sufficient. I know we've been discussing this with the Constitutional Commission. I think it's a legitimate opinion. You don't have it, you have another one, but that doesn't mean we have to attack each other in this way. A second point, perhaps more fundamental at the moment, by your means, Mr President, to Mr Ferjenčík. Please, let's listen to each other. Let's hear each other out. Because I clearly said in my opening entry that we are, and finally I have to submit even after detailed discussions with constitutional lawyers, they have come to the conclusion that the path that is set here today in all three proposals, as we have here on the table towards the initiation referendum, is not ideal. And we are still in favour of integrating elements of direct democracy, we are also in favour of a possible law on a general referendum, but not in the form of an initial referendum. Once again, this form of referendum exists only in five countries of the European Union east of us, not one of those five states has worked. I really do not understand why we are going this way and we are not going the way that is proven in the European Union, and we are not going the way of the participation referendums, or we are not going the way of the referendums of ratifications, of course, there are a lot more of those possibilities, but these are the most common ones in Europe. Please, let's not say the folks turned around. They didn't turn around. Based on expert discussion in the Constitutional Commission and with other constitutional lawyers, we have reached this opinion, which we will also defend on the premises of the House and the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Once again, Mr Ferjenčík. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u38	Thank you for the floor. I can't do it. I listen very carefully, but unfortunately KDU-ČSL has never represented this position before the elections. Before the elections, all parties, except perhaps the TOP 09 and the ODS, promise to support referendums, support the involvement of citizens. Then when it comes down to it, one of them is going to suggest a kvora that is so extremely high that it can't be realized, others are going to suggest a kvora so extremely low that it doesn't have a chance to go through this House and the Senate, others are going to say that it's not finished yet and we have to start over, and there's nothing. And that's what bothers us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u39	Thank you. And now, Mr Pavel Jelínek. Mr Kobza will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on the referendum, concerns are still expressed about people's ability to make decisions in this referendum on matters relating to them. When we argue that there are countries where this instrument works, there is talk of other conditions, such as Switzerland, and other political cultures. For the record, I would like to remind myself how long direct democracy has been operating in Switzerland and under what circumstances it has come into existence. It was created after the civil war in the middle of the 19th century. It was created in a country divided politically, religiously and nationally. It came from the decision of people to face a major crisis, a crisis from which Switzerland's elites did not see their citizens as an incompetent mass. They were self-confident elites who decided to believe in the responsibility of their fellow citizens. Direct democracy brought Switzerland unprecedented prosperity and considerable sovereignty, sovereignty that they maintained during World War II. Direct democracy works, awakens civil potential in people, and is dangerous only for elites who try to manipulate democracy. Our people aren't stupid. Let us give them a responsible constitutional law and they will bear the responsibility of a hegemon of direct democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u41	I thank Mr Jelínek. Now, Mr Kobza. Mrs Šafránková will be ready. [[Voices from the hall: Members are not present.]] Their application is failing. Mrs. Hyťhová. Mr. Grospič. [[Voices from the O.R.]] Madam, I'm sorry. Now, Mrs Hyťhová, Šafránková - I apologize. [[Voices from the O.R., Hytha.]] I'm erasing Mrs. Šafránková. Please. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u42	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, the draft SPD Act on a general referendum is the fulfilment of our Constitution, because it has been counting on this institute since it was approved. Unfortunately, previous political representations have not found in themselves the desire or courage to apply this provision. Our society had only one option in the history of the post-November, when it could comment on our country's further direction in the referendum. As we all know, this has happened in the case of our accession to the European Union. To this event, the law was passed and applied only to this special case, where no quorum was established and most of the people voted. Since then, unfortunately, we have not received any other option as citizens. It is a paradox that we have been able to decide on the entry, we have probably been qualified enough for this, but there must not be a referendum on any possible speech by our opponents, as has been said here today. Supposedly, our citizen is not qualified to decide this matter. It is precisely the fear of many for whom leaving the European Union is a black moth that defends the law's teeth. If, according to our Constitution, the people are the source of all power, then no one has the right to deny the bearer of that power the opportunity to decide on all issues except those that would violate human rights. If the people of this country are right to choose their representatives from among themselves to Parliament, it must be equally right to decide in a referendum. If we do not give him this opportunity, we are merely playing this democracy in a referendum on all issues, as I have already mentioned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u43	Thank you, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová. Now, Mr Stanislav Grospič, Mr Radovan Vích, is on the list. Mr. Grospič in a proper application. I'm just going to ask Mrs. Hyťhová if she wants to perform again. [[No.]] Just to keep me in the loop. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, honourable members of the government, I have been here several times on the subject of this law, and I think there will be many more times when I will be able to comment on this in some way. In this context, I would just like to draw attention to the press that bears No. 117. It is submitted by a group of members of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia and presents a draft law on a national referendum, which it wants to implement the text of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. This bill is based on the simple premise that, by referendum, the people exercise state power directly, in accordance with Article 2 (2) of the Treaty. Article 2 (2) of the Constitution, Article 21 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 21 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 21 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 21 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 21 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the We understand that the referendum can decide on fundamental matters of internal or foreign, state policy, as well as other important issues of public interest. We also understand that the subject of a referendum cannot be constitutionally guaranteed fundamental rights and freedoms, taxes, contributions or other payment obligations to public budgets and the state budget, the exercise of judicial power, the establishment of individual persons in office and their removal from office except for the President of the Republic, changes to the essential requirements of the democratic rule of law. There is also no decision in the referendum on matters which would be contrary to the obligations arising from international law for the Czech Republic. I am reading these things on purpose and reminding them here to answer a number of questions and speculations by my previous speakers who consider this bill to be very dangerous, threatening the very essence of the democratic system, the current democratic system in the Czech Republic. [[18.50 hours]] The proposal envisages that the question that would be put to the referendum must be clear, understandable and formulated in such a way that it can be answered either yes or no. The question also for the referendum must not be aimed at changing the essential requirements of the democratic rule of law. Here is the second answer to the question that this bill, presented by the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, does not go against the current democratic principles of the rule of law of the Czech Republic. In the same referendum, there can also be only one question on the same subject, but there can also be more questions on different matters. This means that we are working with the option that at one point in the national referendum, citizens can comment on several issues at the same time. We are counting on the fact that if this law were adopted, then the right to participate in the referendum and vote in it should be taken by every citizen of the Czech Republic who has the right to vote in Parliament of the Czech Republic, and the referendum vote would only take place in the Czech Republic. Thus, it would not be held at representative offices in foreign states. The referendum would declare the President of the Republic under this law and would do so no later than 30 days after the submission of the proposal for its publication. The President of the Republic would be obliged, according to the proposal we are submitting, to declare a referendum, to submit a proposal for his publication jointly by at least 101 Members, or 41 Senators, or by the government, or by at least 100,000 citizens of the Czech Republic in the form of a petition. I have already said here that we are willing to discuss these forms as well as thevora, which would mean an increase in the number of signatures on the petitions required to call for a referendum. However, we think that this proposal should not be disproportionately high, as I have already mentioned here in the proposal for social democracy, which counts on the number of 800,000 citizens. Our limits, which we think can be discussed, range from a maximum of 250 to 300,000 citizens. Another difference that our law is working with means that the President of the Republic will not declare a referendum as long as the state of the threat to the territory of the Republic or its emergency state is declared. The President of the Republic could also refer to the Constitutional Court before a referendum is announced. Here lies one of the basic differences from other bills that work with the opposite principle. Thus, if the President had done so before the referendum was announced, the subsequent assessment of the constitutionality of the referendum, and thus its possible invalidity, and the entire annulment of the electoral act, in which citizens would decide whether or not they could decide on some of the questions in the referendum. The President of the Republic could also refer to the Constitutional Court, proposing whether the deadline for this submission has been running since the decision of the Constitutional Court became enforceable. The President of the Republic then declared a referendum whenever it was for the adoption of the Constitution, the amendment of the Constitution, the adoption of the Constitutional Law, the ratification of an international treaty, which transferred certain powers of the institutions of the Czech Republic to international organisations or institutions, the accession to the euro area, the withdrawal from the euro area, the withdrawal from the EU, and would do so without a proposal within 15 days of the date of referral of the relevant standard to the President of the Republic for signature pursuant to Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Article 2 (2) of the Constitution, which would remain unaffected. Here I answer the question that it would be no trauma, as the Czech Republic also joined the EU on the basis of a referendum, even if the law adopted by the two chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic for this purpose was adopted. If the conditions for a referendum laid down by this constitutional law are met, the President of the Republic would declare a referendum to take place at the earliest 90 days and at the latest 120 days from the date on which the President of the Republic declared a referendum. Dear colleagues, I have chosen this method of interpretation and approximation of this law for many of you, because the sum of the untruths and criticisms that have been brought here in the Chamber of Deputies on this bill from the point of view of its harmfulness, in terms of its design and danger to the threat of the democratic nature, the nature of the Czech Republic, is entirely fictional, lying and not based on the truth. On the contrary, this law deepens democracy in the Czech Republic and lays down the smallest requirements to amend any other legislation. I believe that you will consider these things even in his support and possible release for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u45	děkovat you, Mr Stanislav Grospič. And now it's time for my colleague Vích, who is excused. Mr Hrnčíř and Mrs Hyťhová have decided not to speak anymore, to cancel their second application. Now, Mrs Helena Válková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I didn't even expect to have the room today, because, as it is obvious, we won't all have much space, we'll be done in five minutes, which is a great shame. I wanted to inform you a little about the development of work on this very important constitutional law on the national referendum, because I was present from the very beginning and for the recapitulation and so that we could all refresh our memory. Of course it is an x-th attempt to introduce this institute and let us say fulfill the expectations of our Constitution into our constitutional order. Now three translators have tried to quote it repeatedly. I'm gonna take a critical remark right now. It's easier for me, because, as you know, the YES movement has not yet submitted a proposal. Neither of the submitters managed to make it an "A" with an "A." I do not want to classify the order now, nor will I say that I blame the mistakes made by the petitioners, because here I would say that it has already been enough, not only tried, but I have also managed to sufficiently convincingly draw attention to some of the errors made by the opposition Members. I think, and now I will say the bold idea that maybe some of you and some of you will not be happy to hear that it would be optimal if we could either convince our colleagues to take their proposals back and prepare one proposal together. But since I know it borders on the political naivety of the largest or deepest grain, I'm just saying this proposal as a theoretical possibility, because then we'd have a better chance of not making the mistakes that we've been talking about. The second option is to put all three suggestions into second reading. Even knowing that some mistakes - I will mention and hope that the SPD's promoters will not be angry with me, but, as such, a very flattering mistake, that the state budget or taxes will be allowed to vote in a referendum - that the errors will be removed and that we will take from each law into a comprehensive amendment what will then make it a proposal that will receive the necessary constitutional or qualified majority of votes and will have a chance to succeed in the final vote. So I take the view - although this may sound a little bold now after all the debates that we have witnessed, after expert seminars, after round tables - that it would not be worth considering and supporting all three proposals with their votes so that they can be discussed in the relevant committees and within the framework of a comprehensive amendment of them to form a common quality draft constitutional law on a national referendum. I think it would be possible, but only on one condition that the majority of you who have this optimistic confidence that we will succeed will prevail in voting. [[18.50 hours]] And then, personally, I don't think that the debate should turn to dramatic media shootouts of the type, as it is possible that you have released - and we have already heard the hints here - something that would allow, for example, our country to leave the EU. I would be the first to never raise my hand for such a proposal. And I think that under the YES movement, I doubt anyone would raise their hand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u47	Madam, I have one for you -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u48	I will continue, Mr President, next time, and I hope it will not be after many months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-017-999.u49	Well, thank you for understanding my innuendo. I will use the 60 seconds that still gives me the Rules of Procedure before 19.01. To say that because the time has passed and no one has suggested continuing negotiations after 19.00, we are discussing laws, constitutional laws, so I am interrupting press discussion 35, 111, 117 in a merged debate during the debate. We will continue tomorrow at 12 o'clock according to the agreement that was made on the political grémium. There are fixed points. Before that, of course, there is a presentation of the government of the Czech Republic, which will be appointed tomorrow. Have a good evening, and I'm looking forward to seeing you tomorrow.
