ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the fourth day of the 24th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all to it. I'll ask you to settle down in your seats, sign up with your ID cards, or tell me who votes with the spare card. I agree that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence to the meeting: Jan Bartošek - a foreign trip, Jan Bauer - a foreign trip, Ondřej Benešík - a foreign trip, Richter Birke - working grounds, Jaroslav Dvořák - health reasons, Dominik Feri - health reasons, Petr Fiala - health reasons, Tomáš Vrecionová - working Veronika, Pavel Jelínek - working Rostislav, Marian Jurečka - working reasons, Pavel Juříček - foreign trips, Jana Krutáková from 11 to 15 hours Julius Vácha, Leo Luzar - a foreign trip, Maříková Karla - Šlechtová grounds, Radka Maxová within 10 hours - family Svoboda, Miroslava Němcová - foreign trip, Zdeněk Ondráček - foreign trip, Petr Pávek - working reasons, Daniel Pawlas - working Vyzula, Marie Pěnčíková - family reasons, Jan Pošvář - foreign trip - personal reasons, Pavel Staněk from 10.30 to 12.30 Půžovský, Czech Republic, Czech Republic, Czech Republic - medical reasons, Czech Republic - working grounds, Czech Republic - working grounds, Czech Republic Members of the government apologize: Jan Kněžínek - foreign trip, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Marta Nováková - foreign trip, Tomáš Petříček - foreign trip, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Adam Vojtěch - working reasons. Mr Jelínek cancels his apology and is present. Today, we should start negotiations with paragraphs 144, which are changes in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies, the electoral point, and 127, the House press 160 - Senate bill on social services, third reading. Furthermore, we should address further points from the third reading block for which legal deadlines have been fulfilled. This is paragraph 126, House press 157 - Parliamentary draft law on inland navigation, and paragraph 128, House press 192 - Parliamentary draft law on state holidays. Next, we would continue to discuss points from the block by the laws of second and first reading. There. I ask if Members are interested in speaking on the agenda. I don't see anybody reporting, so we'll continue as it's been approved so far. In that case, I open the first point of today's negotiations and that is the point
