ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-005-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 167/2008 Sb., on the prevention and correction of environmental damage and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 173/ - Second reading Under the authority of the Government, the draft law presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Environment will be stated by Richard Brabec. Please take the floor. And I think we'll wait a little longer for the House to calm down... Let's hope so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-005-010.u2	As I know them, Mr President, they will not calm down immediately. So I, if you don't mind, thank you for the word and out of the clear joy of getting at us, and to get at the others, I will be very brief, because I think I presented the amendment in more detail as part of the first reading. So let me just remind you that the amendment responds to the infringement procedure initiated by the European Commission, which reproaches us for the incorrect implementation of Articles 12 and 13 of the Environmental Responsibility Directive in relation to prevention and repair of environmental damage. In this context, the amendment to the Act was prepared with the effect that this amendment is exclusively the subject of the provisions of Section 8 of the Act governing the procedure for the imposition of preventive or corrective measures in order to remedy all the identified deficiencies in the transposition of Articles 12 and 13 of the Directive by the Commission. In particular, this means that it is proposed to rephrase the provisions of § 8 para. In order to make it clear that proceedings for the imposition of preventive or corrective measures can be initiated both on request and on an ex officio basis, both of which are equivalent. I guess that's for starters, and now I'm opening the door to other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-005-010.u3	I also thank you, and before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I have here a note from Minister Antonín Staněk from 12.45 until the end of the day for working reasons. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mrs Dana Balcarová, take the floor and inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-005-010.u4	Hello. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also be brief. I just want to say I'm glad the novel got to second reading. I would like to point out that the law, although it has been in our legislation for a year, has never been applied. We tried to discuss the amendment within the environmental committee, even organized a round table, and there we talked to the representatives of the Ministry of Environment about the possibilities of setting up this legislation to make it more usable. We have also had environmental damage processed by the Parliamentary Institute, which has prepared an analysis of how this law is used in other European countries. We have found that it is being used, so I have then put two amendments to the Committee on the Environment, which extend the effectiveness or subject matter of the protection of this law. Unfortunately, the Committee on the Environment did not support these two amendments, so I will read them in a detailed debate. [[13.10 hours]] So I will read here the resolution of the Committee, which was discussed by the Committee on the Environment at the 13th meeting, namely 6. 11. 2018. The committee adopted resolution 173/1, and I will read it now. The Committee on the Environment recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the proposal as proposed. It shall instruct the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thirdly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the results of the examination of the draft law in the meeting of the Committee on the Environment. Fourthly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. So this is everything for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-005-010.u5	I also thank you, and I am now opening up a general debate to which Members Jan Zahradník and Dana Balcarová have signed up. So I ask Mr Zahradník to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-005-010.u6	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I also think we can be glad that it finally came to this law, which has always been this way below the line, that now the second reading can take place. First of all, I have to say that the effort to prevent environmental damage and to try to remedy it makes sense, of course. It is clear that anyone who destroys the environment should immediately abandon it, who is going to do this, so it should be effectively prevented from doing so, and finally, when someone has already caused such environmental damage, they should prepare for their own costs and ensure its correction. So the substrate itself, the very nature of the thing is clear. The rapporteur has already mentioned that we have the law here, the law has existed since 2008. It is Act No. 167/2008 Coll., which deals with the process of preventing and correcting environmental damage in such a way that the main role in this is played by state authorities acting out of the power of official and those incentives may be given to the persons concerned, which are people who are directly related to the damage, whether existing or potential, in some way. So this would be okay. The correction of all possible harms that may occur is to be taken care of. Whether it's damage to environmental rights or to civil rights, it's here to take care of the correction of such offences. Everything would be fine then. I still have to say that perhaps neither the - nor the Minister do I think nor the rapporteur have mentioned that it is actually not that the law has not been applied because there is no such harm. They, of course, are coming, but to correct them and to prevent them, it is enough to apply so-called "component laws," which are laws relating to individual areas, whether it is the law of water, the law on air protection, nature protection and landscape protection or the law on waste. So they've been handling it all so far. Everything would be fine here. However, the Commission issued a reasoned opinion in 2017 that the Czech Republic is misapplication of Articles 12 and 13 of the Council Directive and of the European Parliament, and that if we fail to comply, we will be sued and thus burdened with relatively dramatic sanctions; one-off sanctions of EUR 2 million and then EUR 10,000 every day until the time of redress. So relatively hard, hard pressure is being applied to us. So we can see what the European Commission is asking of us. Article 12, which is referred to as the Request for Measures, provides for which natural or legal persons may submit such requests. They must, on the one hand, be affected by environmental damage, or likely to be affected by persons concerned, or may be persons having sufficient interest in environmental decision-making in relation to environmental damage, or, thirdly, declaring that there has been an infringement of the law, if required by administrative law by the procedural rules of the Member State concerned as a condition. Then there is a relatively promising sentence in this directive, which says that Member States will determine what constitutes a sufficient interest and what constitutes the infringement of the law. So it could somehow be left to us until now what we understand by this term and to which groups of residents we will give the right to act in this way and to submit these requests. But the Commission goes further and defines in a definitive manner which can be natural or legal persons, and defines directly that it can be any non-governmental organisation seeking environmental protection and meeting all the requirements of national law for which their interest is considered sufficient for the purposes of paragraph B of the previous text. So it is clear here that we simply have to involve non-governmental non-profit organisations in the field of the environment in some way, based on the pressure of the European Commission and its directives. Well, what does that mean? This means that non-governmental non-profit organisations in the field of the environment become public prosecutors, some Jacobin prosecutors who have the right to do so by law, if our proposal passes, who have the right to act simply in the sense of filing complaints about possible environmental damage. Here comes the question, why can't any other organizations, like fishermen, hunters, I don't know, soccer players, like chess players or nativity players, when we're at the time of the advent, if they find that environmental damage is imminent? Why does it have to be just the environmental organizations? It's as if they, by God, have a mandate to know what is and what is not right for our nature. And that they're going to do it properly, of course they are. Here is a guide published by Bold Bold, formerly Environmental Legal Service, by the way also sponsor or founder of the infamous organization Reconstruction of the State, which here already in [[shows]] It has been mentioned many times in the House, and it has, in some way, already under the old law, given instructions on how to act in order to be able to serve. Well, he's implementing our law, and it's already been said here that these people will be NGOs. Not only that, they may, in total, request very freely from the competent environmental authorities, namely the Czech environmental inspection is in charge of providing them with written information about each procedure initiated and the imposition of preventive measures, even if the procedure did not arise on the basis of their complaint. Secondly, they give these organisations the right to be parties to the proceedings, even if their proposal was not found to be justified. So these are things that, of course, are wrong in my opinion, and I even think they are wrong in terms of the directive. In my opinion, we are going too far back to the European Commission and we are doing more than she really wants from us. [[13.20 hours]] Therefore, I would now like to present my four proposals to you. The first proposal is a motion to reject the bill at third reading. I think that's the right way to put it. We will therefore vote in the third reading, according to my proposal, to reject this law. And then I put forward three amendments. The first under number 1810 concerns Article 1 (8) (a) of the basic Regulation. 2 and specifies the characteristics of the non-governmental non-profit organisations, if the law were to come into force. So if we let the law go on until the third reading, then I want to at least a little lessen the great power that this law gives environmentalists. So I would like those organisations to have what history, to be those that arose at least three years before the submission of the application pursuant to § 8 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) therefore, it is similar to the quote we have in the EIA Act, the environmental impact assessment, where we also ensure that those organisations have some history, it was not some kind of ad hoc established, sudden association. Secondly, we want those organisations to have transparent revenue and expenditure, so that it is those that publish all their cash-free revenue and expenditure on a bank account, allowing remote free and continuous access through the website. I don't think anyone should mind. Whoever's serious about our environment should be able to document these things. That's the first suggestion. The second proposal is under number 1811 and concerns paragraph 2. 6, where I specify that only those legal persons, those NGOs, on the basis of which the process will be initiated, are those who will be able to request the information, so that it cannot be anyone. There I replace the text in Section 6 by text: The persons referred to in paragraph 1. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) they may request the competent authority to be informed in writing for a period of one year from the date of application without undue delay of any proceedings initiated on preventive measures or corrective measures imposed at the request of the person concerned. This request must be specified locally and may be repeated. - And I think this is also in line with the diction of the directive, which does not mean that the competent authority has an obligation to inform the petitioners of any further investigations relating to any possible environmental injury to an undertaking, it is likely to be some functioning undertaking which is not the subject of the original submission. So that it is not some universal gleet that makes it possible to constantly harass the competent authorities with requests for information. Finally, the third proposal concerns § 8 para. 7 which designates those legal persons as parties to proceedings. The Commission Directive does not say anything about the person referred to in paragraph 1. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the application of which did not give rise to a request to initiate proceedings for the imposition of preventive measures or corrective measures, should have been made by a party to that proceeding. Therefore, I propose that paragraph 7 be deleted and renumbered in the following paragraphs. Thank you for your attention, then. I will also point out that the last, third proposal has the number 1812, and I am already calling on these three proposals in a detailed debate, or I will repeat the motion for rejection at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-005-010.u7	Thank you, too. I just wanted to point out that the proposals need to be tabled in a detailed debate. So now, please, Mrs Balcarová, who is next in line for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-005-010.u8	Thank you for the floor. I have tabled two amendments to extend the scope of protection covered by this amendment to the Environmental Damage Act. One refers to a set of protected species and their biotopes. According to the legislation presented, this applies only to the protection of species which are protected from the point of view of European law. I have extended it to those protected species that are listed in our Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, because I think it will work more widely. And why shouldn't he protect the species that we protect here in the Czech Republic according to our laws? Once again, it only protects them if there is one-time environmental damage. It is not a common protection protected by the law on conservation of nature and landscape. On the contrary, I have focused the second amendment on greater soil protection. As the amendment is now proposed, it considers soil damage only to be such when the damage results in major risks to the health of citizens. I think that this definition is inadequate, because the damage may be one that does not directly affect the health of citizens, but has permanent consequences for the damage to the soil. It could be damage by salting, or damage to the loss of humus, or by the introduction of some microorganisms. Even such damage is very negative and then affects the production that is realized on the soil. So I would like this amendment, which concerns soil quality, to be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-005-010.u9	Thank you, too. That was the last speaker registered in writing. I do not have any factual remarks at the moment, nor do I see any applications for the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking the plaintiff and the rapporteur if they're interested in final words. Is the rapporteur interested in the final word in the general debate? [[No.]] Okay. In that case, there were no proposals which should be voted after the general debate. I am opening a detailed debate. I remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified, and I ask that Mr Zahradník take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-005-010.u10	Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I will just briefly point out that the directive says that the relevant non-governmental organisations must meet all the requirements of national law so that their interest is considered sufficient. I am simply trying to incorporate these requirements into our national law by my proposals. Yes, that's it. I would therefore like to repeat the motion for refusal at third reading, and I hereby subscribe to the three amendments under House documents 1810, 1811 and 1812. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-005-010.u11	I, too, thank you, and now I ask that Mrs Balcarová take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-005-010.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what I want to apply to my amendments, which I presented in the general debate. These are amendments which are listed under press 1829 and 1831. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-005-010.u13	Thank you, too. This has exhausted the written applications for the debate, and I do not see any further applications at the moment, so I am also ending the detailed debate. I'm asking the plaintiff and the rapporteur if they're interested in final words. The rapporteur is interested in the final word, so please. Or doesn't he? He doesn't. In that case, we have no proposals to vote on at this time, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you, rapporteur, thank you. [[13.30 hours]] Let's move on with the show, to the point.
