ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-009-033.u1	33. Government bill amending Act No. 190/2004 Coll., on Bonds, as amended, and other related laws / House printing 93/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. I ask the Minister to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-009-033.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Let me present to you for discussion the government's proposal to amend the Bond Act and to amend some other laws. The reason for submitting the draft law is, in particular, an effort to remedy the shortcomings in the existing legislation on mortgage bonds and to adjust some other shortcomings in bond law, which have been highlighted by practice. The mortgage bonds are securities that only banks are allowed to issue. These are bonds that are covered by mortgage credit claims, which is why sometimes there is generally talk of so-called covered bonds. From the point of view of investors, these are above average safe securities and from the point of view of their issuer, i.e. banks, they are an easy way to raise funds for providing mortgage loans on favourable terms. Our main goal is to make the issue of mortgage mortgage bonds more attractive for investors. In the current legislative form of mortgage mortgage bonds, major institutions are missing, which are usual in other legal systems of developed Western Europe, which causes a negative assessment of the legal framework for mortgage bonds by credit rating agencies and consequently leads to lower attractiveness and lower competitiveness of the Czech Republic in this area. Two major shortcomings have been identified in the existing legislation, which this amendment removes. This is first of all the unclear scope and mortgage regime under the insolvency law, i.e. the extent of assets that will belong to the mortgage nature, especially in relation to mortgage loans payments after bankruptcy. Furthermore, it is a matter of automatic repayment of mortgage mortgage bonds liabilities in the event of a declaration of bankruptcy on the issuer's assets, so-called acceleration. In order to remedy the above shortcomings of the current legislation, the amendment builds the insolvency law regime in relation to covered bonds and explicitly excludes the automatic maturity of covered bonds in the event of insolvency proceedings and excludes covered bonds from the substance of property. Furthermore, the amendment to the Bonds Act complements the arrangement of the so-called collateral agent, a person representing the interests of bondholders in relation to collateral, while the bondholders themselves are not entitled to act on their own, even during insolvency proceedings and enforcement proceedings. Furthermore, the modification of the so-called covered block monitor, i.e. a person who performs the function of a supervisor and controls, in relation to covered bonds, how the issuer complies with legal requirements, is added. Another change is the introduction of the Institute of the so-called forced management of covered blocks, another bank appointed by the Czech National Bank to this function, which is responsible for ensuring the management of assets and debts related to covered bonds, if the coverage of bonds or the proper repayment of covered bonds debts is at risk e.g. for the pre-debting of their issuer or in the event of the liquidation or withdrawal of the issuer's licence. The submitted amendment also introduces into the law the modification of so-called negative yield bonds or compulsory convertible bonds. The bill submitted is not a transposition. This is a national legislative regulation, but it respects European legislation and is fully in line with the commitments for the Czech Republic resulting from its membership of the European Union. In preparing the amendment, we were based on the experience of European countries with a developed capital market. As part of the preparation of the draft law, fundamental questions were consulted with a wide range of stakeholders, in particular the Czech Banking Association, the Ministry of Justice and the Czech National Bank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-009-033.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jiří Dolejš. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-009-033.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, good afternoon to you all. Madam Secretary has introduced you quite thoroughly to what this draft represents. Of course, when you hear the words of mortgage bonds, you will certainly imagine the whole problem that represents our entire mortgage sector and which naturally also bears certain macro-economic risks. You may also know the discussion between the Czech National Bank and mortgage institutions regarding mortgage regulation. This idea may return to the House much later. Although this bill is quite extensive in the papers, it has also been worked on for some time, but it concerns really only selected issues starting with the specification of the conceptual apparatus and then, let's say, the pre-condition of certain regimes and processes that the Minister has mentioned. I don't want to over-extend it, just to point out that mortgage mortgage bonds are a certain product that has evolved. When we started in 2002, we had about 30 billion in circulation. - for 30 billion. The crowns of these instruments. As for the past period, let's say 2016, so it was already half a trillion. So you can see that this is important after all, and the complexity of the standard, namely legal complexity, but of course also practical, is reflected in the fact that the regulation also had to be made to follow-up legal standards, i.e. that certain adjustments are achieved not only by the new regulation of the Act on these instruments, but also in the building savings, the State Housing Development Fund, capital market business, administrative fees, insolvency law and also the Act on recovery procedures that arose during the financial crisis. So it's more like a refill. So it is rather extensive material, so I assume that it is our common interest to discuss it properly and calmly so that at the end of it we can be proud that we have not produced any legislative scumbags and that we have helped this segment of the financial sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-009-033.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate where no one is logged in, nor do I see anyone reporting. So I am done with the general debate. I ask the Minister and the rapporteur if they are interested in the final word? [[- No. Rapporteur: No.]] They don't. Of course, there was no motion to return or refuse. So we will deal with the commandments of the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. There is a proposal from the Organising Committee to order the draft to be discussed by the Budget Committee as a guarantee committee. Would someone please suggest that the guarantee committee be another committee? I don't see a proposal like that. So we're going to vote on the guarantee committee being the budget committee. Initiating vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 125. 171 Members are registered, for 131, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantees. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Would any of the Members of Parliament please suggest another committee? He's not suggesting. And since there was no proposal to shorten or extend the deadline, I conclude the first reading of this item. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is point number
