ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-005-046.u1	46. Government bill on accessibility of websites and mobile applications and on amendment of Act No. 365/2000 Coll., on information systems of public administration and on the amendment of certain other laws, as amended /German press 170/ - First reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Interior Minister Lubomír Metnar. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall, many Members are leaving the hall.]] I will wait until I invite you to take the floor when the House calms down. I ask all colleagues to move the discussions into the foyer, as well as any phone calls or other activities unrelated to the press. Minister, is that enough for you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-005-046.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me mention the proposal for a law on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications. Its purpose is to transpose the Directive on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector entities into the Czech rule of law. The aim of this Directive is to ensure more accessible websites and mobile applications across the European Union. The proposed law is therefore intended to ensure the accessibility of websites and mobile applications to all their users, but in particular to persons with disabilities. The websites and mobile applications must be readable, manageable, understandable and stable for their users. The draft law defines the mandatory entities to which the obligation to ensure the accessibility of websites and mobile applications applies. They are the State, the local authorities, other legal entities of public law and their subsidiaries and finally qualified administrators of electronic identification systems. It determines the accessibility of websites and mobile applications. It regulates the institute of disproportionate burdens. Accessibility will only have to be ensured to the extent that the compulsory body does not incur undue burdens. He's adjusting the accessibility statement. It shall establish a complaint handling procedure in case accessibility is not ensured. It sets out the scope of the Ministry of Interior and finally contains a related legislative technical amendment to the Act on Information Systems of Public Administration. The provision of accessibility to websites and mobile applications is carried out on the basis of the requirements contained in the relevant European Union standards referred to in the draft law. This will ensure that the websites and mobile applications of obliged entities comply fully with European requirements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-005-046.u3	Thank you, too. I ask the rapporteur, who is Ondřej Profant, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-005-046.u4	Dear colleagues, the right to accessibility of information and services is generally enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, because it primarily concerns them. At present, this accessibility, i.e. the possibility of reaching an alternative content, is regulated by Decree No. 64/2008 Coll., but this legislation does not apply to all the entities that are affected by the already mentioned directive, which we transpose here. It also does not regulate a number of adjustments and obligations set out in the Directive. One of these obligations is the accessibility of mobile applications. This is not a very big issue yet, and so far no one has been doing much of this, but as the directive remembers, I think that is very reasonable. This applies only to 2021, when I think it will be a big topic for mobile applications of public administration to be accessible. This law addresses the accessibility of mobile applications from real problems, improves the accessibility of websites, for example, by such elements as Captcha, which is often completely inaccessible to people with disabilities today, and eliminates already old Flash or Silverlite technologies. This affects a whole series of subjects, de facto all public entities, with one exception, which I will still be talking about. From known information systems this affects, for example, the public administration portal, e Collections, tax portals, data boxes. Overall, I have a positive impression of this proposal. I think the European Union knows what it is doing in this case. However, I also have some concerns, and this is mainly § 7, an disproportionate burden, because it seems to me rather that this is an disproportionate possibility to avoid the obligation, because, in a very simple way, it is enough to say "it causes us disproportionate burdens, so we will not comply with this law" which does not seem good to me. Furthermore, I am not entirely sure by removing public media, which is the only group of entities that is excluded. The European directive makes this very clear by being covered by another directive, but the question is when the directive will be. On the other hand, I can imagine that this law could really cause some difficulty to the media to this extent, but I would certainly like to open this issue to committees, which I think is also a good place for a more comprehensive debate. I suggest you let this law go first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-005-046.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before I open the debate, I have some tickets here. Mr Michálek apologizes to us for the rest of the day for working reasons, Mr Strýček apologizes to us for the rest of the day also for work reasons, and Mrs Maxová apologizes to us from 18:00 to the end of today's day for health reasons. I am now opening a debate that I do not have applications for. Mr. Feri reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-005-046.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members of the Government, I thank the Minister and the Ministry that they have prepared quite in detail the impacts on the budgets of the various stakeholders concerned, but I would like to ask who will pay them if the Ministry expects to do so in a supplemental way. The amount for individual subjects is probably not absolutely essential, but it could represent a relatively large gap overall, with higher education institutions it could be hundreds of thousands. If there's any way we can count on it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-005-046.u7	Thank you, too. I'll fix the note. Mr. Strýček hasn't apologized to us until 6:15 p.m. Now I ask if there are any other applications for the debate. It does not seem that way, so I am ending the debate and I am asking for any final words. First, I ask the plaintiff if he's interested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-005-046.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to answer the question that was here. It is assumed that the cost of the website will be based on the maturity and state of the site from zero to no more than 18,000. There is a relatively rough spread of possible costs associated with de facto application of this law and introduction into the design state of these pages, as de facto those European standards require. At the moment, the intention is built to make the costs compulsory. The Ministry of Interior did not have this in its budget and did not expect the option that it would de facto pay for this website modification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-005-046.u9	Thank you, too. The rapporteur is also interested in the final word, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-005-046.u10	I too would like to answer Mr Ferim. This regulation, as transponed by Czech legislation, or this proposal, refers to a European recommendation that refers to commonly used standards of web applications and mobile applications. So every decent developer is already following them. I think that for large systems that are used for content management such as Wordpress, Drupal, Joomla, so all conditions are de facto automatically met, so it should not do it for reasonable applications at any great cost. The problem is where someone has something very special. That usually means it's very dysfunctional in a lot of ways.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-29-ps2017-013-05-005-046.u11	Well, thank you. Those were the final words. We shall now proceed to the vote. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. The motion for a re-evaluation or rejection has not been made, so we will now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee? It doesn't look like it, so we'll take the vote. I am opening the vote and I therefore ask who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 132, 167 Members were enrolled, for 142, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? It's not like that. In that case, I'm done talking. We will deal with the proposal later at second reading. I thank the appellant and the rapporteur and we will move on. Now the block of first reading begins. So the first is point number.
