ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u1	158. Financial Stability Report 2017/2018 /Household printing 219/ - first reading This report was submitted by the Czech National Bank in accordance with Act No.6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended. The report was discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered to you as House Press No 219/1. I would ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Karel Rais, inform us of the committee's deliberations and make a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u2	Hello, gentlemen and ladies, I would like to present the resolution of the budget committee of the 11th meeting of 5 September 2018 on the report by the Czech National Bank on financial stability, House press No 219. After the opening words of the representative of the Czech National Bank, Mr Frait, Member Rais's report, and following the debate of the Parliament's Chamber of Deputies Committee, first of all, takes note of the Czech National Bank's report on financial stability, second, recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Czech National Bank's report on financial stability in 2017/2018, and third, instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of this resolution, which I am doing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u3	Well, thank you, and I am opening a general debate. As usual, I'll ask the governor's opening words. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the main conclusions in the 14th report on financial stability. This report analyses the functioning of the Czech financial sector in 2017 and the first four months of 2018. In addition to the main information on the content of the report, I will add a few notes on developments in the financial sector following the publication of this report. As far as the report is concerned, it traditionally includes our principle, which we primarily apply in the area of financial stability, which is a forward view, a view of what can happen from the point of view of systemic risks in the next two to three years. Overall, we have found continuing to increase the risks associated with the cyclical development of the economy and the financial sector. This is what the Czech National Bank responded to with the tools of its macro-prudential policy, which I will now look at in more detail. A partial increase in cyclical risks is behind the easing of credit standards for loans to businesses and households, rapid growth in loans in a number of market segments and rising prices for residential and commercial real estate. In view of this situation, the Board proceeded to increase the countercyclical capital buffer rate from the current 1.25 % to 1,5 %, with effect from July next year. The basic logic of this countercyclical reserve is to use good times to create reserves, and thanks to these reserves, the banking sector can function without malfunctions even at worse times. In addition to the CNB, the non-zero rate of countercyclical reserve is set by the authorities in nine other countries of the European Union, four of which at a higher level than the Czech National Bank, i.e. above 1,5 percent. The CNB's decision will not have a negative impact on banks' ability to provide loans to businesses and households. Domestic banks are sufficiently capitalised and, provided a reasonable dividend policy, they still have sufficient room to meet this countercyclical capital buffer as well as to grow credit portfolios. On the other hand, our banking sector is no longer a European champion in terms of capitalization, as it was a few years ago. As regards the capital ratio at the total level of capital, this ratio is falling more and more significantly below the average of the European Union in the Czech Republic. As regards the capital ratio at the level of the best capital, it remains above the EU average in the Czech Republic, but only very slightly. From the perspective of the media and the public, part of the report focused on accumulation of the risks associated with housing financing has been given the greatest attention. This year too, credit dynamics and real estate prices continue to grow rapidly. We call this joint movement a spiral between property prices and loans for their acquisition. Data from the second half of last year indicate that the spiral is stopped by certain standards, but the favourable conditions for its renewal remain. Here I would like to point out that the warning about the impact of stricter LTV limits, or the value of the debt to the value of the pledge, did not come true after their tightening up in April 2017. In 2017, a record volume of new housing loans was provided. In recent weeks, there have been a number of comments in the media about how the volume of mortgage loans provided is decreasing. Unfortunately, these comments are based on data that, so to speak, mix apples with pears, that is, really, new loans with loans refinanced and rejuvenated. Indeed, the volumes of new mortgage loans remain high and have increased year on year between January and August. Also, the overall growth in housing loans remains high and its growth continues to be around 8.5%. It can therefore be assumed that this year's total volume of housing loans will increase by approximately CZK 100 billion. Following an evaluation of the information on the mortgage loans provided, the Board concluded that it is not necessary to reduce the limits of the LTV indicator, which applies since last April, that is to say the maximum limit of 90 per cent LTV and the aggregate 15% limit for LTV loans between 80 and 90 per cent. At around 15% of the overestimate of the housing prices indicated by our model, the current LTV limits in the CNB's view represent sufficient coverage of banks' potential risks at the border value. At the same time, we note that many loans have significantly more risky characteristics in terms of debt or debt repayment relative to the amount of the applicant's income. As the longer-lasting faster growth in housing prices in the income line has made debtors more vulnerable, the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank decided to extend the scope of the binding parts of the recommendations on the upper limits of the borrowers' ability to repay loans from its own resources, namely DTI and DSTI indicators. In order to limit those risks, we have decided to set the upper limit of the DTI indicator, i.e. net income debt, at nine times and debt service ratio to 45 per cent of the applicant's net annual income, with effect from 1. 10. 2018. At the same time, however, it allows providers, i.e. banks, to cover specific cases in the 5% exemption scheme. This means that 5 per cent of the cases of closed new mortgages do not have to meet these boundary indicators. [[14.40 hours]] In countries that apply DTI or DSTI limits similar to ours, the respective boundaries are set at similar, often more stringent levels. For example, the limit for the DTI indicator is set in Slovakia at eight times, five times in Norway and even four times in Ireland. The Financial Stability Report also presents as traditionally stress tests. These document in detail that the domestic financial sector continues to maintain relatively high resistance to possible adverse shocks. The credit risk expressed by the default rate on total loans is gradually decreasing due to the accelerating growth rate of the economy. In June 2018, this proportion slightly exceeded 3%. Such a low proportion of the so-called NPLs, i.e. loans in default or default, cannot be considered as evidence of a low level of risk and their prudent management. It is proof that we are in extremely good times. From our experience as well as from the experience of other developed countries, we know that the NPL's share often jumps to multiple levels with the onset of recession. The goal of our macroprudential policy is that this does not happen with the onset of worse times in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u5	Thank you, too. For the record only - Mrs Matušovská votes with the replacement card number 11. At the moment, Mr Ferjenčík, to whom I hereby give the floor, is entered into the debate in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Governor, I would like to ask you, in relation to this report, whether you find it happy - you have presented a number of countercyclical measures that the national bank is taking, and if it seems appropriate to you that the government is doing procyclical measures directly against that economic policy in the form of a state budget deficit. So I'd like to ask you for a comment on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u7	Thank you. The governor is interested in responding. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u8	Thank you for asking. We need to divide our monetary policy actions, that is, in the area where we aim to maintain low and stable inflation. There, of course, in view of economic developments, but also other circumstances, we are trying to gradually, slowly, interest rates, or those of our main interest rates, which we use in monetary policy, to get to some normal state, i.e. normal level, i.e. let's say to a level that would correspond to roughly 1% of the real return on assets. After deduction of inflation, therefore, somewhere to a nominal level of 2,5 to 3%. This, as you know, we have been doing since about April of last year, because the first step to normalizing monetary policy was to abandon the exchange rate commitment that took place at the beginning of April of last year, and then, starting from August, we proceeded to raise the basic interest rate, which means a two-week repose, by 25 basis points, if I am not mistaken, six times already. That means today we're at 1.5% point. After deduction of inflation, this means that our basic interest rate is still essentially negative. However, the period when the positive core interest rate of the central bank has been reached over the past 25 years was not so much. But we're still far from normal after all. Of course, we perceive the macroeconomic environment, including the fiscal situation. On that budgetary policy, I would say only that the total public finances that are decisive for us for macroeconomic assessments are in surplus. There are roughly over 1% of GDP in the surplus. This surplus wasn't just last year, but it was last year. According to our estimates, it will be this year and about the following year and possibly two years. So while the state budget is budgeted with a small deficit, there is no fiscal expansion in terms of general public finances. There is a certain release of the budgetary policy. I guess that's understandable. This is particularly related to the frequency or rhythm of the drawing of European funds, which significantly affects Czech budgetary policy. In this respect, we do not have to react in some way dramatically to our monetary policy that these two policies are extremely different here. I'm sure that's not happening. As far as macro-prudential measures are concerned, we do not respond to budgetary policy or to overall macroeconomic developments. We actually respond to them in order to ensure, as far as possible, that our banks remain healthy even after these extremely good times have ended. So every policy has its own tools. That is an old economic policy principle, and we are sticking to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u9	Thank you. The next one is entered into discussion by Mr Skopeček, who I hereby give the floor to. And I'll ask my colleague and colleagues, if possible, to transfer the discussion to the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u10	Thank you for the floor. My esteemed colleagues, my colleagues, Mr Governor, maybe I should follow up on Mr Ferjenčík. I would also ask your opinion on how you evaluate policy coordination by the government and the Czech National Bank. Because not only is the deficit expansive against the monetary policy that's tightening, but you were talking about the mortgage tightening. The government of the Czech Republic started providing state mortgages. There is the Ministry of Regional Development's government programme for this, which I see as a flagrant opposite policy by the government, which on the one hand wants to help and wants to provide mortgages for young couples at the moment, on the other hand, the Czech National Bank warns against the growth of mortgage loans. So my question is not about the budget deficit and monetary policy, but my question is about the state mortgages that the government has begun to provide versus your tightening up of macro-prudential policy in relation to mortgage provision. Of course, I do not question your right to do so and the independence of monetary policy. Nevertheless, I would like to express the view that I do not see the reason for tightening up the mortgage provision, even in the context of slowing down the standard currency instruments at an interest rate and increasing the price of money for those households who are thinking about mortgage lending, which, of course, will result in them taking less. I agree that the price of real estate is high in the Czech Republic, but I would not allow the court to say that it is 15 percent overvalued. It simply reflects the market situation, reflecting the demand and supply situation, when we know that the problem is particularly on the supply side, because few new properties are being built. The problem is, of course, the most pressing in the capital city of Prague. And it will solve nothing more than restarting the construction of new apartment buildings, especially in Prague. No prudential policy of the Czech National Bank will lead to a solution to the fatal problem, which is the lack of flats. I also disagree with this tightening up because when we look at and compare indicators such as the debt of Czech households, such as loans in default with Czech banks, what is the average debt by mortgages on the domestic side, so when we compare it to abroad, we are very, very above average in these indicators. You said that banks will nevertheless have a 5% exception to special cases. That's how I'd react. Think about who's gonna make that exception. If it's an individual, a single household that might want to reconstruct their property or get an apartment, or if it's a large developer company that's connected to banks and actually offers the client a real estate sale with the service to help him broker a mortgage. Of course, the five-percent exceptions will be kept by banks for large developers, with whom they work, with whom they have a large business, and, of course, the small individual will not be left with this exception. For all these reasons, I do not see this as a positive measure, but it is my opinion, I respect your independence in this case to decide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u11	Thank you. The Governor will respond to the questions raised.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By your means, I will try to respond to the question or opinion of the Member. I agree with him that our measure will not solve the lack of supply of new or basically new properties, new flats on the market, especially in those locations where the tension is greatest. We also do not have the task of dealing with housing policy here in the Czech Republic. That's just not our mandate, and we can't really do anything about it. We have a legal obligation to take care of financial stability in this country. Financial stability means that the financial sector in our country is almost equal to the bank, because more than 75 percent of all financial sector assets are in banks, it is equal to caring that Czech banks will be stable, resistant to fluctuations that necessarily come in a cyclical economy such as the market economy. If we have assessed the situation over the last few years that the growth in loans to finance the purchase and purchase of real estate is highly above average, we are among the countries where these loans are growing by far the fastest in Europe, along with Slovakia and a few other countries, then, of course, we must respond to that. The fact that the existing levels of debt of Czech households are lower than that of Western Europe is absolutely fine, you are right, I will not contradict that. However, to argue with a situation that is obviously critical in many cases, because the debt of Western European households in some countries is really a problem, it is not, in my view, an argument for us not to take precautions of a preventive nature that will lead and lead us to avoid getting into such a situation as far as possible. So we're not really shouting that it's burning, but we're pointing out that if we don't take some precautions, it can sometimes burn, and if it burns, we're not ready to deal with the fire fast enough and efficiently. And here we are fulfilling our legal mandate. As for what the state is doing, the state has some housing policy, for it uses various tools, the state also responds to specific situations, say, which are not possible on the first pages of the newspaper, because on the first pages of the newspaper it is that what is the tragedy that a young university graduate will not be able to buy his own property in Prague now. Well, I'm warning you, it's a normal condition. This is the normal state of my young years, this is the normal state of 99 percent of all capitals in Europe, and I think this is the normal state in the Czech Republic. So state policy aims to make it easier, if possible, for people who want to purchase real estate on, say, an extreme market such as Prague, to have it, with, of course, lower possibilities of earnings, which are in the regions, or it is a kind of social support for the acquisition of real estate to a limited extent. If the state somehow invests in this matter in the hundreds of millions of crowns, perhaps billions of dollars, it is clear that it cannot replace the mortgage market that serves 100 billion or more crowns a year. That, I guess, wasn't even the ambition of the state. I don't see a major contradiction. We're targeting banks. We're not targeting families, young, old, middle-aged. We are targeting banks because this is our responsibility and therefore we are implementing these macro-prudential measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u13	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Skopeček. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u14	Thank you for the floor. I respect that, of course, that you are implementing such a macroprudential policy, but don't be angry with me, the example of this student is pulling his ears. It is clear that any commercial bank would not lend a mortgage to a college student without high income even before your regulation. Let us not make the Czech National Bank the only institution guarding rational lending to the private sector. It is clear that a student without income would not be lent to a commercial bank by virtue of knowing that such a student would not pay off a mortgage loan. In my opinion, the Czech National Bank is trying to replace the risk management of commercial banks here. It is clear that even without these regulations, which the Czech National Bank is using at the moment, banks are monitoring whether or not the client is bonita, how bonita it is and whether it is worth lending to the client. And regardless of the Czech National Bank, in some cases the bank simply provides a mortgage because the client seems bonita and knows that it will pay it off, sometimes it will not. And perhaps it is logical that no commercial bank would have provided such a mortgage loan to such a college student because it would have known. Second thing. You mentioned that you were only drawing attention to this approach to the possibility of a crisis. It's not just a heads-up. This has real economic consequences. And the real economic consequences are that it's not about the student. These mortgage loans aren't gonna be touched by the tightening up and medium-income family anymore. That's obvious. It is statistically clear that a number of middle class people who have touched mortgages in the past will not touch the mortgage after this tightening up. It's the group that's the most involved, and it's gonna damage it the most, and it's gonna help who? It will help wealthy investors who will meet your criteria and who will thus purchase a second, third, fourth apartment to buy as an investment. These measures will help, the middle layer will damage it. [[Your time.]] It's not just about hinting, it has profound economic consequences.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u15	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Tomáš Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u16	Hello. I'm just gonna fill this in for a little while, too. We have just introduced today a bill introducing a reduced rate of property acquisition tax for certain groups of natural persons, namely those who want to buy property for their own permanent housing and do not own any other real estate. So we also respond to your regulation by wanting to improve the availability of our own housing, because some things in this recommendation are really special, especially those that rely on the revenue side, when they must have income over a certain period, in nine years, and 45 percent of the monthly payments... Today, when a lot of people work on an agreement or are employed on a fixed-term basis, and banks often do not recognise these temporary work as an acceptable income, this can actually significantly reduce the availability of mortgages for a large proportion of the population, and therefore we are trying to respond in some way to make the availability better. And we don't think the revenue pages are entirely relevant, especially when the CNB says that there are properties on average overpriced by some 16 percent, which should be fully covered by the first condition in the LTV 20 percent. Thank you for the opportunity to comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u17	Thank you. Another factual point, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u18	Thank you for the floor. In fact, I would like to respond to my previous speaker. First of all, we consider the regulation to be unnecessarily strict. But the availability of housing can be significantly increased by other measures so that houses and apartments can be built. This is the biggest problem the Czech Republic has today. And for that, we need a new, simple and more efficient building law. Those mortgages are very often for the property or apartment that already exists. I agree with what you said and what other previous speakers said that it would become very problematic for the middle class. I was wondering, and maybe the governor knows from his head, I don't know how much you'd have to have in Prague if you wanted to buy a three-bedroom apartment. How much a year's salary and how much a month's salary do you have to pay to make it happen? A hundred thousand, says the Vice Prime Minister. [[Hake]] It's possible. And how many of these cases do we have? And who has 90,000, isn't middle class anymore? It's just overburned. I agree that these parameters are more stringent in other states. But I'll ask the governor where there's a combination of these three parameters. Let's not say that the one is more stringent - five-year-old in Norway, they have the other two, and they're just as strict or not. Then it's worth comparing when I put all the parameters next to me. And you have to meet all of them, not one. If there was one, we could use foreign examples if they have one parameter. But if he has to meet all three, it's very problematic. I just wanted to point out that in the debate on housing availability, it is much more crucial to improve the construction law. And we also have a three-day election to make the council think about it, to discuss reasonable changes in the zoning plan, to enable the construction of family or housing houses.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u19	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. And now Mr Vojtěch Munzar is entered into the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr. Governor, my colleagues have already taken it from my mouth. I also wanted to comment on the mortgage regulation that happened, de facto since yesterday, the restriction. I personally believe that, as my previous speakers have said, there will be a restriction on the possibility of buying ownership for the middle class. It is not just a warning, as you have said here, Mr Governor, but it is a really big impact on the economic standard and, above all, the standard of living of our citizens, because the need for housing in these people is not going to decrease. There will be no reduction in the need for housing in the Czech Republic. You limit the demand for property housing by tightening the provision of mortgages, but this demand for housing moves into rental housing, where the supply-side problem is the same as the property-sided one, there is a shortage of apartments. So this will only lead to an increase in rent prices, and those people who will be forced to stay in rental housing in this way will be reduced by space to save, for example, mortgages, because they will have to spend more on the rental price. That is why I think that ownership housing should not be plannedly defended, but that is what the Czech National Bank has been doing with its actions lately. Unlike you - because you are somewhere, Mr Governor, he said with all due respect that there is a fetishization of property housing in the Czech Republic, which you consider to be a fling - I think ownership housing leads to the responsibility of our citizens, leads to their life security and should therefore be supported. And the CNB's actions, although of course I respect your independence, respect your efforts to protect the banking sector and our citizens' pre-debtedness, I do not think that they will lead to an improvement in the economic situation in the Czech Republic, but, on the contrary, to a deterioration in the situation of many citizens and especially the middle class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u21	Thank you. With a point of fact, the Volný Member shall be registered. I don't see the MP, so I'm erasing him. Maybe it's some kind of technical accident. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. Mr. Governor. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to respond, although I understand that my answers will probably not satisfy the Members of Parliament. I may repeat myself for what I apologize to others for. First of all, I didn't talk about a student, and if I did, it was a mistake, I meant a college graduate. Second, in terms of bank's own risk management. Of course, banks have their own rules, the rules that we also supervise have everything, let's say formally, as it should be. But let's be realistic. The financial market, in particular the banking market, is extremely competitive and competitive. Banks live on loans, that's their main product, that's their product. And banks need to sell loans because if they don't sell, they won't have profits. And, of course, the profits are demanded by their parent companies. Banks, with all due respect to their colleagues in the banks, are under tremendous pressure from their management and in a particular bank under enormous pressure from managers who are responsible for the business to simply sell, to squint their eye out every now and then. Otherwise, of course, they won't have a bonus and so on. And we're here for that, we have independence, that's why we have it, that's why we're this institution of the state, to take care of this independent supervision and to assess the situation regardless of these market criteria, which, of course, are understandable in the case of banks. Yes, there are countries that use three indicators in combination. I don't have a list in my head, not many. It is certainly Slovakia, which has already started to apply three indicators a long time before us. He's even got them tougher than us. Some countries have two indicators, some countries have only one. For example, in Scandinavia it is quite common: Norway, Denmark. Other countries are moving towards this, because the situation, although much slower than in our country, is developing in a similar direction. And once again, it is not our job to address the availability of housing, solve the offer of flats on the market, solve the construction law, from that there are other state bodies, we cannot replace this. On the other hand, we cannot renounce our own responsibilities, tasks and competences simply because it will also cause some limitations. Yes, every regulation causes some limitations, but it is done because it is in the interests of the majority that these restrictions for the minority ultimately lead to a generally more favourable situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u23	Thank you. Mr Munzar is signed up with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u24	Thank you, Mr. Governor, for your answer. However, I do not really believe that this is in favour of the majority. On the contrary, most of the middle class in particular will not reach the mortgage, and the final result of the increase in living costs due to rising rent prices, as demand shifts from ownership to rental housing, will simply mean a major impact not only on the population's living standards but also on the economy. I think the look you gave us here was too narrow, from my point of view, even though I understand your explanation. I would also like to respond by your means, Mr President, to my colleague Martínek. I am glad that the pirate party now wants to sign up for our original proposal - reduction or cancellation of property acquisition tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u25	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u26	I just have to speed up that the proposal we're putting forward doesn't deal with the annulment. This is really an adjustment, with the introduction of a reduced rate, which should certainly help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-002-158.u27	Thank you for a brief factual remark. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking if there's interest in any final words. The rapporteur is not interested. The governor is not interested in the final word. We will proceed to a detailed debate which I am opening up with this. I ask if anyone is interested in speaking in a detailed debate on this point. I don't see anybody, I'm ending a detailed debate. [[15.10 hours]] We will therefore vote on the motion for a resolution, which has already been presented to us by rapporteur Rais, which reads: 'The Chamber of Deputies of Parliament takes note of the Czech National Bank Report on Financial Stability 2017/2018'. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby, but there's plenty of us, I think. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Some of them are jogging today. Who's against it? Voting number 186, registered is 172, for 133, against no one. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. Thank you and end this point. Opening point number
