ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-007-013.u1	13. Government bill amending Act No. 311/2013 Coll., on the transfer of ownership to units and group family houses of some housing cooperatives and on the amendment of certain laws /house printing 56/ - second reading I will ask that Mrs Klára Dostálová and Mr Martin Kupka, who is rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, take their place at the rapporteur's table of rapporteurs. At the same time, I will also request the preparation of Mr Marek Benda, who is rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Law. I note that, at first reading, we have ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I will now ask Minister Klára Dostálová to take the floor. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-007-013.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to mention the following item in the programme, which is the draft law amending Act No. 311/2013 Coll., on the transfer of ownership to units and group family houses of some housing cooperatives and on the amendment of certain laws. This proposal was discussed in the Constitutional Legal Committee, which recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to approve it in the text submitted. In addition, the proposal was discussed in the Sub-Committee on Housing Policy and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, where some related issues were discussed, in particular, regarding the repayment of loans for repairs, modernisation and reconstruction of houses drawn by housing cooperatives. First of all, I would like to draw closer to the proposed amendment and its original objective. Law No 311/2013 Sb. Section 24 regulates the advantage of the so-called delayed establishment of a community of owners for some housing cooperatives, former so-called SBD and LBD. But not for all these cooperatives, but only for those who started transferring apartments before 1. 7. 2000 and at the same time started with the administration of common parts. This advantage was part of the already repealed Housing Property Act, but in a somewhat broader form. According to the annulled regulation, the ex lege community was formed when the cooperative's share in the common parts fell below one quarter. Until then, the cooperative had been acting as administrator and decided on common home management issues, although it already had a share in common parts of less than one half. The new law in 2012, 2013 adopted, on the basis of an amendment to its approval, an adjustment according to which the mandatory formation of SVJ after the new regulation was effective, was linked to a reduction in the share of housing cooperatives in the common parts of houses instead of the originally established threshold of a fall below one quarter to a fall below one half. This led to the fact that the legal regulation did not fall on those cooperatives where the proportion of housing cooperatives fell below one half before the law was effective, but did not fall below one quarter when the community would have been formed under the regulation. That's how the housing team got into the so-called housing team. Legal vacuum. The aim of the proposed regulation is therefore to remove the substantive error of the existing text in order to make it clear that the deferred establishment and establishment of the community of owners of the units should occur after the reduction of the co-ownership share of the housing cooperative in the common parts of the houses under one half, at the same time to apply the rules under Section 24 also to those housing cooperatives where the joint ownership share of the common parts of the house has decreased to less than one half before the date of the entry into force of the Civil Code and this special law, and thirdly to clearly determine for what number of votes the owners of the units the assembly is eligible for negotiation and quorum under this law. In addition to the proposed proposal, the issue of repayment of loans drawn by housing cooperatives for repairs, modernisation and reconstruction of common parts at a time when the house was already divided into units owned by other owners was discussed. In these cases, undoubtedly, the credit agreement was indebted to the owners of the units at the time of the conclusion of the credit agreement. On the basis of this fact, an amendment was proposed in the course of the negotiations of the guarantee committee, according to which commitments from outstanding loans were to be passed by law to the community of owners of units, with the obligation to repay and guarantee liabilities from outstanding loans being excluded by owners who are no longer obliged to repay, without their further specification. Based on the debate with representatives of Czech-Moravian housing cooperatives and banking associations, we have actually come to the conclusion that it is a question whether the liabilities from the credit agreement have also passed on to legal representatives - successors of the original owners obliged from the credit agreement, or these new owners were obliged to repay the loan from another legal title, e.g. because of the recognition of debt or settlement agreement, or the obligation has passed on to them because it was stated in the transfer agreement, or the obligation to repay the loan simply ceased. This question cannot be addressed satisfactorily by the legal text and in the light of the diversity of practice. Therefore, it is appropriate to leave the solution in individual cases to housing cooperatives until the loan has been repaid. That is why another amendment was prepared by Mr Kupka, who was discussed with both the banking association and representatives of the association of Czech-Moravian housing cooperatives, and which I recommend to accept. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-007-013.u3	Thank you, Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová. And I recall the resolution of the committee delivered as House press 56/1 and 2. First, I ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Martin Kupka, to inform us of the committee's discussion. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-007-013.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, Mr President, everything that should have been said here to present the proposed amendment has been heard. At the same time, it was also said that we were looking for a way in the guarantee committee to treat a case where housing cooperatives committed themselves to loans and their repayment and, in the regime of delayed establishment of the owners' community, their insolvency and inability to repay loans could also occur. In a detailed debate, I will then present a total of three amendments. One that came out of a guarantee committee meeting. Another, most up-to-date, which probably best solves the problem. And another one that concerns the effectiveness of the whole novel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-007-013.u5	Thank you, Mr Martin Kupek, for his intelligence report. I will ask for Mr Marek Benda's report on constitutional law. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-007-013.u6	Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. The Constitutional Committee discussed the matter quite thoroughly, but finally recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the original government bill without any changes or additions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-007-013.u7	Thank you, Mr Marek Benda, for the report of the Constitutional Legal Committee, and I am opening a general debate in which I do not have a written application. I'm asking who's reporting from place to general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. In that case, there is probably no interest in the final words after the general debate. We will therefore discuss the debate in detail, which I am initiating. I recall that the amendments tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. This is the rapporteur, Kupka, who announced his appearance. You have the floor in a detailed debate, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-007-013.u8	Thank you for the floor. I would therefore like to read three amendments. The first one shall be kept in the system under number 794 and shall deal with the entry into force referred to in this amendment on the first day of the calendar month following its publication. Furthermore, I would like to read and subscribe to Amendment 795 in a system that addresses the gap in the event of the delayed establishment of the owners' community by transferring commitments to the future entity, as the guarantee committee for public administration and regional development has just discussed. Finally, I would like to read the last amendment, the latest one in the system under the number 797, which deals with the problem in such a way that where there is a really outstanding commitment on the part of the housing managers, it is not the institute of deferred creation that applies to them until they either pay off or their share falls below one quarter. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-22-ps2017-013-01-007-013.u9	I thank the rapporteur and ask who else in the detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. Madam Secretary? It's not like that. Mr. Rapporteur? It's not like that. A colleague of Benda's? Not either. I can therefore end the second reading of this proposal because there was no proposal that we could vote on at second reading. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteurs and I finish this point. We will continue with the point
