ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u1	8. Members of Václav Klaus, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended /house print 61/ - first reading Once again, I will ask for the presence of both the appellants' representatives and the rapporteur's. We will continue the adjourned debate. Mr Milan Pour, to whom I will give the floor, is now entered in the debate with a proper application. Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be ready. I'll ask the House for some peace. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u2	Mr President, dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I have met in the last three months as Mayor Milovice and a Member with a number of suggestions and comments through personal meetings, e-mails and telephone conversations regarding pre-school education. Unfortunately, it is obvious and obvious that this topic, as well as the inclusion of primary schools, is one of the hot topics that needs to be addressed. In January 2018, a group of Members led by Mr Václav Klaus ml. a proposal for an amendment to the School Act. The government assessed whether the proposal in question meets the necessary information and formalities in its opinion. At this point, however, I would like to comment on the intended content of this proposal, which is the abolition of compulsory pre-school education for children from the fifth year of age and the abolition of the obligation to receive children from two years of age into pre-school education. With Mr Václav Klaus Jr.'s views. As an expert on education, I agree to the greatest extent, but for their confirmation I have yet to meet those who can certainly give the most qualified insight into this issue, and these are the directors and teachers in kindergartens. First of all, let me mention briefly in my commentary on compulsory pre-school attendance for children from the fifth year of age. Children who reach six years of their age in a given school year, i.e. so-called preschoolers, have been admitted to kindergarten for many years on a priority basis, given the setting of criteria for admission to kindergarten. Unlike other parents of these children, education is not paid, which means tuition, only meals are paid. As a result, most preschool children go to kindergarten. Since September 2017, compulsory schooling has also been introduced for preschoolers. The aim was to force parents who did not apply to preschoolers to put their children in kindergarten at least in the last year. Thus, there has been a large administration to kindergarten schools and municipalities, which partly includes an almost detective search for whether all children of the appropriate age are enrolled in a preschool facility. [[12.40 hours]] With compulsory attendance, it was necessary to introduce an obligation for parents to justify the absence of a child, as we know from primary schools. However, the rules for this apology were not centrally set, so each kindergarten had to deal with it itself, as a result of which the conditions for apologizing to children in different kindergartens are different. Some kindergartens require a note from a doctor to excuse the absence of a longer fixed number of days, but some doctors are said to refuse to issue such certificates with reference to the fact that this is not their legal obligation. At this stage, the administration associated with the registration of apologies and possible reports of unforgivable children on OSPOD were added to the kindergarten. At the same time, however, legislation allows parents who do not want to place their children in kindergarten through the introduction of compulsory pre-school education to report to a school in kindergarten that they will educate their children individually. In such a case, the child is then subjected to an examination for which, however, there are no rules again and is therefore again in a specific kindergarten or, as the teacher may have done, as the case may be. What is important, however, is that a place must be kept in kindergarten for children who are educated at home. It is written here as an incoming one, in case the conditions for completing individual education are fulfilled. In such a case, the next day should take proper attendance. Thus, there was once again an administration related to the registration of home-educated children and their checking. In addition, home-educated children who do not go to kindergarten take up a place for other children who cannot be admitted to kindergarten even though their parents are interested. The result of this compulsory preschool education is therefore a significant increase in the administration for kindergarten schools, which largely affects teachers, whose main task should be to educate children. At the same time, parents who do not want to bring their children to kindergarten can take advantage of the possibility of further home education, but it is not possible to accept the child of parents who would want to attend their child in kindergarten. The parents of other preschoolers are then forced to apologize for the absence of their child. I will mention the compulsory admission of children from two years of age to attendance in kindergarten. Compulsory admission of children who have completed two years of age, i.e. a year younger than usual now, to attend a kindergarten is a matter which also complicates the operation of kindergarten schools. In the past, children who had reached three years of age were admitted to kindergartens. Younger children who had to be provided for during the day to be taken care of, for example because of the work of parents, visit a special health facility, a nursery. This limit of three years of age has its reasons in the physical and psychological development of the child. Children under the age of three have completely different needs and options than children over the age of three. There's been a lot of opinions and facts about that from the other previous speakers here. Kindergartens are educational establishments and their priority task is to educate children. I stress once again: educate children. However, two-year-olds do not yet have the need to be educated, these children are to be cared for and raised. In kindergarten, there is a daily rhythm and a regime that the average two-year-old is unable to accept. Such small children are not able to cooperate, often they are not self-sufficient in self-service, whether it be changing, using toilets, etc. The activities that older children perform do not interest them, do not understand them, do not enjoy them, and therefore the older children cancel, in the worst case they hurt them, such as toy throwing etc. If there is a limited number of these children in the class, for example, usually one, two, it can be argued that a nanny can be used for these children. However, this claim is valid only to a limited extent. Even a babysitter will disturb other children to some extent. Moreover, the very presence of the nanny, as well as the teaching assistants, naturally competes with the role of the teacher as the leader of the team. The biggest problem, however, is that if a nanny is absent due to incapacity for work, care for her own sick child and in other cases, in which case it is not possible to leave a small child to parents at home, i.e. the obligation to care for the child or children, then she is transferred to the teacher. This cannot then be fully devoted to other children, i.e. as a result, education provided to older children has to get worse. Another issue, not often discussed publicly, is the declining motivation of kindergarten teachers to pursue their jobs. Kindergarten teachers studied preschool education mostly because they wanted to educate preschool children. This work, however, goes through a number of changes over time, which require an ever-increasing amount of time for teachers to carry out administrative tasks. Teachers now have to deal with children enrolled in inclusion, which is particularly difficult in mentally disabled children. The number of foreigners with whom communication is more difficult is multiplied. The intervention of the day-to-day kindergarten regime by the attendance of two-year-olds, which can be expected to be numerous from September 2020, when the corresponding adjustment is due to enter into force, means for a number of teachers the famous last drop, which will mean the end of their teacher's work. Unfortunately, kindergartens are already struggling with a lack of qualified teachers. As in the case of both practitioners and teachers in kindergarten schools, women in retirement age are largely women. The addition of new forces to kindergartens is very difficult. Graduates of secondary education schools do not get into practice, and if they get in, they often fail to carry out the work for long and leave. This is another problem that will need to be resolved in the future, but the solution to this issue would already go beyond the scope of this contribution. Little emphasis but also a serious problem is the material equipment of kindergarten schools. Kindergarten equipment is certified for children from three years of age. These are mainly outdoor elements: swings, climbing frames, slides.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u3	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for some peace. I think it is still possible to act here within 13 hours really so that anyone who speaks, to whom the word has been given can present his speech in a truly dignified environment. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u4	I, too, thank the President. I'll keep going. However, equipment within nursery schools is primarily intended for children over three years of age, whether toys or, for example, an ambulance in bathrooms. If a child under three years of age is injured in the school's garden using elements certified for children over three years of age, the kindergarten will not be able to claim any claim against the manufacturer of such an element. Kindergarten facilities cost the founder a considerable amount of money, but the needs of two-year-olds may not match and often do not respond. It is clear from the above that a special facility should be set up for the care of two-year-olds, where the environment, as well as staffing, will correspond to children of this type of age. Nowadays, a number of private kindergartens work, where it is possible to provide for younger children, as well as in many cities there are also private crèches. [[12.50 hours]] As part of the discussion of this problem, more often than before, opinions are now being expressed that the reason for reducing the threshold for the admission of children to kindergartens for a year was to help single mothers who cannot afford the attendance of a child in these private establishments. If there really is such a socially desirable order, then, in my opinion, it is necessary to solve this problem by setting up specialized facilities from public sources, as would be needed at the beginning of the mentioned crèche. However, it is not even appropriate to move this problem to kindergartens that have been set up for education. It should be noted that the final result is that, in addition to the problems described above, in particular the delivery of a less quality service, which is education for those for whom kindergartens are primarily set up, i.e. children over three years of age. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] For all these reasons, I therefore take the view that the legislation contained in Law No. 178/2016 Sb. In order to encourage nursery schools to receive children aged from two years of age whose effectiveness is planned for 1 September 2020 should be abolished. If we conclude, after carrying out the necessary analyses, that the guarantee of placing children under three years of age outside the family is desirable and necessary, then I believe that we need to look for ways to place these children in specialized facilities of the sage type that meet their needs and will not mean a deterioration of the level of education provided to children older. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u5	I thank Mr Milan Pour for his speech. And before I give the floor to my colleague Valachová, allow me to read the apology received by the President of the House. From 10.55 to 13:00, Mr Rostislav Vyzula apologizes for health reasons; the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok apologises from 11.30 to the end of the day for working reasons; Mrs Monika Jarošová from 14.30 to the end of the day; and Mrs Věra Adámková from 14 to 16.00 for working reasons. Now, then, Mrs Valachová's speech. A colleague of mine Matusovsky will be Matušovská. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a few more information which has not yet been mentioned in the debate and which I consider important for the decision of the Chamber of Deputies. Based on expert independent representative research, we know that most citizens in the Czech Republic welcome and support, agree with compulsory pre-school education. Based on the same representative independent research, I note the Academy of Sciences, we know that most citizens in the Czech Republic agree and support pre-school education for children under the age of three. Those are the facts. I take it that this is a task for us politicians to respond to this demand. But, of course, not at the expense of the teacher. Not at the expense of not dealing with existing current conditions in kindergartens. That's right. From the debate, as it is, I am a little confused that no one denies, on the one hand, that for many years, and it will continue to be so, at least half the population year, that is, about 45 thousand children, or 45 to 50 thousand children under the age of three, that is, two-year-olds, in kindergarten schools is and will be, and we are currently discussing a proposal that, in my opinion, does not solve anything at all in this matter, only says: let us not guarantee seats for the remaining children from this population year of 2020. I note that we have spring 2018, we are talking about September 2020. From my point of view, it doesn't solve anything. Similarly, there are different opinions on compulsory pre-school education or whether or not a parent should pay remuneration for the education of a child from five to six years old. From my point of view, my fellow Members, as I have been listening to this debate the second day, I do not feel that there would be a majority here for the abolition of compulsory pre-school education, nor a majority for the introduction of a payment from five to six years of age. There is certainly a majority on the basis of the ongoing debate at least to adjust the guarantee of places for children from 2020, which are less than three years old. I also regret that, on the one hand, we are at risk of costing us, if this remains the way it is, to complete the capacity of kindergarten schools. And it is true, it costs money and effort, and especially the efforts of mayors and mayors of our municipalities and cities, on the other hand, with one breath as politicians, we agree that we want to reduce the number of children in kindergarten classes. And it is clear to all of you that, especially in dynamically developing regions, of course, it will be necessary if we really want to do this, if it is not just to play with kindergartens and with teachers, and we want to reduce the number of children in classes from existing high numbers to 20, so it will also cost us capacity building. And I would really like to keep in mind when we cancel that, above all, we should deal with the conditions that are at the moment, and the conditions of the teachers who are already in kindergarten, and the children who are in kindergarten, including children under three years of age. I am stressing this here because these two things are constantly being confused in this debate. The current situation and possibly planned in September 2020. I would also like to comment on the fact that more colleagues have said that we have some special technical, hygienic, food and fire safety regulations for children under the age of three. This is a matter that the Ministry of Education has addressed and issued a common methodological instruction with the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Interior, the Fire Rescue Corps and the Ministry of Regional Development of January 2017, which is publicly available and demonstrates, and is, of course, a tool for the heads of kindergartens, that all the regulations we have on these sections concern two groups of children. In three years - listen - within three years and then over three years. This means that all the regulations that apply to a three-year-old also apply to a two-year-old. That means nothing like what was said here is true. Please take a look at this methodological instruction, take a look at the opinions that are official of all resorts, and it is their common position. I note that I know from the heads of kindergartens that from time to time they become "victims" of an inspection body that bullies them beyond the law, asking them to do something they have no right to do. That's right. But we should call it a no, not a spread that maybe it's something special. But what certainly results from the debates with kindergarten teachers and the heads of kindergartens, and that is the true nature of the thing that is not mentioned here at all, is the absolute underestimating of personnel equipment, part-time provision in kindergartens, that is to say, teachers and nannies. And, of course, this is a matter that needs to be addressed, but the bill, as it is on the table, doesn't bring anything in that direction. It doesn't solve what the real problem is, it means the number of teachers per class or the number of nanny per class. Again, to children who are already in kindergarten. From the point of view of the bill, as it is presented, I believe that although the debate is conducted in a matter of fact, correct and there is a lot of truth here, from my point of view, as the bill is presented, the abolition of the planned guarantee from 2020 does not address anything at all in terms of the current situation in kindergarten schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u7	Thank you, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. I have factual remarks here, but it is 12.59, so I apologise both to Mr Marek Výborný and Vice-President Fial, who also declared himself with priority rights. I'll interrupt the lunch break meeting. But, in particular, I remind the members of the Organising Committee that it is a meeting of the Organising Committee. I'll meet you at the latest at 13.05. Once again, I will thank the representatives of the appellants and the rapporteurs and we will continue with the suspended item of the meeting at 14.30 this afternoon. I'm interrupting the meeting until 14.30 and wish you a good meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 14.30, and I welcome you to the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies which I hereby initiate. Before we continue discussing our program, I'll introduce you to an apology. From today's meeting, Mrs Balaštíková apologises from 17 to the end of the day for reasons of work. We will now continue to discuss the proposal of Members of Václav Klaus, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura and others to issue a law amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, i.e. school law, as amended. I remind you that we are in the first reading, we are in the middle of a general debate, and I ask that Mr Václav Klaus and Mr Lukáš Bartoň take the position of the rapporteur's chair for the applicant and the rapporteur for the first reading, which has also happened. However, the problem we have to deal with is that there is no member of the government present, and under such conditions we should not continue to discuss this or any other point. So I am interrupting the House of Deputies until a member of the current government arrives. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 14.32 to 14.35 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister - we have now represented the government by one member, Mr Minister of Education, so that we can continue to discuss this proposal and at all the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. It is now Mr Výborný's turn to make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u9	Thank you for the floor. It's a bit of a rough situation right now, I want to respond to my colleague Valachová, and no one remembers what has been said. I will just remind you of this through you, Mr President, Mrs Valachová said something in the sense that we are dealing with a hypothetical problem that may occur in 2020. Well, I dare say, if there's a law, it applies to everyone. For parents, for founders, for the heads of kindergartens, and we all have to follow that law. So the law applies, and it's obvious that we're not ready for this in 2020. That's why the petitioner presented a novel here. So let's not say that we're dealing with some problem that maybe - not maybe that could happen in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u10	Thank you. Mrs Valachová, with a point of fact, and I assume that the application to the debate is not yet deleted from the morning. Yes. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u11	I will only respond by your means, Mr President, to a colleague of the Výborný. That's not what I said. I told you, we're confused about two situations in this debate. One situation is present, which is long-term - 45,000 children of two-year-olds in kindergarten. And the second situation is the future. We have spring 2018 and we are talking about September 2020 in terms of guaranteeing places for all children. That's all. And that the proposal, as it is presented, does not address the substance of the matter, because it disturbs future guarantees, but does not respond in any way to the fact that 45,000 children of two-year-olds are in kindergarten schools, and that is the essence of the problem that kindergarten schools are now dealing with. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u12	Thank you. And I've been logged in with priority rights this morning. Since I couldn't get off, I'm going to ask Vice President Pikal to step in for a while so I can take his word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u13	There. I'm taking over the meeting. Good afternoon, everyone. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u14	Madam, honourable Members, I actually wanted to respond in the morning both to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's speech and to Mrs Valachová's speech. It's really just short notes. Mrs Gajdůškovášková spoke here about socialization, the importance of the school in the process of socialization, and the fact that children who are raised only in the family will not get into preschool facilities during their education or education that they can or are at a disadvantage in the process of socialization because the socialization is taking place at school. [[14.40 hours]] I would like to say to the Member by your means, Mr President, that this is too narrow, simplified and, in essence, an incorrect concept of the socialization process. Of course, socialization takes place at school and the school is an important player in socialization, but by far not the only and far the most important, because the key institution where socialization takes place is the family. That's it, and that's it, and there's no other interpretation that any sociologist or social anthropologist can give you, and he can't give you. Whether we understand socialization in the narrower sense of learning how to manage my social role or in some broader sense that I am aware of my social responsibility, it is always primarily a family where the socialization process takes place. And the fact that other institutions are involved and that the school has a very important role to play, that is, of course, true, but it cannot be narrowed down to simply failing a sufficient socialization process unless the child participates in pre-school education. The second comment on Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's performance concerns the conservative model of the family that you mentioned here, and you said that the conservative idea about the family is also the source of why the nursery has been abolished in the Czech Republic and so on - I do not want to give you the exact wording that I did not write down. So I'm applying to a conservative family model, I'd even say that I'm not just applying to it, but my family is fulfilling that conservative idea in practice, or living in it, whatever we mean. However, the conservative model of the family does not mean that a woman cannot pursue her career. A conservative family model does not mean that a woman is excluded from professional activity. But if you mean that some women prefer to take longer care of their children before they do their jobs, then maybe they do, but then such women also have the right to do so and have the opportunity to take care of the child and prepare the child for school, life and other responsibilities if they want to, if the social situation of the family makes it possible, if the family has decided that they are ready to have lower social standards at the cost of being able to give to the child. I'm not saying it's the only model, I'm not even pushing everyone, it's the right model, I'm just defending the right of those who want to apply this model so they can have that right. And here, Madam President, you have been very fond of mothers who want to get to work as soon as possible, who need conditions for them to have a place to put their child, etc. And that's all right. I agree with that. But why shouldn't they have the freedom to choose mothers who don't want this and who, for various reasons, want to devote themselves to the child until he gets into school before he has to go to compulsory school? The only thing I'm here for, my colleagues, and why this proposal was made, is that even these mothers make even these people, so that those who confess - I don't know what we'll call it - conservative model family, or just want to be home longer with the baby, or they have a grandmother there, or something else, so that all these people also have that option. And you've taken away the opportunity by forcing completely absurdly those who don't need it, who can handle their child, do it through a socialization process, educate him, train him, prepare them for school, and you're preventing them from living such a model of life freely. Another point concerns Mrs Valachová's speech, which quoted research here, I think, by the Academy of Sciences, which showed that most citizens want - a vast majority, a large majority - that pre-school education is mandatory in that last year, and that most also want to be entitled to put children in kindergarten from two years of age. You said it was a fact. Well, Madam President, it is a fact, but it is not an argument. And it's not even an argument. You even came to the conclusion that, if so, it is an incentive for politicians to act accordingly. But I don't think it's an incentive for politicians to act accordingly. This is an incentive for some politicians to act accordingly. In my opinion, a politician cannot follow only what is the current interest of the majority, but a politician must and should defend the interests of a minority and defend the interests of his constituents and various groups of citizens. After all, we cannot follow a decision-making process in a state based solely on opinion polls and what the majority thinks and follow only the majority. That's not how politics can and can't work. I do not accept your beliefs, your arguments, your political position, but I believe that there is a need to defend and create space for minority alternative models of living in society, and especially those that do nothing to harm anyone and, on the contrary, to protect the interests of children and to have a functional family here. So I see no reason why, on the basis of the will of the majority, the freedoms of those who want to live differently and have a different idea of the education and education of their children should be restricted. I don't think that's really an argument. And yet to question - as a social scientist perhaps I can - the relevance of this sociological research, which I do not question in any way as such. Well, it's logical if 95 percent of children go to preschool facilities and go there voluntarily because parents put them there because they consider it reasonable, necessary, good, so that in the survey most say that they simply think that children should go to preschool facilities. Indeed, this is a fact, I agree with that, but it is no argument for us to act accordingly, and I certainly will not act accordingly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u15	Thank you. I have here with the factual remark of Mrs Gajdůškovášková. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u16	Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues, just really quickly. I guess we didn't get along a little bit in the socialization interpretation. In my performance, I was talking about establishing relationships in a group of kids, in a team of peers, and you just don't do that inside the family. There's no substitute for that. That's one thing. The second thing is that we don't deny anyone the right to take care of their children. No way. Any mommy can, if she wants to be home with her baby by the age of 15, let them, for all eternity, for we have freedom and freedom. But I was talking about those who want to maintain their profession, who need a second earnings in the family, etc. And we must also create conditions for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u17	Mr Staněk's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm just making a point about the whole debate that's here. It's really a little ideological. It is an ideology held by the right-wing parties and an ideology held by the Czech Social Democratic Party. However, I would perhaps liken this to the situation in 1918. There was also no vote for women at the time. Part of it was convinced that women should not vote; part of it was convinced that they could vote. However, the law needed to be adopted. And then it kind of developed. I think the situation is the same today. [[14.50 hours]] We know that we need to deal with a certain segment in a company that simply doesn't have the funds to secure a private crèche to secure a private crèche, and needs to provide it in another way. And we're looking for a way today after the nursery has been canceled. That it was irreversible, maybe that's true. On the other hand, on the other hand, I say again, we can't forget and we can't ignore that the money invested by the state will be the money invested in children. It's an investment that I think will pay off. So I don't see the problem with what we've been talking about for a long time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u19	Thank you. Mr Ventruba's point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u20	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you, as I see this situation, this problem that concerns us all. I really appreciate the debate that's been going on here. There were opinions protecting the family, protecting those who were supposed to teach it or take care of the children, and the children themselves. I would just like to say that I appreciate everyone who puts their enthusiasm into it, whether it is the former Minister or Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, or what our President, Professor Fiala, said. I'll tell you that everyone is right about something and that at this point when we're discussing this law, we should not stick to the ideas. It goes across my mind, this problem, the political spectrum. And I'm going to tell you this as a father of four children, and as a doctor who's been dealing with these cases before they're born, when we've been doing the indicator committee and we've determined by the ultrasound: this child is having or not, we've recommended it, then we've watched how it's going, and after the person who has four children. What I want to tell you is that I had the first two children with a doctor who had to go right away when we had a baby, she had to do the test because it was so that I had to go to the nursery with the oldest boy since I was a kid. My wife was in Znojmo, I was already in Brno at the clinic. The boy was in the nursery and in kindergarten until 6:30, on the fence alone, I went to get him. That was one--
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u21	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, the time of the deed is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u22	I'm so sorry. I'm gonna try again to finish this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u23	Now in the general debate, Mrs Matušovská is signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the issue of two-year-olds in kindergarten schools, not only as a mother of a two-and-a-half-year-old daughter, but also as a Member of the Pardubice Region, who spent the last week of parliamentary service by going around kindergarten in person. I visited and listened to the principal's comments and, of course, the teacher's. As regards two-year-olds, I consider this proposal justified. The same opinion is shared by people from the practice I have met, but also by those who shared their experience at the public hearing in the Senate. Teachers, child psychologists, special educators, and others who have performed here have clearly confirmed our arguments, which we have already said in the last parliamentary term. I remind you, very strongly, that we did not vote in favour of this amendment during the last parliamentary term as Communist Members. Two-year-olds need completely different care, as has already been mentioned. Other daily regime, other environments, other requirements for safety and hygiene regulations. He often wears diapers, as has already been said, cannot speak, and self - service habits are completely different from those of older children. It's about development psychology, and we're not gonna affect it by any decree or by any law. In kindergarten class, where there are also 28 children, these children are lost. Of course, it is also not suitable for preschoolers who need to prepare for entry to primary schools, especially with everything. I admire teachers in kindergarten. They must ensure high-quality preschool education while taking care of the smallest little ones, and even now, as a result of a nonsense called inclusion, they must devote individual care to children with various kinds and degrees of disability and fill in mountains of paper. And at this point, they're still looking for money for assistants and babysitters. It's time to admit what a huge mistake it was to disturb everything that worked. They were bothering the nursery. They've been mentioned a lot of times. Okay, we can call it something else, like mini-schools, micro-dozens, children's groups that would target children under the age of three. Unfortunately, there has also been a situation that although teachers in kindergartens are not at all enthusiastic about receiving two-year-olds, they are often forced to do so by existential reasons. As some of the directors admitted, they were faced with a decision to either dismiss the teacher or accept two-year-olds for funding. However, they all agree to reduce the number of two-year-olds per teacher. For all the reasons that I have said, I would therefore be inclined to support the proposal to abolish the obligation, but to maintain the possibility of two-year-olds receiving. On the other hand, I do not support the second two proposals contained in this amendment, i.e. the abolition of compulsory pre-school education from the fifth year of the child's age and the abolition of a free stay in the final year of the kindergarten. As regards compulsory pre-school education the year before entering primary school, I consider it necessary. And while I know that most preschoolers go to kindergarten anyway, there is a certain percentage of children who stay at home, and they need a kindergarten like salt. In addition to education, the kindergarten also plays a role in education and socialization and compensates for differences between children from different family backgrounds and thus helps those who lack a stimulating home environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u25	Thank you. Mr Svoboda will speak further in the general debate, Mr Luzar will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u26	Good day, Mr President, good day, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I am quite astonished to watch the whole discussion all day, because the dispute is actually completely fucked up. Here's a dispute about whether children are to go to kindergarten when they're two years old or whether they are to be compulsory in preschool education in the last year. But no one solves the problem of getting rid of the problems it's got in it. Only to my colleague Staňek, his comment on women's electoral rights. They really got him in 1919, but the law doesn't say he has to go to the elections. They just got the right to vote. And if they vote, that's what they're gonna decide. That's why your example is way out of line. I totally agree with everyone here who says that a two-year-old in kindergarten is a problem. Everyone here bragged about his relationship and his experience with children. I have a total of five kids, and I know something about it, because I still have some kids that are close to these devices or they're in them. And I know perfectly safely that when the nursery was a medical facility and a kindergarten school, it was a very good decision. Just because kindergarten isn't for raising two-year-olds. The kindergarten is terminological, because Czech is a small school. That means, she's just focused on teaching and teaching related education. Indeed, two - year - olds are still unable to live without diapers in many cases. It's specially given that we have these diapers permeable today, so they don't actually have the habit of dirt. Of course, kindergarten teachers are prepared, educated for something else. They're ready to teach at that little school, and they're not ready to take care of the kids. [[15.00 hours]] If you have children at home, you know that when siblings are two or three years apart, the moment they start communicating with each other is only when the younger one is three years old. Until then, they're throwing his toys away and nothing's working. And it doesn't work in that kindergarten anyway. Of course it's all true. A two-year-old doesn't belong in a school facility, doesn't belong in a kindergarten. That's what we're saying here, and someone's saying it's possible, someone's saying it's impossible, and no one's looking for a solution. I say the solution is very simple. Let's just say that the two-year-old is entitled to go to the facility because we know that a lot of women - or parents - sometimes even fathers who stay home with the child who have to go back to work for economic reasons. This solution, for example, is done by large hospitals, which actually set up a nursery, because they have a huge group of young girls, young women who have given birth and return to work, and of course it's interesting to them when there are nurserys in the hospital area where they put the two-year-old child, and maybe they'll pick it up by noon, because they'll be working part-time. Why don't we look for a solution in how to do it right and stop arguing that it is, or it isn't good to have a two-year-old in kindergarten? Let's say that we support the children's groups, that we will support the creation of nursery like Prague 2 has, like some hospitals have, like some races, and there we will give the two-year-olds, where they will be taken care of by foster parents or women who will have the appropriate education for it, and it will all work out. It just doesn't belong in school. And the other problem, the problem of five-year-olds who are supposed to go to school. Of course, I know very well that some children at the age of five, especially when they need October as mine, are not completely mature and that the extra one year in kindergarten is extremely, extremely important. And I know that, and I decided to leave the baby there. If I'm a parent who wants to raise a child alone, why am I interfering? Why don't we make a law that says that a child can go to that year's preparation under the conditions under which they go to school? That's where we hide the economics file. And whoever doesn't want to go. Of course, today we have parents who educate their children instead of going to school. We got it, and it's working. And we're getting higher and higher, we're already in primary school, we're going to have high school. Why don't we do it with kindergarten? Why don't we make a law that says "yes, the last year of kindergarten is a year of preparation for school, and that's why it has a modified way of education in this form"? Otherwise, these kids are educated in that kindergarten, the senior year. That's why it's meaningful. And whoever didn't put them there didn't just put them there. It's his decision. In my opinion, the children will lose to some degree, but some will not. Some just can't deal with the kindergarten. We all know that. Who has children knows that one child likes to go to kindergarten, the other one with resistance and the third one with violence - what else do you call it? And if we solve this, we're gonna do our best, and we don't have to argue about whether it's right or wrong. We'll make room for both sides of the coin to be usable. Even those who wish that the child would not go there, even those who wish that the child would go there. It's very simple. And this whole day is actually pointless from this point of view if we were to say, yes, we agree that we have to create a facility for two-year-olds. Yes, we agree that the year of preschool preparation in kindergarten is correct. Whether I choose it as a citizen or not is my personal problem. The difference between our concept and that of the Minister is that she wants to guide us all and conduct us all. Order us to do what we're supposed to do. Even though I had children in kindergarten, even though I had children in nursery, I am fundamentally opposed to such a decision, and I, as a citizen of Svoboda, want to be able to decide at any time: I will put my child in nursery because I must, because otherwise I will not have bread for him. Or I won't put my child in preschool education because I want to teach him myself because I'm better than all those kindergarten teachers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u27	Thank you. Mr Adamec will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u28	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I am listening to the debate that is going on here, and I say in advance that I am in favour of the child being at home with his mother as long as possible. I remember our famous pediatrician, Professor Matějíček, who said so. Perhaps someone else has seen him when he said this wisdom at a very old age. And I think he was right. As far as two-year-olds are concerned, I must say that our city, which has been run by the right-wing coalition since 1990, has remained a manger. There was one nursery left because at the time we felt that capacity for 30 thousand cities would be enough and that it would be the moms who are, I would say, in some social problem, singles and so on. And what was my surprise when I found out that it wasn't at all that part of such children were there, but a large part of the children were from mothers who were doctors, managers and so on. I really think a two-year-old doesn't belong in kindergarten. If she has to, she should be in the nursery. I'm still willing to hear that these are the so-called almost three-year-olds who are self-sufficient, and then they can be done. Plus, if we were to talk about this years ago, when the population curve was in the manger upstairs, that's when we all had trouble placing three-year-olds, because there were a lot of them. Now the population curve is down, I just can't shake the feeling that we want to fill those devices at all costs. And when I heard here that kindergarten is in front of a situation that she would fire a teacher or have to take two-year-olds, I would have chosen the first option. A two-year-old doesn't belong in kindergarten. And if you look at the fifth year, it's that fifth year is mandatory, it's free. It's not free because nothing in the world is free. [[Attention on time.]] I'll turn myself in, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u29	Mr Luzar will now speak in the general debate, followed by Mr Ventruba. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I dare say that this problem goes completely beyond my expertise and I do not have as much experience as all my previous speakers here. Still, I dare say I'm glad to admit the mistake is considered not cowardice, but for granted. I've been through a time of market comsomolators who have fought that private business will take care of everything. This is the result of the kindergartens and nursery that were, because it was clearly stamped that if the employer wants the mother to get into work with a child who does not yet meet the conditions of the preschool facility, he will take care of it. After all, he'll build a preschool facility, build a nursery to enable his mother to work economically. We have moved on for some time, and we have found that this device is needed, but it works on the so-called non-interest principle. It just works. If the kindergarten has free capacity, it also accepts children below three years of age. But it's up to whoever's responsible for that kindergarten. In other words, the director or, where appropriate, the director of this school institution. As a Member of the Moravian-Silesian Region, I had the opportunity to visit the director at the invitation - I stress the man, the head of kindergarten, which is interesting even in the context that the feminisation of education has progressed at a huge pace, yet the principal of kindergarten exists - to hear the views of his and his colleagues involved in the upbringing. And there were arguments. I must say Valachová your means, Mr President, that neither one has been in favour of the proposal for a compulsory option for two-year-olds to put in pre-school facilities. Not because they haven't had children in kindergarten since they were two years old, but because if they were to do it compulsory, that means who's coming, they should place it, they'll come across capacity options. That was one of the reasons. [[15.10 hours]] And I made a note that it's mostly economic for them. Because they have their founder and he doesn't have the means to realize another extension, further expansion of kindergarten. And in order to meet the need, it does so at the expense of the capacity of a kindergarten classic. They don't really have a big problem with it, but I'm pointing out that this is going to be a problem. Because the founder is not only a large city, but also a small village. And the problem is quite obvious. I will leave out the arguments of the pedagogical reasons that have already been raised here by the previous speakers, who are certainly more likely to open this topic. I'll leave out the psychological reasons they explained to me. But they've also been heard here, and I could only sign for them. But as a basic problem for me from the kindergarten visit, they are willing to receive children from two years old, but there must be conditions. The proposal that was or is ready, and it is a request for its amendment, but it does not create these conditions. He's just promising them. And that's the problem. If the conditions were first and then came up with this realization, this discussion would probably be irrelevant and would not be relevant. If municipalities were to receive funds from the Ministry of Education to build nursery or special classes at kindergartens - because they also need special technical conditions to build them - if they were to receive funds for wages and salaries, that would probably not be the problem. But since it is so that we introduce claim first, and then we may be able to solve the economic side of things, this is where the problem arises. And, of course, it raises concern. And the fear is obvious. I have to say that I was interested in an argument, which also led me to stand here by this microphone and I am speaking to you that the former minister who did not succeed in this flagship - outside the school inclusions - wanted to support the general opinion of the citizens by this flagship that the two-year-olds simply belong in preschool facilities. The argument they gave me is a survey, an amateur survey that the former secretary did on her Facebook page when she asked two questions. She asked whether placing two-year-olds in kindergarten schools in February 2018: yes - it helps parents and doesn't hurt children - parents are supposed to take care of children and it is a crime on children. These are two questions whose purpose we can doubt, yet the result is quite noticeable. Paradoxically, though, she supported the two questions with photographs of supporters and opponents, yet in this amateur survey, which contained almost 19,000 responses in six days, which is quite a large and statistically very significant number - and considering that it was on Facebook, when those social networks are created by a certain principle, or friends of this policy and politics - the result was for yes, that it is good to have those two-year-olds in those kindergartens, only 15 percent and not 85 percent. This is such an expression of civil opinion that I think that even the plaintiff of the original proposal and now the defender of this proposal should perhaps lead to the fact that citizens simply see it differently. And I'm going back to my introduction. I don't think it's cowardice to admit we were wrong. I just thought it would work. But since I am no longer able to influence it, I see that the problem is here and that the professional public has not accepted it either. The lay public who should be using it doesn't want that either. And I just got ahead of the time. Don't worry about it. Let's just say that there's an amendment, let's put it into second reading, let's talk about which of the three proposals we're going to support here and which one we're not. But let's just try to figure this out, because citizens - and here I can afford to say I too, who already has children out there - feel this as a problem. Because it arouses emotions, and unnecessary emotions, on things that, in my opinion, are a majority consensus. It's just that two-year-olds don't belong in preschool facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u31	The following are factual remarks in the order of Mr Adamec and Mr Svoboda and Mrs Valachová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u32	Mr President, Minister, colleagues, I will just finish what I started in my remark. But my colleague Luzar here reminded me that making mistakes is human, forgiving is divine. So people make mistakes, God forgives. I was gonna say the fifth grade isn't free. If anyone says it's free, they don't know what they're talking about. The fifth year will be paid by the parents of the juniors. That's just the way it is, and that's what I've been pointing out when it was being introduced. But there's another thing I'd like to know. There are also delays in the entry of children into the first year of primary schools, and I wonder if there are statistics, how the number of delays increased during the period when the fifth compulsory free year of kindergarten was introduced. And if you look at it, let's not say today we have a nine-year mandatory schooling. We have ten years' mandatory attendance. And in this case, even 11 years of mandatory attendance. So I have to say, you have to say the whole thing. The state simply instructs parents to go to school from the de facto fifth year of kindergarten to the ninth grade of primary school. That's right. I'm going to add a delay - and I have a serious suspicion that the number of delays then increased significantly, because it was convenient for a number of parents to put children in kindergarten, and we know how they sometimes look. So resisting your parents doesn't pay much in those schools these days. I'm kind of wondering what happened. I don't want to push this around, but it needs to be said that we have a ten-year mandatory attendance, even sometimes an 11-year-old. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u33	Thank you. Mr Svoboda's point of fact follows. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u34	Thank you. I would speak to my colleague Valachová and my colleague Luzar through you. In any case, a Facebook survey cannot be used as an indication of what the population's opinion is. The survey quoted here by my colleague Valachová, who says that 95 percent of people want something for her in her political orientation, means that this will order the remaining 5 percent. For me, in my political orientation, this means that I will find a way or an option that will allow the 5 percent to fulfill their wishes. That means finding a form to do it. But that's the crucial difference between us. One orders, the other wants to find a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u35	Thank you. Mrs Valachová and her factual point. The honourable Member withdraws the factual point, so we are returning to the minutes of the general debate. Mr Ventruba is next, Mr Kopeček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u36	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking this opportunity to make it more than two minutes, because I would like to finish the idea that I have begun. Personally, if I respond to my previous speaker, Mr. Svoboda, I don't think this problem should be political. The way I see it, it's all our business. I really liked the contributions from both sides and center, because they're our kids. I will just finish what I wanted to tell you, and I will answer Mrs Gajdůškovášková when she spoke of the traditional family, which, in my opinion, I must say, as I think, Professor Fiala said. [[15.20 hours]] I'm, I'm gonna say it on my life, I had my first wife, I've already mentioned it, doctor, quickly do the first test, boy in the nursery, we were alone, we made it. The other two children - I have two boys, I have a boy and a girl from my second marriage, my first mistress tragically died. The second marriage gave me a boy and a girl who grew up in the so-called. traditional family, i.e. The high school girl's wife was home with the kids until they went to school. She was fully devoted to them. So I just want to tell you that both of these models are possible, they're both good, everyone has their advantage and disadvantage, and I don't think it's a good one to say that's a great one, and I'm going to reject that. [[second]] It's not like that. As far as the child is concerned, I'm going back to what the bill is. You know, we said the general thing. I think it's said here, I don't want to repeat why she's supposed to be a kid, she's not supposed to be in preschool. But I'll say one thing in my own experience. My mother put me in kindergarten in Brno when I was two. I don't know, maybe I remember, or my mother told me. I remember crying all day, so I was hanging on the fence, she had to pull me down. Then she gave me three years old, then I got over it, we had a nice bunch. And now for socialization, through the President, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. It's not just a school facility that socializes the baby. There are other things. There are sports clubs. A lot of kids go to sports when they go to kindergarten. We've had it before, it's not like that now, we've had a party on the streets. It's not just school or kindergarten. So that's it. But now I don't want to drag it out. I just want to say that I think a child is mandatory in three years - nonsense! Nonsense. I appeal to the Professor through Mr Adámková, who said it beautifully. In three years it's not a problem school teaching, it's a medical thing, even if they have diapers, they don't have diapers, I won't repeat it. It's just about the kids, even the ones in charge, etc. So I'm clearly against this. Whether it's voluntary or not, it wasn't as bad as it was. I'm saying, they didn't have to cancel, but in some form, it has to be replaced, but not the kindergarten regulations. And as for the year before they go to school, I don't know how to vote here, there's no such match. I think the first one will clearly go through, it's nonsense, but here I'd also put in a good word for the families to have freedom, every kid is different, some kid needs it, some kid doesn't need it, others don't need it, so they can pick it, and maybe it's free. So I support Mr Mgr's proposal. Klaus wants us to put it in the next reading so we can talk about it so we can talk about it across the political spectrum, not that we're all going to vote this way... or it's not about our kids. And that's how I feel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u37	Thank you. Mr Skopeček is another member of the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u38	Thank you very much for the floor and a nice afternoon. I won't want to delay it, but let me tell you how I feel about it. I also think that two-year-olds do not belong in kindergartens, although I cannot say this from personal experience yet, but I draw from the overwhelming majority of the opinions of child psychologists who do not recommend it. However, I understand that there may be situations where a family is forced to return to work earlier. But then, in my opinion, an institution other than a kindergarten dedicated to preschool education must be used, but it should be an institution similar to a nursery. I'm like a little kid because my mom had to go back to work when I was two years old, and she had no other choice, and I was forced to go to daycare. I don't really remember it, I didn't feel perfect there, but I remember one thing. The ladies who took care of us there had a nurse's uniform, and I remember to this day that it was a different facility than we know today in the form of kindergarten, so it really was a medical facility, that is, a nursery. [[It's busy in the hall.]] Here, in connection with the debate on the extent to which parents can quickly return to work after parents, I would mention one solution that we can help and which, in my opinion, has not been mentioned here today. They're short-time jobs. When we look at the use of short-term jobs and compare their usability or popularity in the Czech Republic with abroad, we find that short-term jobs abroad are used to a much greater extent than they are in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u39	Excuse me, I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I ask the Members of Parliament to be more calm in the Chamber so that we can finish the general debate under the same conditions as we have started it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u40	Thank you very much. I would therefore be in favour if we were concerned about how quickly to get Mommy back to work, if necessary, to deal with the short-term jobs that will enable Mommy to take care of a two-year-old at home and at the same time allow her not to lose her qualifications and to lose contact with her work so far, and this can lead to an economically better situation for the family. When the Labour Code is discussed, I look forward to supporting the left-hand side of the political spectrum, which will certainly encourage liberalisation and greater use of short-term jobs. I would also like to ask colleagues to support the amendment, which is on the table, to support its shift to further reading, because even from experience, even the annual, regional councillor for education and sport in the Central Bohemia Region, I assure you that school directors and mayors cannot imagine this in reality. Former Minister Valachová mentioned here surveys that the citizens of the Czech Republic want this thing to be made possible. I would advise her to do a survey among the mayors of the municipalities that preschools set up, to do a survey between the principals of kindergartens or the principals of kindergartens, to which this obligation will be given, to do a survey among the parents of older children who are in kindergarten today. Because I assure you that at the moment that the existing parents of children over three years old will know that two-year-olds are coming to that kindergarten, and the teacher will have to dominatingly take care of the younger ones and stop caring for their children, I assure her that the survey will turn out completely differently. So please, let's keep our heads cool, keep our rationality, and I'm begging you to send the novel to the next reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u41	Thank you. Mr Veselý will respond with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, he will only briefly respond to his previous speaker, through you, Mr President. I have to give him a deep compliment. I also went to daycare, but I don't remember any of it. I don't know if it was psychologically possible, but I don't think a guy who goes to daycare at the age of two really remembers anything about this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u43	Thank you. There are two more factual points or two more precisely. Gentlemen of the Ventruba, Mr Skopeček. I ask Mr Ventruba for his factual comment. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u44	I will only respond to my colleague through the President. That's exactly what I said. I know that a person in human life is interesting that... I had patients and children who had such fragments even when they were in a stroller. But you never know if it's that the kid remembers or the parent or someone told them. I'll say it from mine. It wasn't a nursery, it was a kindergarten in Brno in Palacka, and I can see it, that moment when I was on the fence and I was crying. So just like that. Then maybe one can't remember, but only to be explained. I had other children who had such flashes that they remembered from a time when I didn't think they had to remember. And if we were talking about Moody, and if we were talking about, if the kids remember anything from intrauterine life, that would be interesting, but that doesn't belong here right now. So that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u45	Mr Skopeček, his point of order. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u46	I'm responding. Well, I don't remember any big details, but for me, it was such a big trauma from my mom to go to the nursery that I actually remember those blue jumpers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u47	Mrs Majerová's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u48	I really won't be stalling anymore. It's for fun. So I specifically remember squirming down the stairs to the nursery, and she didn't want my mom to shove me in. And I remember the name of a particular classmate who bit me there. I'll tell you the name later if you're interested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u49	I wanted to end the general debate, but I will not do so because Mr Kalousek has made a point of fact. [[Noise in the hall.]] I would like to ask the Members of Parliament to remain calm so that Mr Kalousek, too, can make his point of order in the appropriate conditions. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a really serious debate because it's about our educational system, so I want to promise you that I'm not gonna confide in you with my childhood psychics because I don't think they belong here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u51	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting for the general debate, please? It's not like that. I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. The promoter is interested. I ask Mr Klaus for his final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. We've closed the martyrium of contributions. Thank you all for a very substantive debate, well-behaved. It was a bit long, but no one can blame because everyone has kindergarten in their constituency, everyone perceives that this is a very strong problem, and that is why the debate was so long. I'm just going to say two things about what was said here by the former Minister of Education. You know, what citizens think isn't up to opinion polls, and neither does Facebook, it's up to the election. Just as what most Members here think will be shown by the vote, we don't have to say that from the counter either. This debate has shown - and I ask you to let this amendment into second reading - that the current law is wrong. And we're too legislative. The current law is wrong and needs change. Even Mr Staněk, who proposed rejection, confirmed it and justified it only by suggesting his own novel, which will be better than this one, but it is clear that the law needs change. That's why I'm asking you to let it go to second reading. It will show how much support the part of the compulsory kindergarten has, we will talk about funding there, whether the three-year-olds finance it, four-year-olds or who, and the result will certainly be a fair compromise, especially if it gives such interest to a large majority of Members. So let it go to second reading and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u53	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word. That's right. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u54	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the extensive debate that was relevant. Everything has been said during the debate, perhaps several times. It may not be just the unscathed children that were mentioned, but they may be mentioned in other readings. During the debate, there was a proposal for rejection from Mr Staněk from the ČSSD workshop. I'm gonna ask you to let me in for another reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u55	Yes, thank you. As we have heard, there was a motion during the debate to reject the proposal tabled by Mr Staněk. We will now come to terms with this proposal by voting. First of all, I will call on Members who are not yet in the Chamber, at the same time I have taken note of the motion to unsubscribe, so I will unsubscribe you all. Please log in with your ID cards again. Before the number of people in the O.R. settles, I'll introduce you to an apology. Mrs Maxová apologizes for today's meeting from 18:00 to the end of the day for reasons of work. We will now proceed to the vote on the motion to reject the proposal, as Mr Staněk has put it. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 32, 167 Members signed in, for 7, against 139. The motion has been rejected and we will continue to discuss it. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a proposal to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. I'm asking if anyone else has a motion on the commandment of the committee as a committee of guarantee. I don't see a proposal like that. We will therefore vote on the proposal tabled. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 33, 167 Members registered, for 167, against no one. The proposal was therefore adopted and this means that the proposal was ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I'm asking if anyone has such a suggestion. Yes, Mrs Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u56	Mr President, my dear colleagues, I propose for reasons which may not seem obvious at first sight, but they are already at second glance, because there are some things that I think a constitutional committee should consider, even though we have a lot to consider, so I suggest that the next committee to which this will pass should be a constitutional committee. [[noise especially from the right side of the hall.]] That's where the context really is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u57	Mrs Valachová will take the vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u58	Mr President, fellow Members, I do not question the vote, I just want to say that I voted in favour of the rejection, logically, because we gave the proposal, but I did not. I'm just saying this for the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u59	Yes, thank you. I repeat that Mrs Válková's proposal has been made here to order this proposal to be discussed by the constitutionally legal committee. Mr Luzar comes with another proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also propose a social committee. [[A note off the microphone.]] Medical, of course, but two and three years... It's between health care, because two years should take care of health care, social, school, then three years... Social and health, okay, I'm specifying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u61	Thank you. So I repeat the motion, because I didn't hear it well myself, and I suppose not everyone heard it. You proposed that this proposal be submitted to the Social Committee and that it be submitted to the Health Committee. Yes, I understand. Is there any other proposal on the commandment to the committees? If not, we will deal with individual proposals by voting. First, we will vote on the commandment to the constitutionally legal committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 34, 167 Members registered, for 70, against 46. The motion was denied. [[15.40 hours]] Next, we will vote on the commandment of the Social Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 35, registered by 168 Members, for 54, against 45. The motion was denied. The last vote will be on the proposal that we order this proposal to the Health Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 36, registered by 168 Members, for 25, against 73. The motion was also rejected. I note that the proposal has not been ordered to discuss any further committee. At the same time, I conclude the first reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u62	Thank you for making this easy for me for the first time. It was beautiful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-004-008.u63	Initiating point
