ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-003-003.u1	3. Government bill on the conditions of use of genetic resources according to the Nagoya Protocol / House print 15/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for Environment Richard Brabec will be mentioned. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-003-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just read that it's actually a sports pitch, that there's a way to practice here. [[Looking down at the step]] But I'll try without him, even if it does me good. I would just like to point out that the Government is submitting to Parliament a draft law on the conditions for the use of genetic resources according to the so-called 'genetic resources'. The Nagoya Protocol. This is actually the second presentation of this bill to the Chamber of Deputies, because the identical proposal has already been discussed in the previous parliamentary term as the Parliamentary Press 847. Unfortunately, the process of its discussion could not be completed and was only discussed in May last year by the Guarantee Committee on the Environment. Let me just briefly repeat the reasons for the submission. The draft law on the conditions for the use of genetic resources under the Nagoya Protocol has been developed to ensure the adaptation of the legal order of the Czech Republic to the directly applicable legislation of the European Union following international rules on access to and use of genetic resources. In particular, it is Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The draft law specifies the way in which domestic holders of genetic resources collections and users of genetic resources are to fulfil their obligations in connection with the inclusion of the collection in the European Union register, respectively. With the use of genetic resources, it imposes regulations and lays down the competence of the Ministry of the Environment and the Czech Environmental Inspection in respect of compliance with the conditions for the use of genetic resources, access to them and sharing the benefits of their use, as well as establishing a system of measures to remedy the shortcomings identified in the control of the use of genetic resources as well as penalties for breach of the obligations associated with such use. The aim of the bill is to regulate the use and access of genetic resources as a whole and to contribute to the protection and conservation of genetic resources so called. in situ, i.e. at the place of their natural occurrence and their use in a sustainable manner, and the benefits that their users derive from the use of genetic resources are to be shared fairly and equally with local communities which play a key role in the protection and use of genetic resources and biodiversity. Since the question has actually come up when discussing what such genetic resources are, and it always raises such a mystery as to whether it is not by chance some gene manipulation, I would just like to say that it is quite clear, because we know that then there are questions about what biomass is, and it is harder to answer that genetic resources represent any genetic material of plant, animal, microbial or other origin, which contains functional units of inheritance and which has real or potential value for some future use. For example, it may be a plant or part of it, from which it is possible to extract a substance that will subsequently be used for research and development, typically e.g. a new cosmetic product or genetic source may also be an individual animal used in breeding programmes. However, fungi, algae, and others can also be a genetic source. And the collection is then a collection of collected samples of genetic resources and related information and it can be represented by genebans, collections can have research institutes, nature museums, but also private laboratories or collections, possibly botanical or zoological gardens. As has already been said here, although I know that there will probably be a protest against this proposal due to the fact that it is a direct application, virtually. directly adapting the nature of the proposal, and also that the European Commission is currently considering very much that so-called. The EU Pilot, which is currently in the process, will move to the stage of the proceedings, so I wanted to ask for a hearing, respectively. expressing consent at first reading in accordance with Section 90. If this proposal had not been adopted, then I would have liked to put forward a proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions by 30 days, i.e. 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-003-003.u3	Thank you, Minister. I will now read Mr Lubomír Volný's apology from 23rd from 15.30 to 24th throughout the day for reasons of work. Now, the rapporteur should take the floor originally intended for first reading, Mrs Dana Balcarová, but she is duly excused for health reasons. The alternate rapporteur, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka, may take up her role as an apology rapporteur, but this is the first reading, and we must deal with the change in the rapporteur's person by voting. I therefore begin the vote and ask who is the rapporteur for first reading and for Mr Bohuslav Sobotka to be rapporteur. Who's against it? This is vote number 36. 177 Members are registered, for 135, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I will ask the rapporteur to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-003-003.u4	Thank you. Mr President, serious government, honourable Members, I can very briefly follow up on what the representative of the petitioner has already said. The proposed legislation provides for adaptation of the legal order of the Czech Republic to the directly applicable regulations of the European Union. The proposal shall lay down the powers of the competent authorities responsible for the implementation of these Regulations and shall also lay down rules for checking compliance with the obligations imposed by those Regulations. It is therefore a regulation of the use of genetic resources and traditional knowledge related to them, including the sharing of benefits from their use. As has already been said here and is therefore part of this press, the Government presented this proposal to the House on 30 November last year. It was proposed that the House should give its consent at first reading pursuant to § 90 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-003-003.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate to which I am registering two applications at the moment. First up is Mr Vácha, to whom I hereby give the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-003-003.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, Minister. In advance, I would like to raise the veto on behalf of three clubs, TOP 09, ODS and Pirates, against the proceedings under Section 90 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). I would sum up a few things, several reasons, arguments that I have against the proceedings under Section 90. Before I begin - I find the preparation or the explanatory report of the law a little bit redundant because, for example, already in the first sentence, where it is said that the issue of the use of genetic resources under the rule of law is not regulated at present, so it is not true because we have Act 148 on conservation and use of plant genetic resources. So I know these may be useless things, but let's move on to the goal of the law. The aim of the law is to set rules for the inclusion - and now I will use the word "some" on purpose - of genetic material collections in the European register. But it does not say who and what it involves. This is not even said in the European Parliament's regulation 511. What kind of collections they'll be subject to, what kind of collection they won't. Whether or not the collection will be included in that register and not be included. And that's what volunteering has to do with it. The explanatory memorandum says, and I will now quote: The obligations arising from the decisions of the public or private collection of genetic resources on accession to the voluntary registration measure in the register of collections administered by the Commission, etc. etc. That means you come up with a law that allows the collection owners to volunteer for a collection in a European registry. But volunteering is against the spirit of the Nagoya Protocol, because the spirit of the nagojský Protocol is essentially to prevent the theft of genetic information from developing countries. [[15.00 hours]] So I'm wondering if really what's written in the explanatory note, that is. the volunteering, it's about the law. And then, what is the relation of volunteering to such a significant penalty under Section 9, when the penalty is from 20 to 50,000? That would mean that someone voluntarily enters the collection register and then somehow doesn't follow the rules and gets a penalty of CZK 20 or CZK 50,000. That seems a little counterproductive to me. If this volunteer is there, I would imagine - and if you would confirm it - I would imagine at second reading that I would perhaps come up with an amendment where, in my opinion, the penalty would be sufficient, first the proposal and then the removal of the collection from the register. 'Cause I'm assuming someone's accessing the collection register to get some advantage. And if the advantage is big enough, then some 20, 50,000 won't hurt him, and it'll hurt him to get him off the register. Then there's another thing, and that's a retrospective of the law. The next sentence - I quote from the explanatory memorandum - is: The last condition for these genetic resources and traditional knowledge related to genetic resources to be covered by the proposed law is that these genetic resources must be obtained only after the entry into force of the Nagoya Protocol in that State, in the case of the European Union, in the case of a Member State of the European Union. So I'm asking about volunteering and the retrospect of the law. Because most of the collections... another question is which collections institutions or private collectors should report to the collections, either voluntarily or compulsory. Because, as you said, genetic material according to this regulation 511, genetic material is - correctly quoted - any material of plant, animal, microbial or other origin containing a functional unit of inheritance. They're all Herbarians! If you have a herbalist at home and there is an obligation to register these collections and that obligation will also be for private subjects, you will have to register your herbalist. Gentlemen, if you have a butterfly collection at home and you don't register it, you'd better not bring a Miss of the Ministry of Environment home because you're going to have a problem. But that would apply to all zoos, but that would be, my fellow colleagues, probably colleagues, that would also concern hunters, because they have collections of antlers or trophies. And if it's a functional unit of heredity, then today when they dig up Přemyslovec in your castle, DNA from your teeth, the DNA is functional. The inheritance unit is operational there. That's where you'll find the functional genes. That's how the relative of the excavated remains is determined. That means it's gonna be about everything. If it were mandatory. So I'm hoping that the sentence on volunteering in the explanatory memorandum is valid. I don't know if it should be mentioned in any way in the law, I don't understand it, it should in some way treat your legislation. So, in general, I have to say that what is a pity that no research institutions, public research institutions, universities, museums, etc. have been approached, which would potentially affect this law. And that's why we're proposing the veto, so there's time to discuss the bill. Then maybe I wouldn't be leaning towards a 30-day shortening so that the scientific institutions involved might have some way of expressing themselves. If there is no volunteering, then, of course, the impact will have a great administrative and financial burden on the research institutions and museums. So I hope that volunteering is there, that it's not just a sentence that somehow got into the explanatory report. I know we probably had to ratify it under some pressure, but maybe the United States hasn't ratified it, they haven't applied to the Nagoya Protocol, so only the ratification is a little bit controversial. So I'd like to ask you, I know you won't be able to answer all the questions right now if you didn't prepare those questions for the committee. I am thinking of proposing a change of the Guarantee Committee to the Committee on Science, Education, Youth, Culture and Sports, because really the Nagoya Protocol or this law does not concern environmental protection, but it is science and research. Because the scientific institutions will be involved. So if you prepare questions, you probably won't answer them now, that is. The most important thing is volunteering and retrospective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-003-003.u7	Thank you. Now with a proper application for the debate, Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-003-003.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me just remind you that we have already discussed this law in the last parliamentary term, as the Minister and the rapporteur both mentioned, and we were already quite embarrassed at the time. The negotiations actually started in 2016, took place in 2017. The first reading took place, the Act dealt with the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee and then suspended the hearing so that its wording could be harmonised with the Act on Liability for and Procedure for Infractions. I mean, Law No. 250/2016 Coll., approved in July 2016, which became effective on 1 July 2017. So harmonisation has been done. The Committee on the Environment closed the meeting on 3 May 2017 and recommended the House to approve the draft law. There was enough time to present this law to the second and third readings during the last House, the previous government coalition, when the Members who were interested in this problem had good information about this law. It didn't happen. [[15.10 hours]] Doubts that I personally had with the law, me. they were based on the fact that his text, which is presented, is, I must say, quite very incomprehensible. There is talk of things that the Minister has already described better in his speech today. There wasn't much to talk about back then. It was taken for granted that the law that falls on us, like other laws from the European Union, and which is even accompanied by that threat of infringement... By the way, in the explanatory memorandum itself, the impact of possible inflation of 54 million is calculated. CZK as a one-time fine and 270 thousand. Kroner daily, if our law had not been adopted in time, so it is indeed a very strong threat and one quite understands why it is such a pressure to accept it. But if the reader did not have a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 511, where some concepts are defined at least a little bit, he would actually read the text of our law as a kind of charade or secret, where he would not know much about many terms. The Minister of Definition recalled - genetic material, genetic resources. He mentioned the concept of collection. However, he did not name something that is quite very interesting - the concept of traditional knowledge related to genetic resources, which is traditional knowledge owned by indigenous or local communities that are relevant for the use of genetic resources. So what we're talking about here is something that's changing significantly over time. Knowledge of the local communities of people in the given territory where resources occur becomes more and more public as the communities become subject to the examination of various anthropological or other expeditions, etc., so all of this is happening sort of online. So that's something I really think is a problem. The minister and especially the previous speaker Professor Vácha mentioned some examples of what it might be. It could really be biological or natural science collections that somebody has in their home or somewhere else, it's just unclear. Different breeding units may be such a genetic collection. For example, such a gene source of livestock are breeds that have long been adapted to the territory of the Czech Republic, such as breeds of cattle, pigs, sheep breeds, etc., fish, nutria breeds, so these are really very special and very interesting things. I'm just gonna remind you of one more thing. Such a large collection that exists is called. a global seed bank that exists on Spitsbergen. It is a collection that contains 716 523 seed samples of various plants belonging to 4,205 species. That was 2010. It's a repository that's located at a certain altitude, in a certain temperature environment. It's a repository that, according to the enthusiasts who are on the mountain, should survive an apocalypse that God forbid could meet our planet. And then, after the apocalypse, they could go to Spicberka and start a new agriculture from this very collection, from that global seed storage. It is rather unpleasant that global warming has also been reflected in the Spitzbergs, and this collection has been partially flooded with water, although not the seed storage itself, but there may not even be an apocalypse to threaten the seed source itself. I confess that my colleague Vácha and I shared the blocking of the proceedings pursuant to Section 90. I think it's pointless to say. I also noticed the contradiction between noncommittalism, the possibility of applying to the Ministry with my collection, and then subsequent fines for offences that are not so hard to commit. Unfortunately, they are mainly administrative offences - the owner of the collection forgets to report something and commits an offence for which he can be affected by the sum of up to 20, or even. up to 50 thousand. Crowns. It's gonna cost something next to the infringement ticket. An increased administrative burden should mean the establishment of roughly three jobs at the Czech Environment Inspection and Ministry, which is about 2 million. Crowns. Subjects that will then be from the public sphere would cost 45 thousand to manage the registry membership for their collection. CZK per year, or business entities having a collection also incorporated into the register would have to spend 75 thousand. A year's worth of crowns. So I'm sure Section 90 needs to be vetoed, which is what happened. The question was whether we would consider bringing back the law for discussion. I don't think anything would help here. The author might enrich the law more with the normal language next to the meta-language written by the law, but it wouldn't mean anything. So I join in releasing the law into second reading, or trying to do some things, especially the discrepancy between noncommittality and fines, to clarify, or the word noncommittal in some way, into those opening paragraphs of the law, and thus the burden of infringement, which once again runs on us by the European Union, is to throw it away. So, until the second reading, yes, and then at second reading, try to work on some improvements to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-003-003.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So I understand you've only been thinking about it, but you're not suggesting that the plaintiff be returned to work. Just so I don't cheat, President Michálek applied at the time of the veto, so I assume he doesn't want to speak on this matter alone. Prime Minister Michálek, was this about the veto at the time? [[Member Michálek agrees.]] Thank you. Mr Kubíček is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-003-003.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to propose a reduction in the deadline for committee discussions from 60 days to 30 days, i.e. 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-003-003.u11	Thank you. Let me read the apology. Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes today from 16.15 and from tomorrow's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on a foreign trip. And a moment ago, Mr Jan Čižinský came to apologize to me from 16.15 for working reasons until the end of today's day. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. The Minister would like to speak in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-003-003.u12	Thank you for the questions. I'm a little surprised, but now Professor Vácha explained to me that they didn't actually sound on the committee in the last House in a very similar cast, but now I found out the reason that some things may have been realized afterwards. I'm not able to answer all the way up here right now. So I'm sure I'm in favour of it going to committees. However, from the information I have, of course, I can confirm that registration is not mandatory. She's really volunteering. In case the registration doesn't happen, because when the registration happens, then whoever registers must comply with the terms. But if he doesn't want to register, he doesn't have to and won't be sanctioned at the time. But I'm sure I'm in favour of the debate continuing with the committees, of course, in the guarantee committee, or in another, if you agree to do so. However, I would still support the proposal to shorten the deadline to 30 days. I think it will be explained within this deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-003-003.u13	Thank you, Minister. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? The minister basically had it now. The rapporteur is not interested. Since the objections have been raised pursuant to Article 90 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that: 3, we will continue the standard discussion of the first reading of the law. I note that neither the motion for a refund nor the motion for a rejection has been made in the debate. First, then, we will deal with the commandments of the committees. First, we'll decide on the Guarantee Committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal for a guarantee committee. If that's not the case, I'll call my colleagues from the lobby, but I hope there's enough of us. We will take the vote. [[Quick consultation from the legislative department.]] I'm sorry. Now they're warning me that Mr. Vácha had a motion for another guarantee committee? No. He didn't. He would have to present him in this part of the hearing. But the proposal didn't come up. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be directed to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? This is vote number 37, registered as 176 Members, for 143, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee for discussion. I ask, is there a motion on the commandment of the next committee? And here comes Mr. Vácha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-003-003.u14	Thank you for the floor. I've been calling to ask if it could go to the Committee on Science, Education, Youth, Sports, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-003-003.u15	The school committee. Sure. I didn't notice any other suggestion. We will therefore vote on the commandment of the next committee as presented by Mr Vácha. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 38, registered is 176, for 116, versus 8. This proposal was adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the committee for... and now I am not able to say it exactly - for education and so on, the school committee, so we can understand each other as the next committee. Furthermore, in the general debate, a proposal was made to reduce the deadline for discussion to 30 days, which means 30 days to 30 days. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 39, registered is 176, for 76, versus 40. This proposal has not been adopted. We will therefore discuss this proposal within standard deadlines. We've dealt with this point, and I'm ending it. Thank you. Let's continue with the point.
