ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-002-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended /house print 120/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Jaroslava Němcová, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, will state the bill. Madam Secretary, please take the floor. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-002-021.u2	Hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. At the beginning of the second reading, which amends Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, just to remind you that the draft law contains two significant measures in the field of pension insurance, first of all, an increase in the basic pension ratio from 9 per cent to 10 per cent of the average salary, and further an increase in the pension by a thousand crowns per month to pensioners who reached the age of 85. The increase in the basic pension will concern all pensions, i.e. both the newly granted pensions and the pensions paid. An increase in the pension of CZK 1000 will also be granted from the repayment of the pension due in January 2019 to pensioners who have reached the age of 85 before the proposed measure was effective, i.e. before 1 January 2019. These proposed increases are only partial, albeit significant, pension insurance measures aimed at increasing the standard of living of pensioners. Following the discussion in the committees, I would like to point out that the bill does not mean weakening the principle of merit in calculating the decisive part of the pension, i.e. percentage scales. In the case of newly awarded pensions, there is no change in the method of calculating this percentage of the pension on the basis of lifelong income, only increases to all the same amount of basic income, which will result in an increase in the total amount of the pension for all newly granted pensions starting from 2019. In 2019 it will be about CZK 320 per month, i.e. that each pension granted in 2019 will be higher than if the rules laid down by the current legislation were to apply. For the pensions paid, the rules on total valorisation shall also not be amended. Also, for these pensions, the new legislation will bring, for virtually all pensions, an increase in pensions to all by the same amount as under the current legislation. As a result of the transitional provision, there will be a significant increase in paid pensions in January 2019. Note: The average pension will be more than CZK 900 per month, since in addition to the increase provided for under the current legislation, all pensions will increase by approx. 320 CZK regardless of their amount. After 2019, according to the proposed adjustment, paid pensions will also be increased more than according to the current adjustment, although the difference will be smaller depending on the amount of the pension, only in the order of ten crowns to CZK. According to detailed calculations by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs only in isolated cases for very high pensions in some years, depending on the development of individual parameters decisive for determining the level of pension valuation, there may be a slight weakening of the total amount of the increase, which would be based on current and proposed adjustment. This can happen when the increase in 2020, when for pensions above CZK 22,000, the difference in increase could be only a few crowns in order, e.g. For pensions of more than CZK 32,000, this difference would amount to CZK 10, and the increase in 2021 would not have resulted in this negative impact for these high pensions either, since these pensions would also be increased more than today, i.e. more than nine crowns. It is clear from the above that the proposed amendment does not undermine the principle of merit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-002-021.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I merely recall that at first reading we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee. Another committee which dealt with this proposal from the decision of the Chamber of Deputies was the Committee on Budgets. We have all received the Committee's resolution as House Presses 12/1 to 3. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Jan Bauer, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any amendments to the committee, justify here. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-002-021.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, the committee discussed this Government proposal at its 12th meeting on 10 May and adopted the following resolution. Social Policy Committee First, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree with the Government's bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, i.e. Parliamentary Press No 120, and for others, empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinion to the Chamber of Deputies meeting and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments, that is true. Secondly, and here I would ask for your attention, the Committee on Social Policy, secondly, asks the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to start work on the preparation of a change in the pension system without delay. I think that I should adopt the wording of the current Rules of Procedure to comment briefly on the second resolution adopted by the Committee on Social Policy. [[12.40 hours]] We have logically divided the discussion into two parts at the committee meeting. The first part of the discussion mainly focused on the government proposal, i.e. increasing the basic amount from 9 to 10 percent and increasing by CZK 1,000 for those who receive old-age pensions and are older than 85 years of age. The second part of the discussion dealt with generally pension reform or pension reform. And here, of course, the opinion prevailed that the government proposal is essentially a partial correction of the existing pension system, in no way solves the pensions of the current young generation, and in no way resolves the situation where pension costs threaten the public budgets of the Czech Republic, and that it is high time that the government, whether in remission or without demise, immediately started work on pension reform or change of pension system. So for this reason, this resolution was adopted, which I read here a little while ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-002-021.u5	I thank Mr Jan Bauer, who introduced us to the Committee on Social Policy. Since the proposal was also dealt with by the Committee on Budgets, I would ask Mr Kamal Farhan to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and, where appropriate, to justify amendments if such amendments have been adopted on the committee. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-002-021.u6	Thank you for the floor. Let me read the resolution of the Budget Committee of the 8th meeting of 9 May 2018 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, House Press 120. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr Hůrka, Mr Farhan's report and the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends, first, to the Chamber of Deputies, that the Government's bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, the House Press 120, approved without comment; and empowers me as rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. That's all for the budget committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-002-021.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I am now opening up a general debate to which five Members are currently enrolled. First of all, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, after her Mrs Golasowská, will speak. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-002-021.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to my two amendments, which I have read into the system and which respond to the proposal tabled. Therefore, I must also respond to the Minister's words, which stated that the merit component of pensions is not weakening in any way. I do not think that this would be the case, and therefore I am also putting forward one of those amendments, which is just about to change the percentage, which is going to increase from 9 to 10 per cent at the moment, thereby reducing the merit component. The Government's bill thus comes with a greater levelling of the pension system. The current pension system of the Czech Republic is already one of the most egalitarian in Europe, and most European countries, on the contrary, are going the way of strengthening the principles of merit. The Constitutional Court also stated in its finding on 23 March 2010 that the principle of solidarity cannot, within the framework of the pension system prevailing over the system of merit and lead to the practical adjustment of pensions. The explanatory memorandum refers to Article 30 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. 1 where it guarantees the right to adequate material security. However, according to the Constitutional Court, the adequacy of material security must be interpreted not only with regard to the ability to satisfy the individual's life needs from the pension benefit in order to guarantee him a socially dignified human existence, but also with regard to the insured as a payer co-creating the financial resources from which he is, virtually. adequate material security will be provided. Since I believe that the Government's proposal in that particular part is precisely a change in the percentage scale that goes against this decision by the Constitutional Court, I present an amendment which removes this novelty from the whole bill and maintains the current state of affairs. So this is the first proposal that we would like to remove as a TOP 09 change, virtually. maintain the current state of affairs. And if this amendment goes through, we have no problem voting for the whole bill, because the next amendment, which concerns, therefore, 85 years old and older, where they are granted CZK 1,000 to retire, seems meaningful to us. I also have to say that this is not really a change in the pension system that could be considered a reform. And I am very pleased that the Committee on Social Policy has adopted the rapporteur's proposal and is proposing that we call on the Government to start working on it, because it is really necessary at this time that we finally start looking at it. The second proposal I would like to introduce to you is from a slightly different injury and concerns social services assistants. Because they are people who today are not entitled to have their pension insurance paid by the state. The Social Welfare Assistant is the Institute of Law No. 108/2006 Coll., on social services, and these are persons caring for other persons dependent at different levels on helping others. This care is provided outside registered social services, whose capacity is limited. The aim of the introduction of this institute was to relieve the social services and to enable dependent persons to choose the way in which care is provided freely. For example, when we compare the capacity of homes for seniors in 2016, the number of beds in the Czech Republic was 37 247, but the number of people over 65 years of age according to the recorded data of MPSV, who depend on care, persons at second to fourth levels, is 167 700 in the Czech Republic. So we see the clear inequality and the need for this care to complement other possible institutional, virtually. in this case, it is in a more free form, namely the assistants. The example of seniors makes it clear that the state and its registered social services cannot take care of all dependents who would need it. Assistants take care of seniors, and not only them, in their home environment, whether they are close people or social care assistants under the Social Services Act, and contribute significantly to the stability of the social system in the Czech Republic. Anyone who is over 18 years of age and is fit to be an assistant may become an assistant. However, if the person is not close to the person to whom he provides assistance or does not share a common household with him, he or she needs to conclude a contract for the provision of assistance which is subject to the control of the employment office. Law No 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, provides for the provision of health and pension insurance for carers - I quote: If an authorised person is provided with assistance by a person close to or an assistant to social care, the regional branch of the Labour Office shall, at their request, issue free of charge written confirmation proving the duration of such care for the purposes of material distress, health insurance, pension insurance and employment. This certificate shall always indicate the degree of dependence of the person receiving the care. For the purposes of pension insurance, the certificate shall also indicate the amount of the allowance that belonged to the beneficiary at the time the aid was granted. End of quote from the law. In practice, however, this security applies in full only to persons close to and living in the common household. Social services assistants in a contractual relationship with the dependent person they are caring for and registered by the employment office shall be covered only by health insurance. And that's why my amendment is here. He corrects this discrepancy between the individual laws and tries to make sure that even in the Pension Insurance Act the contractual assistants are mentioned in the insured persons' circle. So it is a minor change that will make life very easy for these people and that can help them greatly. And this article about senior care in the Czech Republic can be supported. Thank you for your attention and for any support for these amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-002-021.u9	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mrs Golasowská, I will inform you that Mrs Jana Vildumetzová, from today's meeting, apologizes from 12.35 to the end of the day for reasons of work. I will not give the floor to the Member who is enrolled in the general debate because Mr Lubomír Španěl has actually made a statement here. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-002-021.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This time, I will not respond to Mrs Pekarová Adamová, as she might expect. On the contrary, I would like to thank the Minister for this government proposal. And I'm just going to say very briefly that I'm mostly grateful for the pensioners with the smaller pensions. I'm glad someone finally used common sense after x years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-002-021.u11	Mr Member, I have let you finish, but I would remind you that factual remarks are precisely to respond to the speeches of the previous speakers. I've interpreted it so freely, but it's really a very free interpretation, so I'm asking you all to use factual notes to do what they're meant to do. Mrs Golasowská will now speak in the general debate, Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-002-021.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a lovely afternoon. I would like to say that I very much welcome the changes that lead to the improvement of the quality of life of our pensioners as regards the financial increase, because we know that pensions are still low, the average pension is about 12,000 and there are many who will not reach the average. I would like to talk about some of the amendments I want to put forward here. Four relate to a bit of a marginal group, and they are widowed, widowed, and widowed. I consulted with the organization that deals with the situation of these people, and they really have nothing to envy. The first amendment concerns the continuance of disability and widow's pension. There I propose that both pensions be provided in full. It is now the case that the person receiving a third-grade disability pension will reach both a widow's and a disability's pension. The second amendment concerns an extension of the period of receipt of widow's pension from one year to two years. The reason to extend this period by one year is that one year is often a short time for the survivor to resolve the financial situation, which concerns both inheritance proceedings, then for example blocking cards, solving housing, when suddenly he is on his own to pay rent, that he is looking for other housing that will be cheaper for him. Furthermore, it is necessary to repay loans, mortgages, etc. And that's where it turns out, after consulting the organization that has the experience, that one year is often not enough. The next amendment concerns mitigating the conditions for the required period of insurance, because it often happens that the person concerned lacked a few months in order for the survivor to be entitled to a widow's pension, so we propose that the period be reduced if he is missing several months, and the maximum period of relief is one year. The fourth proposal, which also concerns widowed women, is an increase in the percentage of 50 to 60 per cent of the original widow's and disability pension, because even those widow's pensions, let's say it's not a hit parade, and they're really low, so we think it's a bit of an increase in that percentage. These are four amendments relating, as I said, to the groups widowed. And the last amendment concerns the women of mothers we would like to appreciate because we know that women still have pensions up to CZK 2,000 lower than men. This is also due to the fact that often when they were home with children, they spent many years raising children and lost their careers, jobs that they might not have returned to, they did not return to the job position. And that's where we propose a contribution of 500 crowns for every raised child. So many of my five amendments, to which I will then sign up with the numbers of the House documents in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-002-021.u13	Thank you. Mr Kaňkovský in the general debate. It is true that there is not much time for his performance, because at 13 o'clock we will conclude the discussion of this point. But if you at least start, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-002-021.u14	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will cut my speeches short and take the floor in the second reading, because I would not like to share my speeches. Maybe I just can't forgive myself for one snag at a time. On Tuesday, when this second reading was to be discussed, we took a break for which we were criticized, because we wanted the Prime Minister to be present in discussing this bill. We believe that such an important amendment, which will make a significant contribution to the state budget, would deserve the presence of the Prime Minister. And I dare say the Minister of Finance deserves to be present. I know they have a busy schedule, but I think it's a really important amendment, so I'm not gonna keep my act until the next day we get the chance to get back to the pension insurance amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-002-021.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And since the next speech would not have the time to hear all the arguments that Members would like to hear from the general debate, no one is logged in with a factual remark that we would fit in with within a time limit, so I am interrupting this point, I am ending the morning meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll meet you here at 2:30 p.m. at the mouth of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-24-ps2017-013-03-002-021.u16	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the next item. That's what they are.
