ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u1	1. Request of the Government of the Czech Republic to express confidence By letter dated 18 December 2017, the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš informed the President of the Chamber of Deputies that the government appointed by the President of the Republic on 13 December 2017 was ready to appear before the Chamber of Deputies and to ask for a vote of confidence. The Constitution of the Czech Republic prescribes to do so within 30 days of its appointment. The Government's programming declaration was delivered to you on Monday, 8 January 2018 as House Document 209 and was distributed to you today on the bench. I ask Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, hello. I would like to thank our government for the opportunity to come before you and ask for confidence, based on the government's programming declaration for a better Czech Republic, as we called it. I firmly hope that today's debate will be mainly about the programme, because I think we all promised voters a programme, and on the basis of that programme we were voted for and, of course, they expect us to implement this programme. I think it is clear why we are going before the House, which, of course, can and may not give us confidence, and that is 30 days from 13 December when the President of the Republic appointed our government. We had two options: either we would still negotiate, we would come to you, we would propose various coalitions - the numbers that the President said, I know the first number, the second number, but I don't know the other one, I should study it - and the state would be that at this point we would still have the former Prime Minister Sobotka's government in remission. It would take... I don't know how long, I don't know what's gonna happen, but let's just say a few months. Of course, we can argue here whether we have acted enough or not. I think it's already 24. 10. I made it clear who we have 103 with and that this is a clear coalition. It is widely known that I am a supporter of the majority system after the President's statement on coalition partners, but nevertheless I think it is about people and not always about parties or movements. You've been very categorically expressing yourself, most of you, that you don't want to go to the government with us, you don't want to tolerate us, so we said we wouldn't waste any time and we'd start working, and that's what we did. That is why we came into existence on 13 December, and the President granted me, because, of course, on 14 December, the European Council was very important for the future of our country, for the security of our country, for the future of Europe. I think that even though the election campaign was what it was, and it was very aggressive, there were a lot of attacks and various imaginary pseudo-causes, there were constant attempts to criminalize us, so after the election we forgot about it and we were very generous, yes, certainly, in the assembly of the House's leadership. We could have asked for two Vice-Presidents, but we didn't. We were very generous in drawing up committees and committees. So there's hardly anyone who can blame us in that way. We were also trying to get coalition or minority government, but there was no room for it. I don't want to argue about what happened here. At this point, I don't think it really matters. We had a 30-day deadline, and it expires on Saturday. I am aware of the individual statements of the parties, but I would like to talk about the programme today. I firmly believe you've read the program. We actually redesigned it several times based on the expression of different unions, tripartite, trade unionists and so on. We think the program is very good. Of course, we will do everything we can to fulfill it. The program has more or less six main points. One important point is that we want to be seen in Europe. We underestimated the entry into the European Union and felt that the European Union was somewhere where we would send retired politicians who would make nice money and do nothing. I will not be here to remind you how the Presidency took place and how important it is. Europe, of course, has big problems; the European Union needs reform. I don't think she made it to brexit. Brexit is wrong. Great Britain was our strategic partner, we worked together on more strategies. It's wrong. The main problem, of course, is the uncontrolled migration. We want to defend our interests in Europe, we want to do everything we can to prevent it from happening, that we are being re-voted and imposed on us by illegal migration, migrants, people we do not want here, and we are telling Europe how to do it. [[11.40 hours]] Of course, we must seek allies to convince Europe. Of course it's V4's foundation, but we need other states, we need some strategy, we need to know what the blocking minority is, and which states would go with us. And I think it's very important, and that's why, as soon as we got in, I'm personally doing it. I have contacted various premieres several times, I am going to Bulgaria on 22 January, which has the Presidency. From 1. 7. The Presidency of Austria, a potential ally in opposition to quotas, and we have clearly said at the European Council that the quotas divide Europe, are not effective. The excellent thing is that the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, is on our side. And I think it is most important that we explain to some countries that the way to force us into migration, allocation of quotas and senseless speeches, where we should all allegedly have the same social benefits so that migrants come to us, not only to Germany and Sweden, is absolute nonsense. So we in Europe must fight for our interests, we must be active. It's not about how many of us are, it's about how active we are. I will also go to the World Economic Forum in Davos. Nobody's been there since Mr. Klaus. There's the largest concentration of statesmen in the world in three days, and it's about the bilateral negotiations, the negotiations, that's very important. Of course, apart from illegal migration, it is cooperation against terrorism and, of course, a budget. The budget will be very important and we need to get involved so that it doesn't happen that someone will dictate to us again how we should use the money from Europe for various soft programs, for various retraining. I don't know who if we have the lowest unemployment in Europe. So these are the things we want to promote, and we're going to pursue a clear strategy. We are not in the euro area, but this does not mean that we are inferior. I don't know what the core is, the hard core, I don't know how to measure speed. I always ask journalists from abroad: How do we measure the speed? The Czech Republic in public finances can be an example of all Member States. We're in second place today. Our debt to GDP is only 32 percent and has fallen. We've reduced our debt to the last government, and we've raised hundreds of billions of extra taxes. Yes, thanks to the inspection report and the EET, and no one can question that. In addition, growth and VAT collection are once as much. We certainly want to be active in this regard. And, of course, I think that with most of you, we have the same view that we should not do Czech politics in the European Parliament, we should fight for our interests. For our interests. And I think that most of the parties and the movement have the same opinions about it. Another thing that is very important in our programme is digital Czechia. The year is 2018 and we still have to march to the office when we actually want to deal with normal life situations, such as mother's, driver's license, new IDs, car transcripts or the establishment of a business. Well, I think it's pretty embarrassing. In 2008 the Czech Government was the 25th best in the world in IT and nine years later we are in 50th place, somewhere between Belarus and Costa Rica. That's a real shame, I think. Everyone's talking about it, everyone's talking about Estonia, where they have 170 computer services. We really want to get this project started. What's today's situation? The Ministry and other central authorities have colonized suppliers who charge prices for managing existing systems for which everyone in the corporate sphere would laugh at them. They've been hooked for ten or more years, so there's no room for fair competition on existing governance or the development of new systems, although of course many honest suppliers are calling for it. eGovernment must have a clear vision and we will only achieve it through centralization, we cannot have 14 small eGovernments in 14 ministries. That's actually what he's calling about, and it's the pirate-party colleagues who are calling. The practice must end when ministries do everything themselves, even if they do not have the necessary experts. Authorities need to get clear boundaries to move in. They must be given guidance, help, advice, so that they no longer fear whether they will be covered by the Autonomous Office or the SAO. We want to create and create a central authority managed by a government representative for IT and digitization. It's not gonna be an office, it's gonna be one person who's only gonna have to spend money on business cards to oversee vision and ICT building for the entire state administration. We will resolve relations between ministries and the competence of individual authorities and the state enterprise Česká pošta. Other state IT companies such as NAKIT controlled by the interior, CENDIS managed by the Ministry of Transport and the State Treasury The Centre for Shared Services under the Ministry of Finance needs to be properly managed and controlled and created legal and material conditions for them to be able to deliver their services to the entire government, not only to their parent ministries. The post office then instead of selling tickets, insurance and editing is supposed to function as a post office, to deliver to its own hands what the citizen orders from the state using the Internet. How about if we rule for four years, we can make it? We'll give citizens, entrepreneurs and businesses digital services that they call for. The state ICT will have a concept and it will be clear where the Czech eGovernment is heading. Estonia and Great Britain. We will introduce the ICT concept of the state and take responsibility for the routing of eGovernment. The individual ministries will have clear binding standards within which they will proceed in the development of applications for citizens and inside the office. Only in this way can it be possible to build shared services, use shared purchases and use cloud services, thereby saving the state hundreds of millions up to billions. We'll start with an audit and control of all the contracts. The state must know what and who it pays for and why and whether it doesn't pay for the same thing twice or three times. We will create a central portal for the state, where it will be easy for all citizens to find information and do what we need to do. Electronically, modernly, clearly. Digitization of the state won't be in the hands of lawyers who say we've always done this here, and that's why we can't. We will work with experts to modernise the state, and we will change the laws together. Digitally friendly legislation must become an essential part of the reform of our entire legal order. So what will be the result in four years of our government? We'll start, we'll start, and we'll do our best in a process where a visit to the Bureau will be an exception to the citizens. Usual contact will be via the web or mobile application. If it goes to banks or operators, it has to go to the state. The data generated by the State and its components, from timetables to weather forecasts to all possible registers, will be open and available to all citizens for further processing. I'm curious to see what people will find out. You, dear colleagues from social democracy, have also written in the programme: "The state and public administration will use free software to a much greater extent to publish data in an open form. " Tops 09 colleagues, you want to promote public data that are provided free of charge by citizens or business entities and which are processed and stored through a public investment, should also be freely available for commercial use. Another quote from the program: "We will enforce quality open data." Yes, that's the Pirates program, and that's our government program. The Czech Republic will be an active player in the digital economy at European level. We will not have obsolete laws that prevent the development of digital platforms, whether domestic or foreign. We will solve the issue of services such as Uber or Airbnb, and we will set clear rules for platforms so that people are not afraid of unnecessary bureaucracy, when they want to make a quick profit using it, but we will also defend the interests of our citizens against large multinational corporations, fight for cheaper and better mobile internet and for access to smaller municipalities. Our ancestors were able to introduce electricity to the last solitude. Today we have to copy them with the Internet. [[11.50 hours]] Digitisation and electronisation of the state administration is not a programme of one party and one electoral term. We want to start a new era where there won't be any arguments about why something's going wrong. We want to lean hard on eGovernment and offer citizens such a service that we can all be proud of. So I'm hoping my colleagues from the other parties can help us with that. We're open, and we'd like you to offer us your experts to help us with this project. Another very important point, and I think we're able to handle it. I think the most important thing for me is that we want pension reform. We really want concrete steps. We want to do the reform we've been talking about for a long time. The commission and the status quo are what it is. Our pensions are really low. In fact, with the growing age of life, the number of beneficiaries of old-age pensions is increasing, even though the legal retirement age is gradually increasing. Because early retirement is possible under certain circumstances, a group of pensioners include people between the ages of 50 and 100 years old. It is clear that this group is very disparate and with completely different needs, possibilities and limitations. What they have in common is an old-age pension and a large degree of dependence on its amount. And it's very low. The average pension this year will be CZK 12,240 and the people who receive this pension and less are about £1,300,000. We want to guarantee regular valorisation linked to consumer basket prices and average wage growth with the guarantee of the benefits of the current valuation formula. But most importantly, we want to increase the basic income from 9 to 10 percent of the average wage. The adjustment for all equally guaranteed pension components will contribute to the improvement of the standard of living, especially for people with low pensions, where the basic exchange constitutes a significant part of the pension. Mostly women who worked for a lower wage than men who sacrificed a career in child care or other dependent family members. Because women live longer, there are high-age pensioners who retire according to the old rules, i.e. according to the number of children raised, or went into early retirement because they were not attractive to employers at the pre-retirement age. And it is this group that is significantly threatened by poverty, and change is of great importance to it. An increase in the basic pension ratio is a one-off step that does not undermine the principle of merit applied in calculating the pension. The current legislation takes into account the increased cost of living for persons reaching 100 years and grants them automatic pension growth of CZK 2 000 per month. We want to introduce a similar increase in the amount of CZK 1,000 per month for people who reach 85 years. It means a jump raise for 200,000 people. As a result of the extended retirement age, the subject of the possibility of early retirement is serious for people employed in professions that cannot be exercised until the proper retirement age. We will prepare a proposal that will allow an earlier retirement paid out of the employer's contribution, staff and state support. The costs associated with this specific adjustment will not be burdened by the first pillar. Retirement must not be the only way to solve problems in the labour market. Everyone must be able to change their profession in time, to use their lifelong knowledge, skills and experience and to carry out work that will satisfy them and that they can handle. Employment services must step up work with people of the pre-accession age and adapt their needs to active employment policy instruments, a system of retraining, but in particular recognition of qualifications. Older people must not be discriminated against in access to work or in access to education. We will encourage the use of non-traditional forms of work and flexible working time adjustments so that all age groups meet on the labour market. We are determined to prepare and enforce years of promised and deferred pension reform. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will be the guarantor of the reform. To this end, we will set up a team of experts to carry out an overall review of the output of previous pension committees, evaluate the existing system and propose basic systemic changes to pension reform based on predictions of demographic, social and economic developments. The reform must be prepared and discussed in such a way as to guarantee long-term stability. Reform is to be implemented in a form that will receive broad political and social support. Reform will be crucial for the future. It will maintain the demands of those who have already entered the labour market for this purpose will serve a sensitive and fair transition period. We want to separate the administration of the income and expenditure of the pension system from the state budget. For the first time this year, we're gonna have a surplus pension account plus 3.5 billion. This will guarantee greater transparency and predictability and, at the same time, greater protection against incompatible politically motivated interventions. The administration will maintain the advantages of the existing system, which has traditionally proven itself, such as reliability and a high level of legal certainty, low cost, professionalism and public administrative guarantees in the management of insurance premiums. Of course, it is necessary to reduce the proportion of pensioners' dependence on payments from the State in the future. Each person will be able to actively influence the amount of his or her income, the differentiation of possible sources of income, using state-supported forms of old-age provision according to individual options and discretion. Of course, we want to reopen the debate about how employers - and today it is the ideal situation - will actually contribute to employees so that they can have employee savings on old age. We would like to set up a state pension office to manage these funds, and the public will know where its taxes and social contributions are going and how they will be used. We want, we are newly proposing free use of passenger rail transport for all seniors aged plus 65. Of course, there's a debate about the cost of a card that seniors can use for free. There is, of course, a debate about how it was in Slovakia. We have a different model, and we think that if a pensioner actually has an average of 12,000 and pays rent of 7-8,000 and medications, I think this is a very important help too. So, of course, this is a very, very ambitious project, and I strongly hope that you will all be involved in this project. We're open, we've been discussing this in tripartite, and I personally want to be on the team that is actually going to deal with this. Another thing is that we want to draw up a strategic investment plan. Yes, the President is repeatedly blaming me. I don't think he's right about... It is important to remember in what state - the former coalition government and the transport resort, which our movement had in mind - we took over the transport infrastructure. That we didn't even have a law to buy land, that there were no projects, that everything was actually stopped. So I believe that investments in transport infrastructures are already higher than in the past. But it is true that investment is insufficient, that growth today is driven by consumption of companies and citizens and exports and that there are large reserves. Yes. Large reserves are in the drawing of European funds. We have a special meeting tomorrow, we'll evaluate how we draw on 31st. 12., and there is also a need to add. And, of course, the state's investment can fundamentally affect our growth and tourism, for example. [[12.00 hours]] So we finally, and this is the task of Minister Took, that on January 31st, he will submit the Lining Construction Act to the government. As part of the negotiations, or let's say consultation with you, we have also learned that the pirát have a proposal. We all talk about it, we all say we want to build. We have 450 kilometers for 130 billion unfinished bypasses. I could talk about bypasses for a long time. So I'm hoping that we can agree on that and that the law will finally pass and we'll start building quickly. It is unusual that it took us 37 years to get the highway to Hradec Králové and that we were proud in December 2016, that we opened Prague-Ústí, and it took 32 years. And we don't have the speed trains. That's what we're talking about. So, of course, we need a new building bill, but this law is crucial, and we want to speed up the construction of highways. How long this has been going on is unacceptable. And, of course, we want to prepare routes for high-speed railroads. Now they've opened the Berlin-Munich connection in Germany, the speed train, and it's driving us around again. This is where we slept. We really need a clear plan. And if it took seven years in the UK, those speed trains, well, with us, if we took it properly, we could do it within ten years. I'm sure we want to invest in the reconstruction of the station. Some stations are really in terrible shape. Of course, we want to invest finally in new nuclear power plant blocks. We, as the former government, have been talking about this for a very long time. It is about whether the government or the management of ČEZ decides in this country. And I think CEZ has what it takes to manage one block financially. And the strategy that was in the past that CEZ went abroad and invested not quite effectively, so I think it should have been the other way around and that we should have focused on energy security first. We lack such large investments in large investment units. We want to support productive investment for small and medium-sized companies. Of course, we don't build apartments, we don't have apartments. We need to finally make a deal. And of course we want to build apartments for seniors, but also for young families to be affordable, and there is a need for cooperation with the Union of Towns and Municipalities. We had a law on social housing here, and I believe that housing in every village and city is to be the mayor or mayor and the state is to provide funding for him in some clear program, as we made investments in schools around Prague, where it was forgotten that there are satellites and that there are young people there, and they even have children, and that those kids want to go to school. So the apartments are important. We don't have enough to stop and we want to focus on it. Of course, investment in reconstruction of monuments is important. We are very lucky that we are the sixth safest country in the world, that tourists are coming, there are more and more of them, and in some parts in Prague or Telč or Český Krumlov there are so many that it is a problem. We need to get them to other parts of our country and we need those unique monuments, Imperial Spa, Moravian Krumlov and others. Terezín. The Víznerův's house. These are all the things we need to realize. And we would, and we would like to review any possible investment in our country, where any mayor, mayor and chieftain and minister would say, this is what I would invest if I had the money. This also applies to the sports infrastructure that is missing here. The unions want to invest in sports infrastructure, but the Ministry only has 10 percent of the requirements. Investments are definitely important. We need legislation to do this, and of course there is no problem with finances. We're doing great, and I'm sure there's plenty of room. We want to start reforming the state for the next one. I'm sure we've talked about this. The budgets were great, and last year too, when we took out the European Union's money, we had a de facto balanced budget, and last year we did the European Union and accepted the same money, so for the future, I don't think we need to be so worried. And, of course, we want to draw up a better budget for the long term. And, of course, I don't know how it's going to go down, but if the government were to decide on that budget today, it wouldn't be like every minister comes in and now he's fighting for his department no matter what salaries, for example. my colleague from another resort, e.g. education. If GIBS has an average of 60,000, and I was overruled by the government with another 21 percent raise as Minister of Finance, and on the other hand, the salaries of teachers and social workers were low, so yes, there was no solidarity in terms of budget discussions. And, of course, if our colleagues here criticized that the budget for 2018 is being wasted, we would be happy if you would tell us specifically. I took out the funding point for nonprofit organizations on government today, because the overview is so inconspicuous that I let people know how the 17.8 billion that flow into the nonprofit sector through ministries and authorities are actually in detail. Officials have presented a table of over 50 million. And there's a problem, of course, because it's unsystemic. There's this sport, and I think we should have a clear picture of how much sport is in it. Allegedly, 36 percent. How many other things are there? We'll analyze it and tell the public, everyone where the money goes. The fact that this increased from 2014 to 2016 from 7 to 10.8 billion in resorts, mainly in the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education, will of course interest us where it all goes. Of course, we want to draw up new laws on income tax, and of course we also want to look at the regulation of things that our citizens actually buy. The price of water. There is no way that water is more expensive in our country than in Israel. Of course, we want to better manage state property. As Minister of Finance, I came up with an administrative district project. And you can laugh all you want. By the way, tonight, the lady in charge of the nonprofits, I thought she was sitting at the government office. No, she's sitting out again. The administrative district project for several ministries is great because in the coming years we would have to pay 7.6 billion to maintain some of the old buildings. And the total investment is 9.5 billion. Nine and a half billion. I think a five-year return - so tell me one developer, a single investor who invests money and gets it back in five years. He's not like that! Today, we pay 500 million for rent in Prague, and we have clouds of buildings that are now well used. This, of course, is also a huge investment project. So we'd like to finally have the State of Property representation agency really concentrate on doing it both abroad, yes, there's potential to fund the property. Yes, I think there's room, too. [[12.10 hours]] We want to fight usury. I've always asked why we don't have a ceiling here, why some people borrow money before paychecks for, I don't know, 150 percent. And I think, for example, in Slovakia, they have a system for that. So that's what we want to do. Of course, we want to straighten out the relationship between the self-governing bodies and the state budget. Today the regions want more resources from the center and we say yes, the regions, you got 23 billion in the last period. Yes, but the regions say: but we have a shortage of repairs on the roads of the second and third classes. The total deficit may be 95 billion. But the former government - we were the first, Minister Ťok was the first to find the money, and we gave it to those counties no matter what color the governor was there. But the fact that the roads are in a catastrophic state? Yeah, that's right. And we want to deal with it. Now there's been some disinformation about drivers again. Of course, we want drivers to have high salaries. And there was a government measure. That's when the government paid for it. The target was, six thousand drivers were missing, but six thousand drivers are still missing. And the question is, did the private carriers from the county really give the money to the drivers? We want these people to get it. Maybe the labour inspectorate should take a look at it. So that's what we agreed with the union and the head of the association, and we'll certainly be looking for money to give the regions money to fix the roads of the second and third classes. But, of course, the point is, we're next to each other. Government, county, self-government. And we have to work together. It's about working together properly to be constructive. And actually, I think the first negotiations with the generals and the government, even though, of course, we're a little caught up in some things, but we see what the authorities and the regions are thinking, and I think the authorities understand again what we want. So I think it's gonna work. We need social welfare reform and labour market regulation. We have 270 000 unemployed - at least in Europe. We have 200,000 job vacancies. There is - this is the biggest problem - a new workforce is missing. But some people simply don't want to work and have doses. And we probably have a program that isn't motivated, and we should change that. And those who are on welfare should do voluntary work within municipalities and cities. We have, I think, a plan about 20 hours a month. In Slovakia they have 8 hours a week and have very good experience. And the number of people taking welfare benefits has dropped dramatically. Of course, there is also the question of using money for social housing. So we need to lay down rules for funding education and finally start strengthening technical education. Everyone here is talking about a dual system. I don't understand why we didn't have it anymore, technical apprentice, and we should also bring some order into the college system. I'm asking, why do we have industrialists, farmers and health care under the county? Why isn't it under the ministry? Probably the minister, the resort should be more motivated when companies go there and say we don't have people, we don't have these professions. We started discussing this. Of course, it is a question of which direction and, of course, of course, within the House if it will even be in the mood to debate it. We need clear rules on health funding, capacity development. Everyone has to have a doctor, and they can't wait weeks or months for treatment. As Minister of Finance, I wanted this trivial thing for the former Minister of Health to tell us how the instrument committee is actually buying those MRIs. We're not supposed to split the machines by what the governor is. And we didn't get that either. And somewhere in the Moravian-Silesian region, there are 16 magnetic resonances and three months waiting in other regions. I think people deserve the same access to healthcare, and we want to debate it. We want to finally do some state sport policy and actually promote mass sport. We need our kids to play sports. And, of course, a top sport. We want to set up an agent who would set the rules to actually end up with our children and to invest in sports infrastructure. So that's the next circuit. And the last de facto is that we want to strengthen our security. That means we want to increase our defense spending. Of course, the defense needs to spend the money it gets, and hopefully it will accelerate. And of course, our internal security is important. This must be based on predicting the emergence of crisis situations and their consistent solution. We need the interior and defence departments to cooperate more. In the past, this was not really an example of great cooperation. Priority is to ensure energy security and self-sufficiency in the production of electricity. We also want to set up a programme of self-sufficiency for food production. I think that everywhere in the world, every state has to take care of people, not just security, but also to have something to eat, even though it may seem absurd to you today. But we have to think in the long run for decades, not just for one term. We need to protect the soil as the foundation of our wealth. We made the mistake of allowing foreigners to buy land. They don't have it in Poland and Hungary. Yes, of course it has an absolute impact on the agricultural-food vertical. We need to keep water in the landscape. We'll solve the waste management. We need to protect the raw materials. We don't have much of that raw material left. So, of course, we also want to address the general government. It's a habit that all these ministers have their numbers, their windows and their black souls. There's 16,000 of them. Sixteen thousand. Yeah, well, that makes it look bad how many officers we have. But the 16,000 is only there to make the rest of the officials pay more. And, of course, I want to change that because there's no reason. Of course, we're not gonna touch the money, but we're gonna make the situation real. 16,000. It's only at the ministries, it's 9,646. So we were playing here, it was actually showing up, and we all knew it was different. And yet it's with the demands, with the claims that every minister actually collects it there. And we should definitely see if he's able to spend those claims at all. We have some kind of Civil Service Act. Yeah, we didn't quite make it. That's my fault, of course. Oh, please, why are you talking about some long-knife night? After all, ministers, we have allowed ourselves to reduce the number of sections. And if the Minister of Industry had 11 deputies, and now he's got, I don't know, seven, I don't know what he's got 11 deputies for. And I took the liberty of letting 57 people out of the government office. Because Mr. President is right that... There's not a thousand people, there's 780. But there are plenty of people who are useless and who came there for political reasons rather than professional reasons. We want to change that, and I hope we can actually agree on that. [[12.20 hours]] The Civil Service Act was about depoliticizing the civil service, not about finding plenty of politicians there before the law was effective. And it's nothing political. We are actually approaching this in a pragmatic way. And I hope the novel - we need to open up the state administration. So how are we supposed to hire good lawyers or good I.T.s if we can't pay them? In fact, if a civil servant is in doubt, there's nothing we can do. So I don't think it's normal for the Minister to have less powers than the Secretary of State. Those are all the things we want to deal with. We want to fight corruption, for sure. As an MP, I proposed the Whistleblowing Act. We've just called the Anti-Corruption Commission on Friday, the agenda is in charge of Minister Pelikán, and we definitely want to work together. If, of course, the pirát and STAN here have opinions and suggestions, then we are certainly ready to cooperate. Of course, the minority government - you do not like it, you will say that we have not tried and that this is wrong and that we are threatening democracy. And I don't know how we threaten democracy. You're making proposals. If we hadn't done that minority government, we couldn't have discussed your laws at all. The SPD has tabled a bill on the referendum, which we will discuss on 17 January. This morning we discussed the draft law on taxation of church restitution submitted by KSČM. The government has given a positive opinion on this, and the House will decide. So what kind of threat to democracy? We work, we discuss your laws. We discuss them objectively, not politically, as was the custom in the past. And you decide, the House decides, this is where it happens. We're not blocking it. And I'm talking - the Lining Construction Act, we want to look at the law of competence, the Civil Service Act, and you're here to decide, not ours - luckily, of course, but it's gonna be fine, we're looking forward to it. So we're working. And I repeat, if we weren't so used to it, everything was blocked. Any suggestions from the Senate would be in line. And I think it's a good thing that minority government is working. We had no choice. And it's nonsense to say we're threatening democracy. On the contrary, we want to develop and support freedom and democracy in our country. And, of course, we in minority composition will listen to your suggestions and cooperate actively. We do not say ahead of time, as it was customary before, that everything the opposition proposes is wrong. No, we're open to this, and we also expect you to be involved in these projects, to supply us with experts. And if we change some corporate bosses like CzechInvest yesterday, we'll make the tender open. We don't have a problem with that. We don't have a horde of political members who move on to positions. So we will listen to you, we will actively cooperate - if you want to, of course. I expect when you talk about constructive opposition work, that's how it's going to be. We don't have a control problem. On the contrary, check, I'll be glad. I can't keep an eye on all the ministers and ministers either. Check, I don't have a problem. On the contrary, we will be happy. There are interpelations, so if you ask us specific questions, we'd be happy to cooperate with you. We want a transparent state without corruption. We will cooperate with social partners and other organisations, so we listen, as well as with the Union of Towns and Municipalities etc. So we're not torn away from reality. We know what our citizens' lives are, and we will do our utmost to improve it. Our country has enormous potential. Huge. I'm surprised some commentators are slandering our nation. We celebrate a hundred years, and the first twenty years of 1918 - 1938 were among the top in the world and in Europe, an example for other countries. And that's where we need to go back. It's not true. Our people work everywhere in the world and they're successful. I.T.s in Silicon Valley and others. I don't know why anyone underestimates us. We have what it takes to get back to the first league in Europe. So I'd really like us to think about the citizens, what their lives are like. I can only say that we will do our utmost to ensure that our government works effectively in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic, to the fullest effect, that we have a move on the goal and we have clear steps. Of course, I want to ask you for that trust and try to think about what we said, what I said, what we have in the programming statement. And, of course, if we don't get that trust today, we'll see how it goes. We are also open to a program where, of course, we also have tax cuts, we also have a super-gross wage cancellation. We have - as we say, our movement is for everyone. So you who identify yourself as left and right, we're all for everyone. We have a program there for everyone, which is why I think you should support us in the finals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u3	I thank the Prime Minister and open the debate. I have several applications here with priority rights, specifically seven. They have priority and then it will be their turn to properly logged in. The first is Mr Kalousek, followed by Vice-President Okamura, followed by President chovanec. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to comment on the trust point of the Government of the Czech Republic and partly on the government's programming statement under the TOP 09 faction. We have a kind of premiere in the post-November development of the Czech Republic. This is not the first time the Prime Minister, who was an active member of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia before November, has been here several times. But it is the first time that a former State Security agent has asked for trust under the code name Bureš and a person who is accused and prosecuted by the law enforcement authorities for tax fraud and damage to the European Union's financial interests. It is not only the Czech law enforcement authorities, but the European Anti-Fraud Office, an independent authority at European Union level, that reasonably suspects him of these acts. From this point of view, this is a premiere and we think that not only in the Czech Republic but also in the territory of all the countries of the European Union. And I believe that the prestige of the Czech Republic can no longer serve this simple fact. It's not the only reason the TOP 09 can't tell the government trust. We have repeated several times that the government, given its composition and policy, could not gain confidence, even if Prime Minister Babiš was not a registered State Security agent and even if he had no problems with law enforcement authorities. However, these are, of course, the most understandable reasons. Trust is emotional, and it's not completely measurable. Either I trust someone based on the experience I have with him, with the fact that he's honest, doesn't lie and steals or I don't trust him. People who lie, and the Prime Minister, especially in the case of his subsidy fraud, which he is suspected of, have lied many times, not only to us as the Chamber of Deputies, but to the entire public, so to the people we know they are lying, we are usually not prone to believe too much because we have this experience. [[12.30 hours]] koneckonců all, President Zeman has recommended him here in his pre-election speech, who we also know is not a problem with the truth, and that the independent court has repeatedly stated that his statements are false and that the President of the Republic has lied. The liar recommends someone we know who lied and is suspected of stealing, and we're supposed to believe him? We wouldn't do that in a civil life. If we have a constitutional obligation for the citizens who voted for us here, then we cannot believe the more. For the Government's programming statement, let me state that I listened carefully to the Prime Minister's presentation. The programming statement was really reworked several times, and it is, if I count correctly, the twelfth presentation of the Prime Minister, who presented his programming statement in this House. They were premieres both left-wing and right-wing, they were prime ministers, that is, for everyone, as Prime Minister Babiš said, and all their performances, whether I could or could not agree with them, had their level of speech by the Prime Minister, which represents his vision for either four years or for a shorter part, when they were premieres of officialism. The presentation we've heard now - and I believe it's now an objective, not biased evaluation - is beyond any criticism. The presentation is beyond any standards both in terms of content and in terms of formality. Sure, we'll find a lot of promises there. Promises for everyone, at all levels of detail, both from very general and really very much needed, whether it be pension reform, whether it be health insurance reform, after promises very specific, for everyone there is something: here is a mixed candy bar, take a nougat, take a griliah, for we are here for everyone. The fact that the government doesn't even worry about a budget framework in that programming statement that it would try to put these promises into, because they can't fit in, even if it continues to grow 5%, so of course it doesn't have a problem with that, because of course it doesn't even count on fulfilling those promises. She is simply promising something, just as she promised us pension reform and health reform during the last parliamentary term. And we all remember the Minister of Finance Babiš, who stood here and said until June, now I don't know - I'm sorry - I don't know if it was in 2014, or 2015, but in that year he said: I will present my proposal for pension reform to you by June. You've been talking about it for 20 years, and you haven't done anything, we're working, I'll give it to you in June. Since then, we have been waiting in vain and I fear that we will continue to wait, because the only thing the government has done in these fundamental reform challenges, really necessary and connected mostly with prolonging the human age, is to do that it has abolished the first steps that the previous governments have taken. It canceled reform actions in the field of health insurance, abolished the first step in the area of pension reform. No offense if she could put forward an alternative. I'm not saying we were the bearers of the only truth. She didn't submit anything. A What we've heard here doesn't even indicate the shadow of where he wants to go, there's no indication of competence and ability to do something like that. Why should we believe that? What we can believe is that the policy of tightening screws around the person of every citizen and strengthening the repressive role of the state will continue. In this, the previous government was quite successful, and the latest government proposals that we can familiarize ourselves with, whether in work patterns or in the press, whether they relate to the criminal order or the bill of state representatives, suggest that the government will not hesitate to continue in this direction, strengthen the repressive role of the state, and weaken the position of a citizen towards this all-powerful and all-knowing stalking state. That's another reason why this government certainly can't have our trust. What is particularly smiling in the programming statement is that the government promises things that it has abolished. We will read that the supergross wage will be abolished and a 19 percent gross wage tax rate will be introduced. Well that was enacted in 2012, it was in the current legal order in 2012 with effect from 1. 1. 2015. The government canceled. That was already there. We could've used it for four years. The introduction of a single collection point - of course, if the government comes up with it, there is probably no reason to discuss and support it (?) That's because it's already been legalized for our proposal. I don't want to hold you up, but I could go on like this. Just a few measures that were a valid part of the rule of law and which the previous government, in which the YES movement was an important part, which you swept off the table like this and you said: this is all wrong, everything inoperative, so now you promise in this programming statement that you will implement it. And when you do, if you do, which I would like in these cases, and we're happy to help, you'll probably cancel again, because once you've canceled it, then why don't you cancel it again. Then why on earth should we trust you? We don't even have the right to express that trust to our constituents. So these are roughly brief reasons why TOP 09 will actively vote against the proposal for a vote of confidence to the government. If the government gains confidence, we are, of course, deprived of some proposals that do not conflict with our vision and our program, to discuss, we are ready to support them. We are, of course, ready to support the government confidently with proposals relating to our allied commitments in the North Atlantic Alliance and in the European Union, but please, nicely - the government with confidence. If the government does not gain confidence, I assume that it will be limited to the country's day-to-day administration, it will not make serious political decisions with long-term reach, and it cannot be expected that we would support such decisions to the government without trust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. I ask Vice-President Okamura, after him President Chovanec and then Vice-President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD will not vote in favour of the government proposed today, because this government does not plan to promote our political agenda, the ANO movement rejects government cooperation with our SPD movement, and looking at some ministers, this government does not have our trust even in personnel terms. We're not going to use the pretext of an investigation into the Tea čapí here populistly and alibistically. Whether or not Andrej Babiš will be published, it will still be the same Andrej Babiš with everything that had no problem going to the government of the People's Party with Social Democrats. The case, regardless of the details of the investigation, is nothing more than a demonstration of where European subsidies lead - to their abuse by wealthy private firms at the expense of those who are richer than those who have to pay them out of their taxes. It's a monstrous system. And not only does Andrej Babiš participate in this system of subsidies and their abuse, but also all government parties from ČSSD and KDU-ČSL to ODS and TOP 09. When Mr Kalousek here yells at Mr Babiš, he should remember that his friend and chairman, billionaire Schwarzenberg, his government was also tipping subsidies, and when he broke the subsidy conditions, he forgave him for returning the entire subsidy due to errors and irregularities, namely CZK 4.5 million. About the ČSSD and ODS machinators who are behind the machination with billions of European funds, to speak freely. An example is the Northwest Regional Operational Programme, which saves police and where witnesses even publicly admitted that money flowed to party cash registers. Therefore, representatives of these parties should also stand in shame and remain silent. [[12.40 hours]] But back to today's vote on the trust of the minority government of Andrej Babiš. The National Conference of the SPD has given us Members and the Bureau of the SPD only to support a government that will help implement the SPD's programming priorities. To date, representatives of the current minority government, who are asking for the House's trust today, have not agreed with us on this. The YES movement persistently rejects government cooperation with the SPD, although we are ready to promote our political agenda at government level from the first day after the elections and we are ready to make programme and personnel compromises as well. Andrej Babiš is trying to mediate an artificial impression that he is the only one who wants to work on a government level. It's not true. We in the SPD also want to promote the program and work in the government. But the ANO movement rejects us because we are uncomfortable with him. I understand that Andrej Babiš is afraid of us. But the YES movement must realise that it received 29 percent in the elections, so that more than 70 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic do not want Andrej Babiš or the programme of the ANO movement. I also understand that Andrej Babiš wants to rule the Czech Republic alone, without anyone else. But with the fact that the YES movement does not represent nearly half of the population, and not even a third of the citizens, it is necessary to deal democratically. It is simply a democracy that we honor the voices of the citizens that others have received. And democracy is also that if I don't get more than half the votes in the election, then I just have to share the government and allow others to promote the political agenda they promised their voters. I therefore hope that negotiations on the program points of our SPD will continue. And for the citizens of the Czech Republic, I hope that they will benefit everyone, because some SPD programming points have already been accepted by the government in its programme statement, although very neutered, by our negotiations. As I am pleased to see, they are also being accepted by more and more parliamentary parties. However, the most fundamental themes of the SPD movement are still ahead of us. The promotion of real democracy and the fulfilment of the Constitution, the enforcement of a fair state for every decent citizen and the defence of European civilization and the Czech Republic against the invasion of enemy cultures. Of course, I would like to make a little comment on the staffing of the minority government of the ANO movement. If the government wants the SPD to vote for it, then it would be good not to spit in our faces and our voters at least before the vote. If we are unacceptable to you, it is your holy right to refuse us. Of course, we won't tarnish you by linking our names to yours by raising our hand for you. We are willing to negotiate with almost anyone to enforce our program. But it would be good to maintain at least the basic principles of decency that many of you like to talk about. The actions of the representatives of this government are as hypocritical as the cry of a gentleman on December pididemonstration against our international conference of representatives of European patriotic parliamentary parties in Prague, which I can actually briefly quote in this way: "We are fighting for tolerance against the intolerant. And we think you're intolerant, we'll never tolerate." This cry accurately illustrates the unbridled hypocrisy of not just a few mistresses and masters of this government's ministers, but also parts of this House. With the full mouth of democracy, many here have successfully suppressed democracy and citizens' rights for decades. And not just that. They have the audacity to describe themselves as democrats with one mouth, but in the next, they strongly reject any attempt at democracy. I am thinking of strengthening the power of citizens and controlling politicians. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone, and I am also talking about members of this minority government, if any of you call our efforts to promote democracy an extremism or even fascism, it is his personal right to spit and harm. On the other hand, such a person can never and should not ask, let alone wait, for my trust and trust in the SPD. In addition to the great vulgarity, it also indicates the absence of elementary intelligence. And that's not the kind of ministers any of us want. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Please, Milan Chovanec, Vice-President Fiala will be ready if we can make our lunch break. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, I will begin with what I should probably end with, and that is that we will not support this government. We will not support it primarily because there have been no serious negotiations on the support of the Government of Andrej Babiš. If you, fellow Members of the YES movement, really wanted to have a serious debate about the establishment of a government, the agenda would be discussed in depth, about the establishment of this government, about priorities and about many and many other aspects. I didn't hear anything like that from you at the two or three negotiations we had after the election. This government was established on the basis of the ANO dictation, both on the personnel side and on the programme side. The program you're presenting, I called it when the dog and the pussy cooked or baked the cake. So there's something about everyone, which always means no one has anything at the end. Some of the priorities you're talking about. We have witnessed an attempt to introduce the Linen Construction Act for four years in the previous government, and Mr. Took failed. I'm very curious to see if this will go as quickly as Prime Minister Babiš says. To the Czech Post, Mr Prime Minister, through the President. I'd be very happy too if she didn't have to sell insurance and moose. But remember our battles in the previous government about whether or not the Czech Post is to be paid for services to citizens. Those battles ended when the mail wasn't paid in full. And I would like to warn you, and Minister Metnar certainly knows that about a billion crowns in Czech Post's revenue are coming from the sale of insurance, banking services, moose and other items. This means, if you want to remove it from the Czech Post as a service for a citizen, you must pay the Czech Post. It's just not possible otherwise. I would very much like to believe your efforts - and your sincere efforts, as you say - to raise pensions. However, I remember the long battles on coalition councils, where social democracy promoted the growth of pensions. And it was the YES movement, and you, Mr. Prime Minister, in the role of the Minister of Finance at the time, who were fiercely resisting it. And only at a time when it was clear that we would be able to raise pensions to the current level with KDU-ČSL colleagues, did the ANO movement come up with the fact that it was actually their project or your project. Social democracy has also been pushing for years so that seniors and students do not pay on trains. Here, too, we have come across the resistance of the YES movement. Suddenly, it's one of the priorities. I understand that times are changing, but I would have believed that sincere effort, and I see this colleague Vildumetzová here as the captain of the Karlovy Vary Region, if you really meant the fare, you would probably have discussed it at a recent meeting with the county, because we all know, even Minister Took certainly, that the main extent of transport on the railroad holds the regions. I haven't heard one word about it. You came up with it at the last minute. So these county trains aren't gonna be free, or what's it gonna be? It almost seems to me that the theme of the free trains seemed like a cover maneuver, so that all of a sudden the newspapers would be full of it. Nothing more and nothing less. [[12.50 hours]] I would also like to say to you, colleagues, that it used to be a custom - I understand that times are changing, time is changing, politics is also changing, but I think that the fundamental principles and values should remain that when the Chamber of Deputies came into operation, the government was always arguing. You have formed a functional coalition in the Chamber of Deputies. The coalition is called ANO movement, colleagues and colleagues from KSČM and colleagues and colleagues from SPD. So confess to the coalition, and today the government will very simply gain confidence. Just one little thing to do: put two things in the programming declaration you have - leaving the European Union and leaving NATO. There can be a government coalition with confidence. Very simple. For these reasons and for many others and, above all, because we have not seen any sincere effort by the ANO movement to really negotiate a stable government coalition, we cannot support this project. The position of social democracy is immutable. We'll say it in our vote. On the other hand, so that we are not merely and only those who are crashing and saying no, if one day you really think seriously about the debate on stability in the Czech Republic, we are ready for this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. The next is Vice-President Fiala, if his speech fits in ten minutes. If it's longer, I don't want to interrupt... [[He's calling for a longer speech.]] In that case, I will interrupt the Chamber of Deputies meeting for lunch and meet you here at 14.30. Mrs Válková asked me to perform, but she's not in the room. If she's in the foyer, please come to the hall. She has an announcement to the members of the petition committee. If she's not even in the lobby, I can't speak for her. In that case, I shall adjourn the Chamber of Deputies. Meet me at 2:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will begin the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. [[Noise in the whole room.]] . I'm gonna ask you to calm down. Take your seats and we will continue the open debate on paragraph No. 1 of our meeting and this is the request of the Czech Republic to express confidence. Before the lunch break, we finished with the priority word of President Chovanec, and once you calm down and ensure a decent environment for this serious moment, I will give the floor to Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies and Chairman of the ODS to Petr Fial. [[The President is turning to Petr Pural.]] Mr President, just wait a little longer so that you have sufficient attention from your colleagues, including your party colleagues. I really ask the House for peace. If you want to discuss a subject other than the government's request for trust, please, fundamentally in the foyer. Thank you. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u11	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, Members, ladies and gentlemen, I will talk here about three essential reasons for which the Civil Democratic Party will not support this government, Andrej Babiš. I have already personally explained these reasons to the Prime Minister at the meeting before Christmas. I will not talk here about the report of the European Anti-Fraud Office or the ongoing negotiations on the waiver of immunity in connection with the case of the Cape Nest. Not because I consider this matter to be insignificant, not because we might think that it will not affect the functioning of the government and the position of the Prime Minister, of course, will have an impact, but I will not talk about it, because there are other very substantial reasons for which this government will not have the confidence of the Civil Democratic Party. The first reason, a serious reason, I would call it constitutionally-political. The fact is that, on the basis of the President's decision and with his knowledge and blessing, the Prime Minister has assembled and appointed this monochrome government of the YES movement, a government that was not and is not known to have or seek a transparent political majority in the Chamber of Deputies. The fact is that before the appointment of this government, even after the appointment of this government, there was only a formal discussion of the winner of the elections with the other parties. And the fact is that both the President's statement and the Prime Minister's statement from the beginning showed that we were dealing with their attempt to establish a minority government of one political entity, an entity that, although convincingly won the election, did not receive support with less than 30% of the votes so that it could have a monochrome government. On top of that, unfortunately. Unfortunately, because the Civil Democratic Party certainly does not consider it good for the Czech Republic to have no government established and legitimately functioning under the Constitution with the necessary majority. Unfortunately, we have heard public statements from both the President and the Prime Minister suggesting that trust in the Chamber of Deputies for the Government was something perhaps not very substantial, something constitutionally not entirely necessary for the functioning of the government in its entirety, as if the government could normally work and exist without trust in Parliament for some completely undetermined time. I will not use any strong words in this regard. I want to avoid even a hint of anything in my performance that could be considered political invectors. I am convinced that the situation that we are being pushed into here is, in itself, sufficiently worrying and that we do not have to artificially dramatize it at all. This situation cannot be resolved and concerns cannot be resolved by the fact that, after such actions by the President and the Prime Minister, such a government would be given the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. On the contrary, I fear that in such a case there could be very undesirable interpretations of such a decision, as well as undesirable political consequences. I would say that there could be a distortion of power in the Czech Republic. I would like to remind you that, in the democratic history of our Republic, political parties have also received a higher percentage of votes in the elections than they have received in the last elections, and that, in the democratic history of our Republic, Parliament has already been very highly composed in the past in terms of the number of elected political parties. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the democratic history of our Republic does not remember a similar attempt to defend the right to the existence of a government without the support of a majority in the Chamber of Deputies, as is happening after the last elections, or even some kind of automatic obligation for the Chamber of Deputies to hand over the full mandate to rule the minority government of one political movement. I would like to remind you that the democratic history of our Republic does not even remember that on the tenth day following the election of the President of the Republic and the President of the strongest political party would essentially resign to political negotiations and announce the intention to create a monochrome government with a mandate of about 30% of citizens and with the support of only a minority, albeit a very significant minority, in Parliament. And I have to reiterate here in this context that the only source of legitimacy for the government, any government, is the Chamber of Deputies, and that is why we cannot support this government. In fact, this particular vote on the trust of the government we are discussing here will also be a vote on the protection of the rules of parliamentary democracy and on the fulfilment of the Constitution's spirit. Ladies and gentlemen, the second reason for which the Civil Democratic Party will not support the government is that our voters have not given us a mandate to cover the monochrome and even minority government of the YES movement. We have all heard, of course, that before the elections, the Chairman of the ANO movement asked voters for such a strong mandate to form a monochrome government, but the ANO movement did not receive such a strong mandate from the voters, and no political party in the October elections received a mandate for a monochrome government. It is clear to us that a majority government or any politically stable government with a transparent majority can only be drawn up at the cost of compromises, and undoubtedly often large compromises. And that, of course, would apply in any case even without the huge complication that is here and which I mentioned a little bit at the beginning of my performance. I promised three reasons. The third reason why the ODS will not trust this government is the content of the programming declaration. I do not consider it necessary or necessary to mention it here in more detail, so in brief at least so much that we consider it vague in a number of areas, e.g. in terms of reducing red tape, in other areas it is not ambitious enough, e.g. when it comes to reducing taxes and simplifying the tax system, and in some areas as well as for us completely unacceptable, e.g. to continue the grant policy towards the great at the expense of the small ones. Ladies and gentlemen, these were the three main reasons for the decision of the Civil Democratic Party. These were the reasons why the Civil Democratic Party will unanimously vote against the vote of confidence in the Government of Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u12	I thank the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Petr Fial. And since I'm still logged in, I'm gonna ask him for a replacement. I still have Mr Chvojka and Mr Farský after me. Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the replacement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u13	Mr. Vice-President of the House, President of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip, will now speak under priority rights. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, we have a serious constitutional step ahead of us, and that is the decision to express trust to the government of the Czech Republic. It's a thing that's always of a specific nature, and we're talking about not just trust, we're talking about credibility, we're talking about how much trust that's supposed to be a blank check. We are talking about how much this trust will oblige individual members of the government to come forward before the Chamber of Deputies with proposals that form part of the Government's programming statement. I will divide my performance into parts that I could simply call: what is in the government statement is what is not in it, and also - for the first time for the KSČM - what was or was not accepted when dealing with the winner of the election. Finally, I would like to say something that concerns confidence in the various ministers, although this is not the subject of negotiations and voting on the government's trust, but, of course, has a major impact on how the political entity will behave. There are a number of things in the government statement that were related to how many political parties addressed individual citizens of the Czech Republic with their electoral programs in the 2017 elections. We can say that there really have been a number of things that have priority among the citizens that the citizens really wanted, and I am glad to be. I do not blame the government if it has thirty or less pages, but I consider it so whether the government has seen certain preferences of Czech citizens in what is the main problem that burns people. But there are also things that have struck me off because they have been discussed for a long time, which in a way ended in the fact that there has been a compromise in the previous Chamber of Deputies, which, of course, has not yet been completed, given that it can enter into a compromise, for example. The Constitutional Court, and yet again, the government is attempting to present some things in a government statement. I am glad that part of the government statement is what we discussed during negotiations with the YES 2011 movement, and this is a question of a general referendum. This was not in the proposal for a government statement. It is now contained, and I must say that I consider it right. Because it is one of the things that burdens our constitutional system that this institute of direct democracy, although assumed by the Constitution of the Czech Republic, was a part of the Czechoslovak rule before the creation of the independent Czech Republic, there is a general referendum there. What am I missing from the agenda point of the general referendum? The deadline and commitment that this will be a priority for the government and that it will also present it within a certain period of time. Otherwise, we will have to proceed as we did when there was no mention of a revision of the so-called revision in the government statement. Church restitutions, i.e. this gift of state to individual churches. Why do I say that? Because the government's commitment to the referendum bill was also made by the previous government in the Government Declaration in 2014. As it ended, you know, the first time you came in here, and so do we, who are here for a longer period of time. Neither did the Government's bill on referendums. The former government was frightened by Brexit and did not have the will of the Constitution, i.e. Article 2 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, to implement it, and the law on the general referendum was therefore not completed, it was not adopted and it is not part of our constitutional system after 25 years of existence of a separate Czech state. That bothers me, because even the time commitment would be very important to assess the government's statement as a statement that clearly assumes the individual steps of the implementation of the Constitution. There is another commitment that surprised me, and which, truth, is related to the electoral program of the winning YES movement, and that is a change in the electoral system to the Senate. All the more so was the negotiation process, because it is a minority government, a minority cabinet, and this is a matter that requires at least 120 votes from Members of the Chamber of Deputies and at least three fifths of the senators present to achieve something like this, i.e. e.g. The Senate only voted one-wheeled. That's not a normal commitment. We've never had that here since 1996, although it was part of some kind of agreement between 1992 and 1996. And that means something in the history of the Czech Republic. Because we have heard many times, and in the end it was also in the Prime Minister's speech that he prefers a monochrome government with a majority electoral system, but something like that really means a much wider agreement than an agreement at the level of one or two political parties. What really bothers me is that there is an obligation in a government statement that leads to an unequal position of individual ownership forms. The Government undertakes to submit a draft law on the register of contracts in which enterprises in the hands of the State, the public sector will have more obligations and fewer rights than the private sector has. But this is in direct conflict with the Constitution, because all forms of ownership are equal according to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. It therefore makes us wonder whether such an obligation can be fulfilled without amending the Constitution, without amending the Constitutional Article 11, because if we continued in this way and did not give us the opportunity to have equality of property forms, we would have to, as a KSČM, turn to the Constitutional Court and challenge such a law at the Constitutional Court, although we do not expect that we would want to proceed along the way to the judicial state, and we would like to maintain parliamentary democracy. [[14.50 hours]] I am further sorry that there is also, I would say, a commitment from the Government of the Czech Republic that it is willing to send our troops into missions without the approval of the Security Council. This is what we consider to be a step that does not currently lead to maintaining and strengthening peace in the world, because we believe that the Czech Republic, as the legal successor of the founder of the United Nations, is also to contribute to the United Nations' first international political body whose charter and resolution we are fulfilling, is the United Nations and that our soldiers will only be deployed where the decision of the only authoritarian body in the world is the Security Council. The KSČM Club also voted against sending soldiers who did not have such approval and, on the contrary, voted in favour of sending Czech soldiers to those missions where such consent is, because we believe that in the 21st century we cannot gamble with how and how the Czech Army will be used and how the protection of our borders, whether national borders or the protection of the external borders of the Schengen area, will be ensured. We are pleased that the government declaration contains the protection of natural raw materials of the Czech Republic, including water protection. We would not like to see such steps in this parliamentary term that we have seen in the last parliamentary term in the lithium case. And we would also like to avoid getting into situations that then end up in international courts, and the Czech Republic joins in damages, for example. on the matter I would say strangely when I say it a lot diplomatically, privatization and the collapse of Mostecký coal society. And now I could name another one - I'm sorry, I'm not going to be diplomatic anymore - the disgusting cases that followed the 1990s, the beginning of the new millennium in the Czech Republic. What's not there? We called for a real programme for a permanent increase in minimum wage during the negotiations. In order to have a four-year programme for the entire operation of this government, the government of the Czech Republic in this parliamentary term, which would lead to the fact that, as the only instrument that can even in the private sector, we can balance the lower wage level of Czech citizens at high or even high or even higher price levels of goods in the Czech Republic against neighbouring neighbours, so that we can achieve that, when comparing our economy with our neighbouring economies, we would bring our wages closer to us. The general one sentence in the government statement does not guarantee that such a real programme of raising minimum wages as one of the instruments of balancing the social, wage and income levels of Czech citizens will be there. What I consider necessary to say. If the government of the Czech Republic is asking for confidence from the Chamber of Deputies, it should also tell in a credible way how individual ministers will be able to fulfill this specific government statement. We have some experience with those who were ministers during the last parliamentary term under the YES movement. We have no experience with the new ones yet, or from their activities in other departments, or other posts outside the state administration. We have no guarantee that they will be able to carry out the individual tasks that are in the government statement. I know it's not a matter of the Chamber of Deputies. Our system, the constitutional system, allows the Chamber of Deputies to deal only with the government as a whole when they control the government, and therefore does not allow a proposal to appeal to an individual minister, even though in the past some Chambers of Deputies have tried to find such a proposal, or to find such a resolution, and to try to put greater pressure on the Prime Minister to put forward a proposal for the exchange of the Minister of the President of the Republic, whether it was in the early 1990s or at the turn of the millennium. So far, we have a brief experience, and my previous speakers here have talked about it, with the action of individual ministers. Finally, the proposals that have been given to us so far do not give us complete assurance that all those who have been nominated for the government will be able to fulfill the government's statement. This, of course, reduces our confidence in the fact that government statements in those matters that are either very positively recorded for us there or were directly accepted in the negotiations will be fulfilled. In order not to be too long and to take the wind from the sails to those who comment on the individual parts of the programming statement, let me conclude with one little thing. I believe that the Czech Republic deserves a government with confidence in the Chamber of Deputies. It deserves to achieve a certain result quite quickly so that, after the initial peripeties, we are able to do the individual things that we promised to citizens, whether it was in our electoral programmes or in other electoral programmes, to fill them and to keep the Czech Republic between those countries that have not only low unemployment but also have a large degree of development. In order to be able to meet the main objective that is essential for us as a KSČM, this means equalizing the social situation within Europe, comparing the income level of the citizens of the Czech Republic, whether it is from wages or from the social system, with those of the surrounding countries. Since this government statement does not fully meet our intentions and we knew that it would be a compromise, that all our interests could not be fulfilled, so we had to address the question of whether the level of acceptance was already acceptable to the KSČM. From what I said at the beginning, when we sum up what is part of the government statement, what is there, forgive me, dwells, and what is not there shows that the KSČM club cannot be satisfied with the current declaration of the Government of the Czech Republic. But, on the other hand, the negotiations that we have held, the acceptance of some of the proposals gives us the opportunity not only to be prepared for further negotiations, but also to specify better, or to compromise more effectively in negotiations with the YES movement so that the next attempt is more successful. [[15.00 hours]] After the evaluation carried out by the political authorities of our party, the KSČM club accepted the recommendations of our collective body and will oppose the proposal to express confidence in the Chamber of Deputies. But here, when the President has begun his commitments to the next period, we can make a binding promise that we are not only prepared but willing to continue negotiations and compromises that would lead to a better outcome in the future and to a voice of confidence, for example, over the next few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. It is now time for the President of the Chvojka Parliamentary Club with priority rights. After that, the President of Farský will speak. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, it is a few days since we have already remembered the 25th anniversary of the establishment of the independent Czech Republic. A total of 14 governments have been replaced by the heads of our country over the past 25 years. When we look at the exact figures, the thirteen governments that had asked for confidence so far were ten political governments, three prime ministers had a government of experts, or, if you will, a government of experts. Of the three minority governments, only one of them managed, and it was Miloš Zeman's government, to complete its four-year mandate. I need not remind you that this was possible only with contractual collateral from the opposition ODS. The two minority governments that didn't get the trust and mandate, so it was Mirek Topolánek's first government and then Jiří Rusnok's official government. Why do I remind everyone of these facts? Because we have Prime Minister Babiš's request for trust in his government, and at first sight, it is clear to all that this government has nothing to do with any of the governments I was talking about. It's not a political government, but it's a hybrid that's mounted from one third of the officials, and I don't mean that in any way disrespectful to the officials. It is not even a coalition government, because only ministers in the ANO movement jersey are sitting in it. It's not a government that leans on the majority in the House. On the contrary, in its programming statement, it itself declares itself to be a minority government. But it is not a minority government that negotiates tolerance for the opposition. In contrast to the previous governments that I was talking about, the governments of the previous 25 years, the first government of Prime Minister Babiš is a government that is an absolute anomaly. Another anomaly is that for a month now, this government has been known to have the confidence of the House that we are discussing today that there will be no confidence in the House today. And the fact that Prime Minister Babiš will simply throw his first attempt to gain confidence in the trash. I don't want to discuss why the Prime Minister decided to do this or who told him to do it. I don't think it really matters from the House's point of view. What is important is that the Prime Minister's first attempt to gain confidence with his words simply didn't work out, and he already knows he's got a reparatist coming. So how is the House supposed to stand up to that? Are we supposed to discuss the Babišův government's programming statement at all, or should we just wrap it up and say, "That's not gonna happen today, so come back in a month or two, Prime Minister, and we'll see what happens"? I don't think that trust in the government is a serious matter, despite the circumstances I have mentioned, and although the Prime Minister is not acting accordingly, the House has a duty to approach this act in all seriousness. He's just not supposed to pay back the same coin. Therefore, allow me at least a few comments on the government's agenda, which today calls for confidence. One. The government's statement doesn't impress me at all with the program that Babišův's government wants to stand up for. It's more like a compilation of various programs of other political parties that the ANO movement thinks could go through. But this is about as successful a strategy as when a student writes articles and books to his professor in his thesis, hoping to make him happy and get an "A." Unfortunately, or luckily, that's not the case. Secondly, and this is related to the point I was talking about, point number one. The government's statement is completely but completely untrustworthy from a fiscal point of view. It is simply impossible to believe that the government, on the one hand, can reduce taxes and, on the other hand, increase pensions. There is no way to believe that there will be a balanced budget when fiscal measures hidden in the government program mean a decline in the state's income in at least tens of billions of crowns. Three. As an MP, I still have the agony of the government of Petr Nečas, which, with its so-called reforms, has only managed to rattle the state and frighten people. In the program of Babišův's government, the word reform returns to the scene - pension reform, reform of the state, reform of the rule of law, that's what it says. So again, someone wants to start digging into pensions, setting up the social system, and other things. I see this not always positively, not always as a step forward, but sometimes as a huge risk to our state and to people. Four. I think that the government's programming statement should be much more ambitious in the fight against global climate change. This is a huge agenda that is being addressed above all at European Union level, and unfortunately I do not see it in the proposal for a government programme. It's really a big deal. And one final point. In its programming statement, the government claims that it wants to discuss its proposals with the opposition. Yes, a minority government, every minority government requires active cooperation with the opposition and the acquisition of support from other parliamentary parties. In the way he led negotiations, virtually. unfortunately, Andrej Babiš showed us what it would look like in practice. And that brings me back to the basic problem of the whole thing. Untrustworthy is the composition of Babišův's government, its programme, but also its relationship with the Chamber of Deputies, and therefore it does not deserve any trust either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u17	I thank Prime Minister Chvojka. Mr Farský now and Mr Bartoš will be ready. We are still in favour of the preferential rights of club presidents or political parties. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u18	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, dear guests, I would like to explain here for the entire mayor's and independent club without emotion, as far as possible, rationally why we cannot act as public officials bound by the promise solely in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic to give trust to Andrej Babiš and his government. I will not speak here to those who hold the same position. Let me address my speech especially to those who want to speak to the government for a reason. Mutual understanding, or at least an attempt at them, is the real basis of democracy. At the heart of the whole consideration is the fact that Andrej Babiš is not a free man. He can't behave as he sees fit. It cannot act in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic because it is limited both by its past and by its present. As for the past, take, for example, the circumstances of the privatisation of Unipetrol, after which the current supporter Miloš Zeman assessed him with the words - I quote: "As for Mr Babiš, I was a direct participant in the signing of the agreement with him in the privatisation of Unipetrol, and I note that Mr Babiš did not comply with this signed agreement. This is sufficient evidence for me to prove Mr. Babiš's inconclusiveness, despite certain other suspicions that I hope will be investigated in time." So much for the 2011 Miloš Zeman quote. [[15.10 hours]] I don't know what led to the President's change of heart, but the past of the current Prime Minister is still haunting me. It is not just his business activities, but for example. and the leadership in the volumes of StB. His current situation also does not allow him to devote himself fully to the leadership of our country. Just imagine that you and your family are facing up to ten years in prison for what you've basically done, and suddenly you get almost exclusive executive power in the state, you have the power of the police, the prosecutor. Are you going to deal with the digitalisation of the state, the pension reform, the construction of roads at that point? I don't think so. You really don't even think about making sure your loved ones don't spend the next ten years in prison? And, of course, you'll call it injustice, campaign, purpose, manipulation, the mob is after me. By the way, 90 percent of the convicted are convinced of their innocence and that the courts have manipulated something. This is such a great conflict of interest that it is necessary to count on a person in such a situation to take advantage of his position. Who would have put their loved ones in jail and alone hidden for immunity managed the state and not interfered with the work of cops, prosecutors, courts? I don't believe that Andrej Babiš is such a heartless person. I'm sorry, but I just don't trust him. After all, even in far less serious moments, he was no longer telling the truth. Just listen. Andrej Babiš, June 27, 2013 - quote: "I can publicly declare here the health of my four children and two granddaughters that I will by no means interfere with the work of editors in Mafra." And, hey, 2016, in an interview with Mafry Marek Přibyl, he says, "I wouldn't give it right now, I wouldn't let it go until next year," when they were discussing when to publish or not publish material on the former Minister of Health. Now do you understand why I don't trust this person and we can't trust him as starosta and independents? Andrej Babiš himself should acknowledge that he is not a credible prime minister in this situation, if not because of individual cases, so because of their wonderful consummation throughout his entire life. And if he's not capable of this self-esteem, it should explain his surroundings to him. Not Andrej Babiš, but the YES movement is an undisputed winner of the election. After all, there are good people among you who would certainly be able to handle the role of Prime Minister. And if Andrej Babiš himself is not capable of this self-esteem, the responsibility for this act lies primarily with you, members of the ANO movement. I believe that I have explained enough to those who want to listen to why neither I nor any of the Mayors' and Independent Members can today express their trust in Andrej Babiš and his government. I would like the Czech Republic to be led by free people, people who are not haunted by their past, people who do not have unexplained cases in their past. Only single people can follow their principles and not their obligations. Only single people can lead a free nation. I'm sorry, but we can't trust you with the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, Mr Farský. President Bartoš will now appear, Vice-President Jan Hamáček will prepare. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u20	Mr President, Dear Government, honourable Members, guests and viewers on TV or on the Internet, I would like to speak briefly here on the vote on the trust of Mr Babiš's monochrome minority government. Here at the beginning, from the Prime Minister, it was said that they had a working name for this government. I don't know if I've made a good point - "for a better Czech Republic." Well, then somebody can fix me. Maybe I'd call it "government doesn't grieve." I would like to represent here the opinion of the pirate party, the pirate club, and I believe our voters too. And since it makes no sense to start with what was in history, let's see what happened historically from the moment the YES movement was actually elected to the Chamber of Deputies with its strong mandate. I would've pierced three steps. The YES movement in an unconfessed coalition with the help of KSČM and SPD votes took over the most important position in the Chamber of Deputies. It also happened that the agreements on which some members of the ANO movement are based, e.g. Mr. Faltýnek, they don't follow. It was a promise, for example. how committees and committees will be divided. We were given a glimpse - and it was given to all parties - of a working version of the government's programming statement. Yesterday we were introduced a new version and e.g. important anti-corruption measures such as the guarantee of the emergence of legislation, which is intended to prevent political traders, nomination law or e.g. The explicit appointment of ČEZ and Czech Post in the case of the register of contracts was disappearing, so the optimization of this program statement, for example, looked like this before, after the intervention of this red, which disappeared - ČEZ and Česká pošta are no longer in them. [[shows]] I think that in the less than three months we've been negotiating here, it turns out that neither the agreements that are on the grémia nor the agreements that are transparent from the point of view of the pirát - I don't know how you are with the other parties - are respected only when it's convenient. However, the important thing is that I am very skeptical about the government's programming statement, and that is why I called this government "promise not to grieve" that the YES movement and actually Prime Minister Babiš will historically give much to the media presentation of his actions or his intentions, but the actions that are happening do not correspond to that. It is important to recall that the ANO movement was part of the government coalition and members of the ANO movement held ministerial posts in a number of ministries. I would briefly mention here the seven main reasons why the Czech Pirate Party cannot support the Government of Andrej Babiš for factual reasons concerning the historical functioning of the ANO movement in the Government of the Czech Republic, because Mr Babiš was there and did not keep his promises either. We have dealt historically with the issue of gambling in the last parliamentary term, which is certainly an important topic in its stone form. Sociopathological gambling destroys families and households. However, the Prime Minister, or at that time Minister Andrej Babiš preferred the interests of the Czech betting offices, from the point of view of the Pirates really promoted Internet censorship. We made this all the way to the Constitutional Court, he said it was no censorship. The truth is that Mr Babiš himself does not understand why censorship and the suppression of Internet freedom are wrong. Pirates, and that's the second point, they want to deal with cases and not sweep them under the carpet. We've met it several times. They were not different people who were taken to the background when they pointed out some corruption, but a shining example was the rule of the ANO movement in Prague. [[♪ Just ♪]] The YES movement fought against the culprits in the Opencard case, i.e. Mr. Bém and Petr Hulinský of the ČSSD, only to the eye, the Opencard case has been suspended, even though we have prepared complete documentation for the legal solution of the case. We have been working on this for several months, the Prague Councillor headed by Adriana Krnáčová from the ANO movement, and we have handed these things over, and they have promised that they will make it. The case has been suspended, the public has only been excused. Pirates condemn - I believe we are in this together with a number of Members - conflicts of interest and so-called. Little home. The very words of Prime Minister Babiš were that he was in some sort of conflict of interest. De iure no longer leads Agrofert, however, in conflict of interest as prime minister, when the entire government is at this time composed of people close to the ANO movement or people who have historically worked for YES as deputy ministers is problematic. [[15.20 hours]] So now we are talking about a universal conflict of interest, a conflict of interest in agriculture, or a conflict of interest in the health sector, where Prime Minister Babiš does not, according to his historical statements, invests in the fund alone. After all, health care is perhaps the last resort that is subsidized, from which Mr Babiš somehow does not draw money in his civilian business position. There is a fundamental problem for us - and we have been assured here at the plenary that the YES movement will hear those critical views and proposals - as has been happening for the last three months, the negotiations on the programming declaration have certainly been experienced by many Members here in the hall on their own. I would have pierced so much tweaked and so problematic a project, which was the enforcement of an untethered EET. I personally met Mr. Andrej Babiš several times on this matter. A number of experts met with him. We pointed out the shortcomings of the entire project. We criticized that there was no tender for the software supplier. Andrej Babiš then argued that there was no need for it, because the government would develop it itself. In the finals, hundreds of millions of IBM took part in the EET without a tender and for the approval of MMR Karla Šlechtová. Moreover, the EET was completely pointless, it ended up on e-shops. And we learned after it was launched that the Minister is surprised at how many types of business we have in the Czech Republic. Where, therefore, material criticism came from, there was Mr. Babiš in the position of Minister deaf. How would he behave in the role of Prime Minister of this government, for whom he demands trust? Material criticism is often understood - it is not only the domain of the Prime Minister - as an attack. When Andrej Babiš led the Ministry of Finance, he had an expert on the openness of the state administration of Mr. Lukáš Wagenknecht. So, after he discovered the vacuuming of funds from ČEZ by Radmila Kleslová, otherwise the former right hand of Prime Minister Babiš, and subsequently refused to sign the contract without a tender, he was leaving in a very unusual way. On the last possible day under the Service Act he was dismissed from the post of Deputy Professor, he was offered a newsstand, he refused. The most important thing, and this government is very much inclined about it, are the issues of the digitalisation of the state administration. The positive step - the introduction of eGovernment. The YES movement has been in the government for four years, and no visible result in the digitalisation of the government has been enforced in the resorts that it had in its strategy. Therefore, we do not see a reduction in the bureaucratic burden on entrepreneurs, nor has the setting-up of firms been simplified, as has the construction permit. At the same time, Minister Robert Pelikán or Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová could have addressed these challenges. So the hundreds of million-dollar deals that are now taking place with Smart Cities - a very current thing in Prague - are merely a demo of how YES approached historicalally and even now approaches modern technologies. Citizens' money is spent on toys for politicians, for campaigns, for media presentations. I would like to reiterate that, although we agree with the Government's programme statement and also with the YES programme in part, and the implementation of some things is really in the interests of the citizens, we do not believe that the current monochrome government of Prime Minister Babiš has the will to enforce these, just because the latest programming statement and its version have no support in the budget already approved by us. We respect the voter's decision. Andrej Babiš has won the election, and it is now up to him to showcase himself in matters of negotiation. At the same time, we promised voters, and it was part of our strategy that the situation after the elections prevented the pirát from trusting this monochrome government of Andrej Babiš in this vote. That is why the pirate club of the Members in yesterday's meeting confirmed itself in this decision and we will vote against the vote against the vote of confidence in this monochrome minority government of Andrej Babiš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u21	Thank you to President Bartoš. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Jan Hamáček has the floor now. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u22	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, may I also have a few words. At first, I would respond to the Prime Minister's speech, which was extensive, but I found one sentence that concerns our European policy, and that was the sentence that the European Union failed to be a brexit. So I would like to make it clear that I am convinced that the European Union is not responsible for Brexit. Brexit is caused by irresponsible politicians in the UK who scared the British people to death using unfair arguments, and after the decision to leave the European Union has just won, those who have committed it have fled their responsibilities and left the current British government with nowhere to go. And to all the supporters of the referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union, to all those who think that we are not well in the European Union, I would recommend that they watch carefully how the UK does not want to and what negotiating power the United Kingdom has towards the European Union, especially as regards the money to be spent in the European budget. I think that's a big lesson, and we should keep that in mind. But to the point, that means asking for trust. Social democracy cannot support this government. We said we couldn't do it for program and personnel reasons. So let me stop at both of these areas. As far as the program is concerned, we received, I believe, the day before yesterday, the final version of the government's programming statement, which has been completed at the last minute, and the Prime Minister has convinced us here that he is the prime minister of the government, who will fulfill the electoral program of more or less everyone. But I consider it a fundamental problem, because it is nice to choose something interesting from all the political parties' programs and then compile it into a document. But if anyone wants our support, they shouldn't choose priorities for us. We know what our priorities are. We are responsible to our constituents. And we'd like to say what the key is. And it's not about someone telling us: we chose it for you, here you have it, and that's what interests your constituents. Our voters did not vote for the YES movement, they did not vote for the ODS or the TOP 09. They voted in favour of social democracy. And we know what our priorities are. So if anyone wants to convince us that they've actually included part of our electoral program in the programming statement, that's not the way we're gonna get our trust. And if we're going to have a specific conversation, I've chosen one example, and I'm going to try to illustrate how the program statement is sewn with a hot needle, and that's the fare on trains. That's what happened at the last minute. Even the Prime Minister doesn't pretend it's an inspiration from Slovakia. It works in Slovakia; the Social Democratic Government is successful with this. And it's probably a step in the right direction. However, I ask how consistent the YES movement is in this matter, because I am a Member of Central Bohemia. Social democracy in Central Bohemia was then introduced by the so-called student fare. After the election, the coalition of the ANO, ODS and others started and the first thing they did - colleague Kupka will confirm it - the first thing they did was cancel the student fare. And we got the student fare into the program of the current regional government so much that we entered the regional coalition and it was our unconditional condition. This means that I am pointing out here that at the regional level the YES movement was opposed to such reliefs and social measures, but at the last minute they were able to write it in the programming declaration. I could speak further, but I think this one example is quite illustrative. The second reason is the reason for the personnel. I have a bit of a feeling that the colleagues sitting behind me, headed by the Prime Minister, are acting as if they had nothing to do with our joint coalition government. It's like the government fell down a parachute, and what was here before, we don't care. And I'm gonna borrow one resort with permission, but it's illustrative even in the state of the other resorts that were managed by the ANO movement in our government, and that's the defense department. We've been assured here for four years by Minister Stropnický that there's no problem at the Ministry of Defence that our army is modernizing, everything is going according to plan. At times, our opposition colleagues and I criticized that the Ministry was unable to draw out funds. That was booby-trapped. However, we are now in a position to have a new secretary - and I wish her every success - and the first thing she did is to ask for an analysis of whether our army is capable of fighting. So I'm wondering if if everything at the resort is okay, if the first concern or the first analysis the secretary has to do is ask if we even have a fighting army. And it went on, of course. It continued with the fact that the Minister spoke very modestly, and that is such an understatement, he commented on the 3D radar contract that was negotiated by its predecessor, and he had some questions. And then she got into a fight with the chopper selection committee. So these are all the strategic projects that we've been assured are in perfect order, and now the new minister from the same movement obviously has a problem with that. [[15.30 hours]] Obviously, the same could be applied to other resorts. We were assured that now the highways would be built. I ask what the Minister of Transport did there not four, but three years, because he came later. The Justice Resort - Minister Pelikán was not exactly the one who would go to the Chamber of Deputies, he was not often here, and there were some reservations, even given what he promised to bring to the Chamber of Deputies in the past period, and somehow he did not deliver it. I just want to say that it's not about the government starting from scratch, certainly not. The government is carrying some weight from the past. If we look at the various departments in detail, it is evident that the whole series of problems that were, the ANO ministers did not solve at the time, and today they pretend that they had nothing to do with it. In conclusion, it cannot support the government for both programme and personnel reasons of social democracy. If the government does not gain confidence, we are ready to discuss the solution to the situation arising from today's vote. But if anyone is serious about negotiating, then it is necessary for him to take it seriously too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u23	Thank you to Vice-President Jan Hamáček. I now have three priority rights, namely President Bělobrádek, Stanjura and Fiala. Please, Prime Minister KDU-ČSL Pavel Bělobrádek. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear government, colleagues, colleagues, KDU-ČSL will not express confidence in this minority government for a fundamental reason, which is essentially contradictory to what the government is saying here in its programming statement. It says here in the preamble and fundamental priorities that the minority government of the ANO movement is currently a solution that reflects the democratic will of the citizens of the Czech Republic and the current distribution of forces in the Chamber of Deputies. I believe that the political movement that received 30 per cent of the vote is a political movement that does not have a majority. Thus, 70 per cent of the Chamber of Deputies is sufficient for the majority not to have confidence. If 70 percent of the citizens did not vote for this movement, I see no reason why there should be a monochrome government that has not negotiated any support, or at least tolerance. I think this first attempt is useless, we could have forgiven ourselves. I am glad that the President of the Republic has said that in his second attempt, he will want the appointed chairman of the winning movement ANO to have secured majority support. In my opinion, he should have done it by now, we would have forgiven this experiment, which clearly will not pass. I'm sure we just got held up. The majority government should have been here long ago, which is very important for the stability of the Czech Republic. It is a matter that gives stability to both the economic and social situation. For this reason, we see no reason why we should support a minority government, especially because negotiations on the formation of a coalition government, at least during KDU-ČSL, can be counted on minutes, at most 15 minutes in two and a half months. And I consider that sloppy. And I also believe that it is a managerial failure that there has been no negotiation of a majority coalition government that could rule here. I would also like to say that KDU-ČSL has never ruled out a possible coalition with the YES movement. It is not true what many of the YES movements say that we have refused to negotiate and that we have refused to join the coalition with them. We are ready to negotiate, but we have the conditions under which we want to act. I ask that it be respected and that it is always expressed correctly and accurately. I hope that, after expressing distrust of this government, or not expressing confidence in this government, further rational negotiations will begin in order to form here in the second attempt by the majority government, which will have confidence in the Chamber of Deputies, will have a programming statement that looks a little different than when a pussy with a dog cooked a cake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u25	Thank you, Mr Bělobrádek. Now Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, will prepare Radim Fiala. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. I would expect a sharp exchange of views, a clear conflict of coalition - the opposition - to be conducted in the negotiations on government trust. But because of the procedure chosen by the YES movement, it's actually so boring today. We're discussing trust in the government, and we've been hearing about how it's going to be in the second attempt since this morning, and it hasn't finished first. It's a big management failure of Andrej Babiš. We're three months after the election, and we all seem to accept that we're meeting today, we're gonna say something here, and then he's gonna get his 78 votes, and we're gonna go home. The only thing that has changed, and that must be said - the ministry has taken over the ANO movement. The target has been met, the stakes have been conquered. That he's not most? Who cares! The government will do good things! Very often I hear, and now without irony congratulations to the winner of the election, I think he has clearly won the election and we all respect that, an extraordinary result, a unique situation, it has not yet been here. The train journey from Ostrava to Prague is quite long, so I went through the Czech Statistical Office website. The winner of this year's election won 29,64% of votes, excellent result, the best this year. It's the sixth place in the ranking. It meant 1.5 million votes, a lot of votes, respectable, and it's the eighth place in the ranking. Nothing special, it's in top 10, but very close - sixth and eighth place. Let me just remind you - I'd like my colleagues not to jump in. [[Responses to Members of Joseph Hajek.]] I'll say what I want anyway, they won't disturb me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u27	I understand, Mr President, and I really ask my colleagues for peace. When we started this afternoon, I waited at least two minutes, because the first performer always has it difficult after the break, but for you, Mr President, it should be easy for all those who do not want to discuss trust in the government to discuss it in the foyer so that you have a dignified environment. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u28	When we look at the history of parliament in the independent Czech Republic, this composition is closest to the very first. The elections were in June 1992, won by the ODS coalition and KDS, won 29,72 %, meaning a little more than the YES movement this year. It was 424,000 more votes. But at that time, eight political parties got into the House, the other was 14 percent, it was a coalition of the KSČM and the Left Block, I don't know if you're aware of it, but the third on the tape were Social Democrats who won 6.54%. The third on the tape was 6 percent. So there were eight MPs here, a really inexplicable difficult situation, but there was a standard government with majority support. Three sides were government, five sides were opposition. Even this parliament in this politically complex composition was able to prepare and approve the Constitution of the Czech Republic, although there were eight subjects. By the way, during this parliamentary term, the Rules of Procedure were established - that is a remark for President Vondráček, I do not know if he is present here. There were eight pages and there were rules of procedure. Saying there's nine sides, and it's a whole new, extraordinary situation, it doesn't exactly match reality. By the way, the results of the first political party of which Andrej Babiš was a member were much better than the results of his other political party in 2017. I wasn't looking at the archives, but I'd say it was somewhere between 99 and 100 percent. But I don't consider it a free election. The programming statement. I don't think there's any point in having a long debate tonight. It would make sense if there was a minority, majority government here, it doesn't matter, but with majority support in the House, then it makes sense from the opposition parties to analyse the government's agenda in detail, to draw attention to weaknesses, to bring better proposals, competitive proposals, and so on. We've all been waiting here this morning to see what happens today. I read that the Prime Minister said they're going to resign next Wednesday, so next Wednesday or Thursday, new meetings will start. And I don't expect the second government to come up with the same programming statement. I may be naive, but I don't really expect that. [[15.40 hours]] However, if we sum it up in a nutshell, and I have to agree with my previous speaker, Vice-President Hamáček, about 50 per cent of the programming statement is the same as in 2013. This was very upset, Minister Ťok, when I read the wordings from 2013 and 2017, and they are the same. They're exactly the same. Nothing's changed in four years! Not that these are bad things: We will introduce a single rail fare in 2013 and 2018. January 2014 and January 2018. We're gonna enforce a change in the construction law. We'll prepare the Linen Construction Act. It's all true. I would understand if the opposition party had long criticized the government for not doing so. And there's even the personnel union. The same minister writes the same thing. The second 50 percent is the selection of the YES movement from our other programs. There's something there for the Communists, something for the Social Democrats, something for the SPD, digitalization - we'll write it down, it'll definitely address the pirát, something about taxes, it'll definitely satisfy the ODS, so I can continue. One thing is quite clear: Andrej Babiš is ready and wants to rule alone and he doesn't care who. If the Communists give him support, I'll write things from the communist program, if they happen to be supported by the citizens' Democrats, so we'll write something from their program if they want to support us from the SPD, so we'll put something from their program, so I can continue. But the first sentence is important. He wants to rule alone, and it doesn't matter what it says, whether these are outstanding promises from the last parliamentary term or selected points from the political agendas of other political entities. Today, as part of Miloš Zeman's non-campaign, we had a candidate speech that was relatively conciliatory but very surprising. The president says, if things don't work out today, I'm gonna need 101 signatures next time. But why didn't he want it for the first time? I know he didn't say it on the mic here, he told the press elsewhere. But whatever, it's just a formality, we can argue about it. Today Miloš Zeman came to support Andrej Babiš and tomorrow Andrej Babiš has a press conference on the presidential election. Guess who he'll be supporting tomorrow. Political tandem, political alliance, political twins Miloš Zeman and Andrej Babiš work. I respect that. I'm just saying it out loud. Some people feel ashamed of it. I think if someone has political allies, they shouldn't be ashamed of it, they should be proud to report to it. The Prime Minister here spoke of a service law, and I must say that I agree with him very much. There have been many of our words, warnings and risks to the Service Act, and if any government comes up with a reasonable regulation of the Service Act, we will certainly support it. However, I want to say and to remind you that in the framework of the Service Act, which had broad political support, I think, in addition to the Communists, it was actually supported by all the parties in the former House, it is written: The civil servant, following a resolution on the initiation of criminal proceedings for intentional criminal offences or against order in public cases of negligence, will be exonerated until the end of the criminal prosecution. This also applies to private activities of civil servants, e.g. accidents, bodily injury, etc. This man cannot continue to serve as a civil servant, and even if he were to run beautifully in municipal or regional elections, he was elected, this is not the reason and this is not the argument for him to continue the civil service. If any citizen against whom criminal proceedings have been initiated in those matters that I have referred to will become a candidate and would like to join the state service, he cannot do so under the law. So sometimes it bothers me... This does not apply only to senior employees, this applies to every senior employee in public service, and these are tens of thousands. Sometimes it bothers me and sometimes it doesn't matter. And the YES movement says, "There were elections, voters knew everything, they decided." The President has spoken about this today, and I rarely agree with him, but I agree with him on this, so that we don't play investigators, prosecutors, defense attorneys or judges. I totally agree with him, and I think that those words were directed in particular to the YES movement, which became specialists in investigations, defences, sometimes even convictions. I found that the former failed Minister of Justice, unsuccessful because her own movement replaced her, Helena Válková is now the one who decides to publish or not publish Andrej Babiš. Very often I hear from Members and Members of the YES movement: It will matter what the Professor says, as the Professor does. So the professor is such a self-judge for the YES movement, judging the evidence or not. The Prime Minister says he doesn't see the link between today's vote and his prosecution. Well, we can clearly see the connection. And I was talking about it when we were discussing the program this morning, that it would be a lot more logical for the House to decide first whether or not to interrupt the prosecution. For us, I say that we are in favour of publishing both Members without saying strong words, whether they are guilty or not, this is really only a matter of independent courts in a democratic state. But that this is a huge burden for the Czech Republic, for the government and for the Chamber of Deputies, is evident. We've just been, or we're witnessing a dance like this around the OLAF report. We, who were here in the last parliamentary term, remember at that time when they acted as an enrollment of a member of the ANO movement after another and said, If only the police had waited for the OLAF report. And why isn't OLAF's report here yet, is the police's request here yet? It's weird that they didn't wait for OLAF. Then Olaf comes and we hear again: Well, that's kind of weird about OLAF. What did they say? Well, we can't. Then the Ministry of Finance makes fun of us - I appreciated their linguistic ingenuity, how to hide under the Czech word "irregularity" concealing information, providing false information, possible fraud. I put emphasis on the word "maybe." Of course, I don't know the message, and I don't know why I don't know it. Then, in my opinion, the Ministry really, I don't know what I would call it, I won't comment, it will publish the accompanying letter and it says very seriously: According to Law 106, we published what we were able to publish, so that the newspaper from the holding, which once belonged to Andrea Babiš, was already a fairy tale, they wrote: We looked into it and there was no such thing. Then when other journalists say it's there, the same newspaper from the same holding says, "That wasn't the intention, it was just the journalists who worked really fast, they read it wrong somehow. So the fact that we are having a serious debate today about the real programming objectives of this government is simply not true. It's kind of a shadow theater, but the stake has been conquered, the ANO movement has taken over all the resorts. When I think about it, I don't know what motives lead the winners of the election, running head-on against the wall, pretending that it's nothing, as if we voted every day in the House on trusting the government, and what motives lead to it, so it's no government for a better Czech Republic. I'm sure she'd have earned that trust by now, and then it would have been legitimate... and it doesn't matter if it was minority or majority. We'll see if he'll gain confidence or not in a few hours, but according to all the other political parties' statements, there's no chance. So maybe it's an attempt to prevent the release of Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek. Then it would give some logic, these politically senseless steps. Very often I hear, we hear what the programme proximity of the ANO movement and the political and electoral programme of the citizens' democrats is. So if you look at the program statement, it's just not true. Okay, let's say it's very general, and we don't know exactly, but we filed the first six bills, the monochrome government of the ANO movement five out of six expressed a negative position, once neutral. So much for the alleged program proximity. I'm going back to the beginning. Andrej Babiš wants to rule alone, only looking for some volunteers who will allow it. If it doesn't work out today, he'll try it next time. We, as citizens' democrats, will not accept that. There was no honest effort to find majority support. Let's see what the next development will be. [[15.50 hours]] Today we will vote against the vote of confidence in this government. I think winter, as we originally said, is too long. Winter ends in March and the government of demise ends on January 17th, according to the words of Andrej Babiš today. But to be positive, I think even ministers who, for example, won't be in the next government - maybe all of them will be there, I don't know, but if they weren't there, they could say that they were members of the government in 2017 and 2018. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u29	Thank you, Mr President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjur. Now chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala. And we will continue with the duly registered Mrs. Věra Kovářová. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u30	Thank you. The outcome of the elections held in October 2017 was characterised by a clear victory of the ANO movement. And it was a victory far away from other political parties. This political situation brought about a new situation with which the election winner had to deal. The situation includes a greater number of political entities in the House. It must be stressed that, however, the clear victory of the YES movement was not an absolute victory. The result was not as dominant as the historical results of the former political hegemons of the Czech political scene. But it was the result that gave a clear mandate to negotiate on the government, and in my view it was very right that the YES movement was given this mandate to negotiate on the government. Today we will find out what ANO has done with this mandate. And we'll find out from the outcome of today's vote on government trust. For our SPD club, I can say that we will vote against the government's trust, and I will now try to give you a brief statement of some of the reasons that led us to this. First of all, it must be said that the idea of creating a government based on the idea of "I will rule alone and the only guarantee for you will be for your support that I will write something from your program into the government's programming statement" is an unacceptable procedure for us. The government's programming statement also changed to the last moment. It was being processed and discussed in a way that literally devalued its political weight. We have great distrust of this way of political action. This mistrust is justified because some of the things contained in the last government's programming declaration have not been fulfilled by the end of this government. This means that it is very untrustworthy for us, and we are once again afraid of such a situation. It is above all a question of a general referendum. We want a general referendum that will enable citizens to speak on fundamental political issues. And we want a guarantee that it won't be a dysfunctional model similar to the one created by the Social Democrats with Minister Dienstbier in the last government. The programming statement is constantly changed and made up by putting a little bit of political value in this statement for everyone, I repeat. The second major issue that we have addressed in this government is the staffing of some ministries. We cannot support ministers who are not professionally enough, we cannot support ministers who mediate matters that are in conflict with the government's programming statement. And the SPD cannot support ministers who are releasing insulting speculation about the nature of our movement into the media. The last problem that we have dealt with and which, in my opinion, needs to be mentioned here is the problem of the Chapi Nest case. It must be made clear that the current state of the case creates a situation that needs to be unlocked. We did not have the opportunity to get to know the case in more detail in the past period. However, from what we know today on this matter, two fundamental things are obvious to us. First, in the case of the Capi Nest, funds were spent in a way that was probably not entirely in line with the purpose of this subsidy program. And secondly, the entire case is being used in addition to an objective investigation for political manipulation. In my opinion, there are politicians who seem to have better access to information than others. And there are also politicians who have super-standard access to the media with this above-standard information. I want to make it clear that the next government of the Czech Republic cannot be burdened by the uncertainty as to how this case will be dealt with, and there must be a very clear conclusion in this case that will allow the investigation of the cause and compensation of damage if it turns out that this damage has been caused to Czech citizens. Our movement does not renounce responsibility for solving all these problems in a possible second attempt to form a government. In this case, we are again ready to act in a factual and constructive manner in the interests of the Czech Republic. We are ready to deal again with the election winner, i.e. the YES movement. We are ready to deal with all other relevant bodies in the Chamber of Deputies. We are ready to negotiate with Mr President and, of course, we are ready to discuss the promotion of our programme objectives with the knowledge of the need for political compromises. But our willingness to act is, I repeat, limited. We have our program points for which we will not back down. And I've also mentioned clear problems that need to be solved. For us some problems of personnel and political problems that would allow the government to actually rule and not only lead a permanent election campaign on the topic of the Capi Nest. If anyone claims that the SPD is politically extreme, I would like to remind you that one of our European political partners is Austria's Free Party, which is now part of the Austrian government coalition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u31	I thank Mr Radim Fial. We will proceed in the debate with Mrs Věra Kovářová. Mr. Vít Rakušan will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u32	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear government. Your government approved on 8 January the government's programming statement, which contains some very interesting points. These include, among other things, several areas covered by the amendments of the Mayors and independent of the state budget for 2018. They concerned an increase in the capacity of kindergarten schools. There were increases in grant titles for the restoration of cultural monuments or increases in the salaries of teachers. Of course, none of the members of the ANO movement voted for these amendments. And so I'm going to open a programming statement that I'm writing, and, world, wonder what I'm not looking for. The programme statement of the monochrome government contains e.g. extension of the capacity of kindergartens through national grant titles. Care for cultural monuments and increase in teacher's salaries. And as I'm flipping, I'm thinking, well, that's fast, how fast somebody's changing their minds. Our amendment to increase the allocation of the subsidy programme to extend the capacity of kindergarten schools was unanimously rejected by all members of the ANO movement. At the same time, it was only 400, respectively. 300 miles. Crowns. We wanted to help municipalities to make it easier to meet the obligation of kindergartens to receive children aged two years from 2020. Of course, it would also bring them some costs and make it easier for the parents of the little children. [[16.00 hours]] Anyway, I'm thinking, even the carpenter's master will shut down, and I'm making a statement to the government. And I will come across another commendable planned act of government, and that is the creation of a program of long-term financing for repairs and reconstruction of conservation facilities. And I must ask again why, for cultural monuments, a few government MEPs have not already done something for the 19th December when approving changes to the state budget for 2018. I'm looking at the MPs and leaving it unanswered. Even in this case, it was not an excessive sum, but only CZK 300 million for almost 40,000 cultural monuments. I continue to look at the government's statement - and the government seems to be finding a solution. It plans to revise the central list of cultural monuments and protected areas. So I ask what the purpose is, and I answer myself. Someone probably thought we had too many underfunded cultural monuments, which is true. But I guess somebody also said that the fewer there are, the less funding will be needed. From an official's point of view, it's an elegant to Solomonian solution. There's only one slight flaw that won't help the sights. And we keep browsing, and to make matters worse, I'm referring to Prime Minister Babiš's proposal to raise teachers' salaries. What a surprise! Of course, this step is necessary and necessary, investment in education and in the future are the most necessary for future generations. Our children need to have access to quality education. These are only capable of ensuring quality and well-founded teaching staff, which, of course, must be adequately assessed financially so that they do not go to the private sector. However, this point could already have been implemented in 2018 if the members of the ANO movement voted in favour of the proposal by the Mayors and the independents who proposed an increase in the salary of teachers. ANO members rejected not only our proposal, but also other proposals aimed at increasing the salaries of pedagogical workers. So to sum it up and underline it. It's almost starting to look like the government MPs have been through a total transformation in less than a month. People are still the same at first glance, but their priorities have changed completely. Can we believe that? If words don't match actions, it's not very credible. And that's true in this case. However, if there is any other explanation for these scenes of opinion, I would be happy to hear it from Prime Minister Babiš. Now it's time for a little seed bead. Just so I don't criticize. In the original draft programming statement, the Prime Minister declared for the Government that he wanted to adjust the system for issuing driving licences and to allow the driver's licence to be processed even outside his residence. The idea is very nice, I appreciate it. There's only one flaw. I was impressed by my colleague Farský years ago, and so we, together with the other MPs, have already passed the amendment to the law which introduces these measures in the last parliamentary term. Yes, in the new version of the government's programming statement, this, let's call it a typo, has been corrected and refined so that all this will be realized, which we would expect from the reigning government, of course, to implement and comply with the laws already in force and effective. But I guess there's nothing left to do but rejoice in the little things. This government, which is asking for confidence, has not yet gained it, and I think that it is losing its trust by what is in the programming declaration. We consider the government's statement to be untrustworthy, and therefore we also consider the government to be untrustworthy, so we will not support the government. So much for the ending. And then I'd have a private question for the Prime Minister. He asked if we had read the government statement. I'll admit I've read both variants. And I wonder how and why, for example. the proposal to reduce value added tax to cut flowers found in the government statement in the first variant and what led the Prime Minister that the cut flowers were removed from the new government statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr. Rakušan. In the meantime, however, I see an application for a factual remark - Mr. Mr. Zlesák? But I don't see him here, so it's probably a mistake. We will give the floor to Mr Rakušan, who will be next for Mr Feri. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice-President. The Government of the Czech Republic, Prime Minister, we have heard many and many words here today. I'll try not to delay my speech. I will try not to comment on the individual items of the programming declaration. I would like to think more about the vote we are facing. It is not one of the series of ordinary votes when we press the yes button, no, abstained. We're declaring trust today. And it's good to even think about what that concept, the word trust, means. The word trust must be based on some values. He must rely on respect for whom we trust. Of course, trust in itself contains a certain faith. Faith that the one we trust, whether it is in personal or political life, will not disappoint us and will lead things in the right direction. I would stop by here at Snyder Snyder's words, an American historian and writer who, in his book Tyranny, has 20 lessons from the 20th century, talks about what we should be careful about at any moment when a new government Garniture comes in, when a new force comes in, which often comes with rapid ideas and very radical changes. First, Snyder Snyder warns that we should avoid the state of one party. We should always be cautious if politicians start talking about the fact that one side, the pure-blooded government of one side, is better than a coalition form. That we should be careful when one party suddenly starts taking rapid personnel steps in the administration and its surroundings. That we should always be careful when one side tells us that it is easier to rule if the government is composed of only one and only power. That's Snyder Snyder's paraphrase, please. In the second point, he points out that we should always be very sensitive when a new government guarantee starts attacking existing and existing institutions when they start questioning their mandate when they start questioning their legitimacy in society. Since the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, we have already met that the Senate's role in Czech constitutionality has been questioned. Since the elections, we have encountered the fact that even in connection with the case of Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek the work of the police is being questioned, the work of the state prosecutor is being questioned and the work of the courts can often be questioned in the end. So I'm going back to the beginning of my speech. Despite some certain reasonable points in the programming statement, despite the above mentioned government trust - that is the intimate relationship, if we trust someone, we trust them - does not deserve it. And then again Timothy Snyder says, "Don't submit in advance, don't give up on someone who seems strong and insurmountable at the moment, who comes up with the idea that he will rule and he will do it best." Don't give in to yourself right away. Do not accept his words as a dogma and try to act in such a way that his government is not unlimited. We do so, which is why this government will not receive our trust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u35	Mr Feri will now appear, and then Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u36	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, dearly patient guests at the gallery and, Prime Minister, I think that the government that is asking for our trust here today is indeed a government of experts, but unfortunately of PR experts. Because both their government statements and recent government performances, what they will do and what they will do, are a great and exemplary marketing project. A great project, but all the more dangerous, because there is demagogy behind it, how democratic institutions restrict their work and desire to work. An example is the recent statement by the Minister of Justice Pelikán, who wants to reform the prosecutor's office. By the way, they're going to mention that it also brings about a re-compete of their places, which is just a little detail. But as we know, the devil is hiding in the details. Probably every working person will be alerted when his place is to be recompensed when he threatens to be replaced. He'll start working harder, but especially so that he doesn't irritate anyone. He's going to be subject to auto-censorship. At the same time, the D.A. isn't supposed to be servil and non-conflict. On the contrary, his role is active, which inevitably carries conflicts and clashes. It is intended to defend public interest, both to the detriment of the accused and to the benefit of the accused. This is where we really get into some management culture where the minister installs the Pelikánův's sword over the heads of prosecutors. Some will certainly come up with the fact that nothing is really going on, but we are merely continuing to reform the justice system, when the term of office of the Presidents of the courts was set about ten years ago. It is similar, but not the same. In particular, a different role is the role of the President of the courts, who, on the one hand, play an important role in the administration of the courts, but in the case of the prosecutors, we have a system of leadership and subjection. To put it simply, contrary to the President of the Court, who can't do what he has to do or what he shouldn't do and how he should judge, the head of the prosecutor can do so. The D.A.'s superiors can take the lower case away. This is not possible in the system of courts, so that the court of a higher instance removes the case of a lower instance. From this example, there is a clear difference in the models of independence of the judiciary and the independence of the prosecutors. The reform of the D.A. may be irrelevant, but it is supposed to be a thoughtful improvement in the system, not a hidden threat, which by chance is missing at the time of the meeting of the mandate and immunity committee on the extradition of Prime Minister Babiš and the Chairman of the ANO 2011 Faltýnek club for prosecution. I'm afraid, and that's the point of this speech, one thing. I fear that the Minister of Justice of these at first sight of small changes is going to use the government's head of state to subjugate. And also to be obedient. These are exactly the steps. Small, inconspicuous, which we hardly really notice, which we can go to where it happened in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention and I would like to conclude by wishing you every success in the new year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. With a factual remark, the Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to turn against this. Ladies and gentlemen, if the principle of the new State's Attorney's Act, as it was written a long time ago at the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, is, or maybe it will be, for the fourth time, submitted to Parliament, the selection procedures and terms of office for the heads of prosecutors, it is quite logical that it is not possible for those leading prosecutors not to compete at the same time. It was already in the proposal when it was submitted by Minister Pospíšil. It was in him when Minister Blažek presented him, it was in him when I presented him to the last House. Whether or not this will happen will not be decided by the government, but will be decided by this entire House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. Mrs Pekarová Adamová is now enrolled in the debate, followed by Mr Jurečka. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u40	Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, all of us, as we sit here, have been running under some program, with some priorities, visions, solutions to specific problems. TOP 09 presented a competent programme that is built on solving specific problems, based on values, focused on the future. And we are sure that, in particular, we need to start modernising Czech education, that we need to focus on teaching children in schools to learn the really important things so that they can think critically and apply their knowledge so that they can work together and stand up in a globalised world and be able to meet all the challenges. We are aware that it is therefore necessary to invest in Czech education, not only in the salaries of teachers and other workers who are in it, but also in the modernisation of teaching methods. We want us to say that we are a truly educated society and that our future is closely linked to this because we realise that it is the only way that it can be prosperous, resilient to all challenges. And that's the only way we can all succeed as a whole. Of course, we don't forget the health care, we don't forget the country's administration. We want a slim state that will serve its citizen, will not unnecessarily bully him, anything that can be dealt with from the comfort of home, electronically via mobile phone, through applications that modern technology already allows. Of course, this includes the rule of law, it includes all-generation friendliness, whether they are the young ones I mentioned, for example, in the field of education, but they are also seniors, whether they are disabled. There is a need for pension reform, and so have many said. We've been saying this constantly for years, we've prepared one, and we're ready to discuss it in the future. We realize how a time bomb our pension system can be in the future. We don't forget to protect the environment either. We are really devoted to this a significant part of our programme and the TOP 09, I dare say, is one of the most competent parties in the current Parliament in terms of ecology and various, let's say, concrete measures that we offer. Nor do we forget families, family and professional life balance, that we must make the labour market much more flexible, that we are facing many challenges in this area today, and that we want, for example, parents of young children to have the opportunity to arrange their own lives in order to reconcile their responsibilities with their profession. We also want a reduction in the contributions. This is also an area that is in our program, and it is very clear and pregnant to say how much and how it will specifically help people to increase their net wages and really feel it in their wallets. And even if I kept going, I could really go a long way, and I could describe the different programming priorities, if I could find everyone on the spot in the government's programming statement, which is running for trust today, that is not enough in itself. Indeed, there are specific people behind it, whether it be the Prime Minister, also ministers, and of course you, the members of the government party, must all be trustworthy. That is why we are asking ourselves today who is actually worthy of our trust, what is central to each of you in giving your trust. [[16.20 hours]] Trust comes from a word of faith. So by giving up trust, we express who we trust. In general, we can certainly say that whether we trust someone or not, we can conclude not from what they promise us, what they say they will do in the future. We don't have anything to check that out yet. That's why we judge a person by their past actions. Trust is mostly worthy of the one who has proved it by his previous deeds, who has not failed so far, in his actions, that he can be trusted, that he does not lie, he fulfills the word that his words are in harmony with his actions. That he is able to stand morally, humanly, in relation to the work he has done, etc. We, Members of Parliament, are now faced with a decision on whether to give confidence, in particular, to the Chairman of the ANO movement, who has assembled the government, Andrej Babiš. He has asked us today for trust on behalf of his colleagues and his ministers. It's about our trust. The ministers and ministers certainly trust Andrej Babiš, otherwise they would not go to his government. They wouldn't link their name to her. They have already made it clear that Andrej Babiš believes that they are identified with his previous actions, virtually. If they are not in harmony with any of his actions so far, it is such a small obstacle to them that they are willing to overcome it that it is not a great burden for their conscience. Fair enough. It's up to them, of course. They have to be able to defend themselves that this is the case. Surely no one can force anyone to be in the government, they are in it voluntarily, from the beginning with regard to everything about Andrej Babiš so far known. I wondered if Andrej Babiš deserved to be trusted, whether he was worthy of trust, or trustworthy. I want to make an honest assessment based on everything I know about the Prime Minister. To be honest and fair to Andrea Babiš, unbiased, without prejudice. So I chose a few of the publicly known facts about Andrej Babiš, who personally play a vital role for me. I'd call it a trust test. Probably like when someone asks for security clearance and has to submit to their present life to a detailed assessment. Of course, I want to tell you what I have come to, because I'm sure many of you have quite similar claims on others if you want to trust them. In my opinion, then, the ability to trust someone is crucial to whether he has ever lied to you in the past. Whether he's telling the truth. I remembered several examples of Andrej Babiš's public lying. Remember, when he bought Mafru in 2013, he claimed, and it is enough to find it on Googl in just a few seconds, and then play it from the record that - quote - he can publicly declare to the health of his four children and two granddaughters that in no way will he ever interfere with the work of editors in Mafra. The lie turned out pretty soon. Already in the famous phone call to the Lidové noviny, but also later thanks to the recordings we learned that he consulted with the editor of his newspaper Mladá Fronty DNES when to publish the report. Another public and proven lie was made during the last parliamentary term when he first claimed that he did not know who the stork farm belonged to at the time of the grant application. He said it was gonna be some lawyers. But then, after writhing, he decided to go out with the truth and confessed to the counter that they were close family members. One could continue with evidence of lying, such as an example of relatively recent, last week, when he lied openly to the media and claimed that the YES movement in the previous government was opposed to increasing the salaries of bus drivers, and it turned out from the government's record that Members, respectively. YES ministers voted in favour of this proposal. Even in Sobotkův's government, they were in favour of an increase. However, even this small sample, I think, clearly confirms that the lie is one of Mr. Babiš's usual equipment. He plays very creatively with the truth, euphemistically speaking. It brings out all kinds of things in me, just not trust. You can say that you can forgive a more serious misstep that anyone can do in life. But lying to such a format repeatedly, I can't think of it as an extraordinary excess. Rather, it refers to the uncovered use of lies as a common tool. Another test of trust is for me a thing that many already take for granted today, and they have accepted it, but I do not consider it normal. Andrej Babiš does not actually play fair in politics from the very beginning, because he bought a substantial part of the media in parallel to joining politics. He thus gained a clear competitive advantage for his continued involvement in politics, some kind of doping. As I mentioned a moment ago, it has been shown that it is actually using the media in its favour. Even if he was relying on journalists' self-censorship, it points to not even as clever as cowardice. Inability to take criticism. Make sure that investigative journalists are afraid of him. He's pointing to fear that there's something to be learned from his past, that there's something to hide and hide. This does not inspire confidence in me again, and I expect honesty from politics. Just as when an athlete strengthens himself with doping, his performance cannot be considered to be respect for fair play rules compared to others on the starting line, nor is the need for a politician to cripple the media market for help, for me it is not evidence of fair play. If influencing the media is something completely unacceptable in Western-cut democracies, then the abuse of political power to weaken, cripple, or even complete destruction of competition is something that is unacceptable in any legal state. It has never been accepted in our country before, and it should not be today. You may not be sure what I'm referring to right now, but it is a hedge order to FAU Přerov, which the state authority - I repeat, the state authority, i.e. the Financial Administration - has, according to an independent court, liquidated illegally by means of freezing orders. And as we know from the recordings depicting the words of Andrej Babiš about the fact that - I quote: "Our people have been on their knees" it is a clear abuse of his position, which Babiš has committed. The case has covered the dust, but I believe it is necessary to mention what the Prime Minister is capable of as a reminder. It's a documented and proven case, but we don't have the certainty that it's the only one. Even if there was only one, it wouldn't be much to inspire trust at the time. I don't think there's any point in continuing with the examples, even though there's a lot more to be said. I have chosen these three on purpose and reminded you, too, who today may have focused more attention on the ongoing prosecutions and investigations conducted by the police, as well as on OLAF's report. These, too, are certainly fundamental issues, but the three mentioned facts are documented, all of them can verify them and are difficult to question. And it is also difficult to doubt that they would not be linked to Mr Babiš's political actions, or to the last four years when he was a politician. Every politician must be prepared today and daily to fight for people's trust. The Prime Minister is not only about the trust of our Members, but especially of citizens. If he's taking counseling to help, it's all right. But if he takes to help the media that he buys, whether it's newspapers or radios, television, it doesn't matter, cripples such a substantial part of the media, those watchdogs, as they're supposed to be called, then it's not a fair competition anymore. Each of the problems in itself would then be enough to put watchdogs not only into loud barking but also into the hunt, and at the end of it at any time before 2013 would be the end of such a policy for each of the individual cases I mentioned. It is important to remember this, so that perhaps we do not begin to consider the silence of a substantial part of the journalistic community as something that is normal. People usually think clichés don't want to touch other people's consciences. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not afraid to say that I, on the contrary, want to touch your conscience. Tell yourself whether you have the conscience, the most precious thing you have, your honor, pride and trust desire, to connect with a person who has failed so fundamentally and repeatedly. Whether such a person deserves your trust. Whether you want to share in the fact that maybe up to four years we will meet with lying, abuse of power, and enrichment at the expense of others. [[16.30 hours]] I personally do not trust Andrea Babiš, which is why I cannot give him and his government confidence today. I believe that values like the truth, honor, morality, are not dead. And they're not empty terms. That's why I won't let them walk on them to disappear. To be trampled into the ground by some who wish it. I will not be discouraged by the fact that almost 30% of voters may not have played such a role. I will not be discouraged by the fact that they may no longer be fashionable for some. I will not give my trust to this government, just like all other members of the TOP 09. Consider whether you, each and every one of you, are able to give it with a clear conscience and also take your share of responsibility for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. Before Mr. Jurečka comes to the speaker's desk, I'll introduce you to an apology. Martin Stropnický, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, apologizes for business reasons from today's meeting between 16:00 and 17:00. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u42	Good afternoon. Mr President, dear colleagues, before I start my speech, allow me to give a procedural proposal to interrupt the negotiations on this point until the Prime Minister and most of the members of the government are present, because I think that, while we are discussing the trust of the minority government, this involvement of the members of the government is undignified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u43	Yes. We have received a procedural proposal, which we will vote immediately. [[Member Jurečka: To interrupt the hearing, sorry.]] I beg you, Mr. Ambassador, to repeat your procedural proposal one more time, so that it is clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u44	The procedural proposal is to continue this point when the Prime Minister and at least half the majority of the members of this government are present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u45	Yes, it's clear. There's a motion to check out. I'll check you all out. I beg you all to re-enlist with your ID cards. We will wait until the number of Members and Members is settled. [[After a while.]] Now, I think the time has been sufficient, so we can proceed with the vote. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting number 4, 143 Members registered, in favour of proposal 54, against 60. The motion was denied. We can move on. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u46	Thank you. Mr President, I would ask that there be peace in the hall if you can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u47	I ask all Members of Parliament to remain calm in the Chamber. Only Mr Marian Jurečka has the floor. Ambassador, please continue your performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for your attention. I would like us to have a really serious discussion so that there is, as far as possible, a dignified participation. The Prime Minister just heard from me here. In half a whisper, he said, "They're desperate." I really do not think that the debate in the House on vote of trust is a debate of desperate people. We are Members here, and we have the same mandate that we are to exercise here. Now allow me to perform. Because the President was here, and because, as he justified his progress on the second round, the second mandate to draw up the government to demand 101 signatures, I'm taking his performance today, too, and that he didn't have that condition before, that his participation here and that speech tonight was part of his campaign or non-campaign, as anyone would like. And I'll take a brief comment. I should like to begin by saying that I am very pleased that the President has left out the words that begin at k from his dictionary. He left out words about the government's experience-- etc. So I appreciate it. Really, though. Some of the words and parables from the President have been used here. He said that 80 percent of local politicians who are accused of having any doubts about drawing up grant titles, that these charges were dropped or unproven in court. I would like to say that this has nothing to do with Andrej Babiš and not with the hnízdo of Cap, because it is not a story of municipal policy or a subsidy that goes to the village or town or to the region. I would like to quote here one very strong statement from one important Czech policy for the last twenty years. "For politics, not the presumption of innocence applies, but unfortunately for him the presumption of guilt applies. So if a politician is in any suspicion, even though it would be more stupid, I think it is his duty to resign if someone takes this suspicion seriously," said Miloš Zeman in April 1998 on Press Club Frequency 1. It was just before he became Prime Minister of this state, at a time when he was talking about action Clean hands etc. However, I would also like to see the President explain to us some time in the future why he did not want the condition for the first round that whoever is in charge of drawing up the government should prove before being appointed Prime Minister that he has support for at least 101 votes. I think not only the Chamber of Deputies, but also the Czech Republic and the citizens of the Czech Republic, because we have wasted three months here, that is, one sixteenth of the term of government, which was to rule and rule here. In conclusion, I would like the President to hold to the fact that the amnesty for Jiří Kajínek was the last one that either he or in this term of office has granted, so that there is no chance of solving the case of the Chapi's hnízdo through the amnesty, as there are rumors in some circles. Let me now comment on the issue of government confidence and the programming statement that we have on our benches today, so that I speak to Prime Minister Babiš and this government. I would probably start by saying that on page 20, please, you can open it up and read it with me, in the chapter Law and Justice: "We consider the idea of a rule of law based on respect for constitutionally protected principles of division of power, rule of law and protection of fundamental rights and freedoms as a key value of our social arrangement. We will respect these principles in all our steps and further strengthen them." I would ask here that the members of the government continue to express themselves in the debate. I ask nicely if the Minister of Justice Pelikán, Minister of Finance Schillerová and Minister of Culture could be directly able to express how they voted and argued at the government's meeting today as regards the Communist proposal for revision and taxation of church restitutions. Because these things and such entry into legislation and into things that are anchored by the treaties between the state and specific entities are a very serious threat that the Czech State can be called the rule of law. I'm sure you lawyers understand me a lot better. So I would ask that the members of the government be able to comment on what they have to say about this and what risks, if possible, if such legislation were to be adopted, could mean for the Czech Republic. [[16.40 hours]] Furthermore, when we look at this document, on page 7, there is such an interesting text down on that page: "We are going to stick to the principles of transparency in decision-making on subsidies and public procurement. " There are many of you who are municipal politicians who perform the authorities of the general government, you are company owners here, you are company directors here, that is, people who have come into contact in the past with the issue of drawing subsidies from both national and European sources. And many of you know very well what a minor violation of the rules means. Just one more day to miss the deadline, the whole subsidy can be ruined. As Minister of Agriculture for the last four years, I have experienced situations where small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have made fair meaningful projects and, on the basis of a completely minor error, to comply with the rules to be applied to all, and the equality of all applicants for these subsidies I had to reject their requests for exceptions with a heavy heart. So I'd like to have a clear right here, and what you're saying in your programming statement is that it applies in practice, because one of the key things that we're talking about here is why we're not talking about the majority coalition government anymore is the issue of criminal prosecution in the case of the Chapi Nest. And I think that if a man has nothing to hide, he has a clear conscience, so he's able to step forward and say, I want it to be a proper prosecution, so that this case goes to trial and the court decides guilt or innocence. And we here in the Chamber of Deputies do not rule on the guilt or innocence of those involved, I do not want to judge them at all, but we decide that the things that the government is writing about here in its programming statement that the rule of law can be carried out regularly. So I'd like what we're saying here, when we say we want to gain trust, to apply in practice. Let me mention one more part on page 6 next door, you can open it: "We will continue to fight tax evasion and aggressive tax planning." Aggressive tax planning, interesting term. I remember when we were here in March and April last year discussing how the Ministry of Finance would properly look at the issue of bonds, optimize the tax returns of the companies that issued these bonds, it was a huge struggle with the financial office and its director and the Ministry of Finance, so that they would start to fully address this issue and put all information on the table transparently. So I'll be glad if what's written here will also apply to things that have happened in the past, and these things will be properly investigated. There's a lot of talk here about eGovernment, about IT in the state administration. I have to say, I'm sorry when a minister comes into office who's been there for hours, and he already knows what kind of personnel decision he's supposed to make. The YES movement often accentuates the fact that it says "to run the state as a company" in the last year "to run the state as a family company." Who you were in business, I don't know if a good manager is able to come and say after four or five or six hours: I want to break the company structure here and say goodbye to these people. In order not to be general, I will use the example of the resort for which I have been responsible for four years. If we have built an ICT section and brought a person who is doing IT in private business, who has been able to set up transparent systems that have been able to bind himself to the vassals of companies that have supplied us with these systems in the past, we have managed to compete them, and above all - please pay attention - in 2013 the Ministry of Agriculture spent CZK 637 million on IT. We reduced this amount to CZK 399 million in 2016 by the activity of this person and his team, and over the four years, the difference compared to 2013 and previous years was CZK 900 million, less than CZK 1 billion. It says here that we want experts, independent IT experts, and we're kicking those experts out of the Ministry after a few hours. The same thing, when we look at the administrative section, where we managed to end disadvantageous legal agreements, where we managed to win key legal disputes, and we also managed to save the state hundreds of millions of crowns, we also decided after a few hours, or you decided that these people are unnecessary for the state, we do not need them. That's what I think is contrary to what's being said here, and I'm sorry. I would also like to say what I personally lack in the programming statement and what I would imagine that the programming declaration of a good government for the Czech Republic should contain. In addition to matters relating to effective governance of the state, eGovernment, tax cuts, reduction of administrative burdens, I lack the words that do not appear in this document at all - words such as marriage, words like solidarity, words like charity, words like euthanasia. Those are the problems that this company is troubled by. I don't want people dying at the hands of a doctor, I want people dying at the hands of a doctor. And you won't find those words in that text once. And these are important values that I think are supposed to have an accent in our society, and that apart from economic and economic matters, I think that the programming declaration should contain and touch on these values that are important for the life of a person and family in the Czech Republic. So let me conclude by saying one more important thing. Please, Prime Minister, through the President, the analogy with Israel and the price of water is not true. I'll forward you a link and find out through my advisors what the truth is. It's really not true. If I were to sum it up to the last sentence: for me, this is not a government programming statement that deserves trust. For me, it's an interesting piece of business, and I don't want to be a part of that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u49	With a factual remark, President Chvojka is electronically logged in. But since he's not here, he can't use his factual notes. Mr Holomčík is duly entered into the debate, followed by Mrs Richterová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring one subject to today's meeting on trust to the government, which has only been mentioned marginally here, but it is and will be crucial for our country in the coming years, regardless of which government will rule us, and that is water, virtually. her lack. The government before us today mentions the fight against drought in several places of its programming statement. I would like to quote one sentence from the Environment section: "We will ensure better legislative and substantive protection of water resources and, above all, drinking water sources. " As I like to think of myself as a man from South Moravia, this word sounds from South Moravia, which is the most affected and threatened by drought from all regions. However, only until I remember that the Ministry of Environment supported and supported a project that threatens a strategic and irreplaceable source of drinking water for almost 150,000 people living on the border of the South Moravian and Zlín Region. I am talking here about supporting the extraction of gravel sand just a few kilometers from my native Strážnice. The mining area between the municipalities Moravský Písek and Uherský Ostroh is almost literally a stone's throw from the springs, which, as I have already said, are a source of drinking water for almost 150,000 people, and this resource is significantly threatened by potential mining. And it's an acute problem, because there is currently a procedure for setting up a mining area at the Regional Mining Authority, which has been suspended for the time being, and is waiting for the decision of the decay committee right at the Ministry of Environment. What is important is that the South Moravian Region is opposed to mining, the environmental department of the municipality concerned is opposed with extended scope, i.e. Veselí nad Moravou, anti-mining representatives of 57 municipalities who supply these resources with drinking water, and also several tens of thousands of people oppose them through two petitions. At the second meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Minister Brabec himself said that he had eight opinions available, of which only three are for mining. That's not what the five say. And I would like to remind you that in these 57 municipalities, more than 19.5 thousand people voted in these elections. I went through the programmes of the ANO movement in 2013, as well as the programme for these elections, and although they are very different and seem to belong to two different parties, neither does it say that the ANO movement will support the threat of drinking water resources. And if this government or any other government is serious about protecting drinking water resources, logically it must use all legal means to prevent such irresponsible gambling with a strategic source of drinking water - and I will repeat it - for 150 grand. And I, through Mr President, would like to ask the members of the government here, whether the words I read at the beginning are serious, or just a bunch of talk to fool voters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Mrs Richterová will now appear, Mr Mihola will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u52	Hello. Dear colleagues, after all, I can see you, although from behind the counter it is more difficult for me. I would like to ask a few questions about the government's programming statement, which is important not only for the pirát and our country, but also for me personally. In advance, I would like to appreciate that the programming declaration has evolved. The fact that this important document is being consulted is a very important matter. Now, get to the point. I am on the Committee on Social Policy, which is why my questions are particularly directed at Minister Jaroslava Němcová. At the same time, I am generally concerned with the issue of family support, affordable housing, and these are things that, I think, concern us all completely. On page 9, the program statement states: "We will strive for children to grow up in functional families. " The aim is to - I quote: "create sufficient capacity for individual care of the family type." And another thing. Mr. Babiš, in his speech to the people asking for trust, said how important the apartments were. This is written on page 29, where the promised transformation of the State Housing Development Fund is promised, and then on the next page it is said that the government will deprive the social housing law. The aim is to reduce the number of persons in housing distress. I'm happy for those words, but I see a context that needs to be addressed and asked. Without them, it could really be just pretty words in the program. So what does this issue have to do with - I guess most of you in the room know. I'd like to remind you of that, after all. There are not many families with children living in residential hotels and shelters. It was calculated that it was about 6,000 families with children. These are conditions that are not really good for either childhood or other periods of life, and that is what the missing law on social housing could do. On the contrary, in addition to these six thousand families in the hostels and shelters, we have about 1,660 children under three years of age, and this is very important, only the smallest in three years, in infant homes. And now, maybe everyone doesn't know that you're so-called. infants are medical facilities. So we're getting to the fact that all of these issues are connected. Living - Ministry of Regional Development, Baby Institutes - Ministry of Health, support for families in difficult situations, support for just a lot of important social services, social workers etc. - it's the Department of Labour and Social Affairs again. Each of us in our work, whether in the communal, in the county, or right here, knows how difficult this inter-resurrection cooperation is. So that's why I specifically ask about the individual care of the family type, about the change that was mentioned in the media articles, from suckers to kangaroos, metaphorically speaking, what is the plan for this reform, namely: Has this plan been discussed in any way with the founders of these institutions? Has it been discussed at the level of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health? Did you, through the President, deal with Minister Vojtěch Adam? That's where the nursing homes belong today as health care institutions. So I'm wondering if the promise made in the programming statement is feasible, because there's a consensus between these departments that have to agree. Again, the question is whether it is considered to move this type of device into the MPSV gesture at all, so that it is the care of vulnerable children that is united and not as fragmented as it is today. And before I ask another question, I would like to quote the President. He told us here in his discreet speech that he does not like when politicians only talk to - I will say it to the people - the bosses, just the business leaders or just the municipal representatives instead of the people who live in that city, instead of the employees who work in that enterprise. And the question - I'm going to throw it back to the infant institutions, to the other institutions caring for children, or the families in trouble: Will you include in your reform and in the transformation in the care of the family type, as well as those who are directly clients? For example, those who have been through such care recently have experience directly from within these institutions? Just as the President said it was necessary to speak directly to those involved, so I would like the residents, not only the directors, but the residents of children's homes or in the case of infant homes, to be involved in the preparation of the change. So my question, in turn, through the President, is: Are you planning this, Madam Secretary? And now an inter-resorial connection to housing. Today, an estimated 60 percent of the placement of those young children, children under the age of three, in nursing homes can be prevented. Basically the solution to family housing needs should be the law on social housing, affordable housing and social services. Now the situation is that although inadequate housing must no longer be an official reason for taking children away, unfortunately, it is often the case. And this brings us back to the context that social problems often cannot be solved just at the level of the MPSV, and if the law on social housing is not drawn up, things will probably not be able to move and improve systemically. I, therefore, am now speaking to Minister Dostálová through the President, if what has happened in the media is true, that the MMR is the only gesture of the preparation of the social housing law. I would just like to point out, in this context, that this has been the case in the past. The MMR was already in charge of the law in 2007, and at that time it was such a situation, only the deregulation of rent was running out, and that was the reason not to introduce the law. It was paradoxical, which, of course, was when the number of people grew in housing distress. However, then another attempt in 2013 was to prepare the MMR again, and Deputy Minister Kalous said at that time that only the level of legal adjustments was sufficient. Nothing happened again. 2016 was already the law prepared, but again the negotiated agreement of the MPSV - MMR was not there, we all know that. However, the recap shows there was no match in the past. So my question is: Why, on the basis of the promises made in this government's programming statements, should we expect the ice to really break, that the change will actually come? What specific changes, please, through the President, Minister Dostálová, are you preparing in your department? Changes aimed at making the law not only ready this time, but also actually presented. In other words, how exactly does the MMR intend to introduce a good law on social housing? Of course, you could go on forever. I've removed these two areas that are extremely closely related. [[17,00 hours]] If it were possible to prevent problems in families so that so many children do not have to be outside their biological families, they would be reduced in infant homes or, possibly, in future facilities, rather similar family care. Finally, I would like to summarize that I have taken out these two points concerning the care of the smallest children and concerning families in the biggest problems in those asylum houses and hostels, because I consider them the weakest of the weakest, and that is why they really deserve our attention and that the sentences on white paper should not just remain sentences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, in response to several speeches by Members and Members to meet the responsibilities of the President, I state, or may I remind myself, that Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure states that the speaker only addresses Members and Members, not members of the Government, through the President. So you can all turn to the members of the government directly, not through the President. Now that I've taken my word for it, I'm gonna use it to read my apologies. Mr Jaroslav Holík apologizes from 17 o'clock until the end of the hearing due to illness. We now have a factual comment from Minister Němcová before the duly registered ones. I beg you, Madam Secretary, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, may I also wish you a nice afternoon and respond on the way of the President to the Member, whom I will certainly be happy to welcome tomorrow, and I hope that she has accepted my invitation, because if I have noted correctly, she is a member of the Social Committee and I have invited the entire Social Committee to attend the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs tomorrow, so all the questions that have been put here will be answered by the Member. To fit in those two minutes, as I was instructed, because I'm a rookie here, I'm just gonna say that the social-health link doesn't know how it went before. However, I communicate with the Minister of Health on a daily basis. I myself come mainly from health care. Since 2004, I have been managing the health economy in hospitals with a three-billion-dollar and higher turnover. I have also managed social affairs in the largest region - in the Central Bohemia Region, where one of the main priorities, as is the government's priority today, is the smallest children, and I am sure to answer for specific measures. As far as infant formulas are concerned, I'm sure we'll minimize it. It's our priority. However, we all know, and if we don't want to lie to ourselves that it isn't, then believe that it really is, some children just aren't placed in foster family care. And the measures and solutions we're going to be looking for will be for that little fraction of the children that we're left with. So we'll answer that tomorrow, if you don't mind. And as far as the social housing law is concerned, I don't know what speed is elsewhere. However, yesterday we sat with Minister Dostálová, the Chair of the Social Committee, and we are preparing a substantive bill that will be prepared very quickly to really move a little after years of social housing. We have a meeting scheduled and we're communicating.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u55	Your time, Madam Secretary, is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u56	Thank you so much. So we also communicate with the Health and Social Committee together. Just a quick answer like that. I'm looking forward to seeing you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u57	So now, with a factual remark, Minister Dostálová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u58	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I, too, through the President to the Member. It's been said. Of course, we are preparing a new law. I just... It is not entirely fair to mention the year 2013 that the law was introduced. However, the government fell, so of course it all fell under the table. I don't really understand why the law ever moved to MPSV, because the gesture of housing policy is MMR and it always has been. We have also dealt with the social housing platform, and we really mean it. And here, whether you like it or not, the concept of minority government can be very helpful to us, because we are all in the same boat and we are trying to meet each other. To be specific, this will be the definition of people in housing distress. But we'll also have to figure out who the people in the housing emergency are guilty and who are not guilty. Of course, we will have to work with a group of guilty and not guilty, which means low-income groups like mothers with children, disability, seniors. On top of that, the MMR already has a whole bunch of grant titles today, and it's just a matter of money to satisfy the demand. As for those responsible, there are, of course, drug addicts, alcoholics, inappropriate behavior, notorious taxpayers, and simply people who can't live in any society. We'll deal with them. And the Minister and I are discussing a form, if, of course, the beginning must be in compulsory social work to try to integrate these people into society. But it's not possible with such inappropriate behavior to buy these people apartments in esvéječky, because it's going to decompose the company in the existing apartment houses. So they're going to work with them. However, I am also very happy to welcome the lady, we can talk about these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u59	We will continue the debate. Mr Mihola, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, is registered after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u60	Hello, Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, esteemed colleagues. Democracy is a debate, said Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk. And here we will certainly use this winged statement in the course of this jubilee year, perhaps all of us, perhaps even repeatedly, undoubtedly also members of the ANO movement. Masaryk did not claim that this discussion was simple, short and always pleasant. Finally, the first Republic and its governments were not ideal and trouble-free. In the Chamber of Deputies there were also German parties in addition to the Czech parties. And if there was no other way, there was a red-green coalition, or a different complex one. So it wasn't an idyllic, it wasn't a selanka. Nevertheless, we are still turning to the first Republic. Even in this jubilee year, this enrollment to Masaryk, the first Republic and its personalities will certainly culminate. Now comes the new Prime Minister, claiming that the monochrome government is, quote, "the best option. I was in the coalition, and that was a horror movie. A one-colored government is certainly more practical than coalition for all kinds of coalition councils." End of quote. I have here, from face to face, the chairman of the club of the ANO movement, through Mr President, a colleague of the Faltýnek, with whom I have had or had a number of discussions and just those coalition councils as the then president of the KDU-ČSL club. Was it really such a horror movie, Mr. Chairman? Face to face? Just a rhetorical question, because we can't have a dialogue here. [[Chairman Faltynek responds from the scene.]] Every now and then, there's an answer. But you see, I'm sure it wasn't a horror movie that was permanent. Yes. And even easier than a monochrome government is one-party government. We don't have to talk to anybody after that. Besides, we already have that experience. And some things work. It's just that democracy is kind of redundant after that. Yes. And perhaps the politician is here to communicate, to be able to negotiate and compromise, to find solutions in complex and complex situations. Compromise is not about the fact that only some are retreating. In the previous coalition government, as chairman of the coalition club, I experienced many predicaments and many disappointments. I've always tried my best to see things through my evaluation. For example, I never claimed that the CSSD was a better partner than the YES movement. It was completely balanced on the backstabbing. And I was able to get over them. And overall, I have always, I always stress, evaluated the cooperation and results of the last three-wheeler positively. [[17.10 hours]] The effectiveness of the negotiations at the aforementioned coalition councils was then mainly related to constructive or non-constructive negotiations of the partners. Nothing more, nothing less. In the programming declaration, I find a number of things I agree with, especially in the fields of education, science, sport, culture, that is, in the areas to which I am professionally and professionally closest. However, I lack much more emphasis there, sometimes completely, on ethical values, family support, protection of human life and other moral and bioethical aspects. Those aren't second-rate things, on the contrary. And I am sure that KDU-ČSL would always enforce these values into the coalition contract and consistently protect them. We, in various discussions, do not care whether it is migration or anything else, we curse ourselves with Christian values, culture, roots, identities, and I don't know what everything is, but then somehow we tactfully forget it, and we certainly don't put it in key positions in our documents and statements, and that's a shame. I'm glad the sport has a separate chapter. I'm a big fan of sports, but I don't find such essential words from my point of view, like orel or Falcon. I don't understand why. Two words wouldn't really work there, and they mean a lot when we're talking about mass support for sport, or as we said. In today's vote on the trust of the minority government, I will vote against, as will my club. I am not curious that due to the programme agreement, the Prime Minister will once demand support such as ODS and KDU-ČSL, and then for another point he will find support for SPD and KSČM. This Republic not only deserves a stable government for its 100th anniversary. I'm gonna try to make this happen. I respect the winner of the election and the fact that the winning party is building the Prime Minister. I believe that even this neuralgic point can be dealt with by the ANO movement. And I believe that all politicians will think of this country and its welfare in their search for a solution, as they promise before the elections and when they promise. He does not really deserve the responsibility to Masaryk's inheritance and other great personalities of the First Republic. At a time when we remember a hundred years of the Republic and also a century of Czech democracy, I want to emphasise this very much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. Mrs Gajdůšková, Mr Valenta, will now speak. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Government, Madam Members, I will allow myself to discuss whether or not we will speak to the Government of Andrej Babiš to enrich the purely practical view. I will try to think about two questions, that is why I will not vote in favour of this government, but I would also like to touch on another question, and that is why the rush to establish this government was that there was no time to negotiate its support. And negotiating support for the government is a pretty good practice in democratic societies to establish governments. The Prime Minister and this government are playing a program game with us. I see that it is basically blackmailing other political parties that we must support this government when there are points to our agenda. The president called it a buffet. I'd use a different analogy. They're also talking about releasing a white dog. What's that? I'm gonna release a white dog so I can distract myself and do whatever she wants. Of course - I can also use a different analogy, I see that I may not have been fully understood what I was going to say, throw a shredded bone and fight for it. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased with the social democrats, for example, with the promises of the government to the seniors. I just have to say that I have quite a doubt about their feasibility, if, at the same time, the government statement intends to reduce social security contributions, i.e. reduce the income from which pensions are paid. But so be it, it's up to the government to do it. But there's a dog buried in that, too. And I'm going to touch the second question. Only an estimated 20 percent of the government's activities are legislative activities. Only about this small part of the government's negotiations and the government's agenda is to work with laws, there are laws where Parliament has undoubtedly its weight, its supervisory function and its role of representation of voters, the representation of citizens. But the remaining 80 percent are government's own decisions out of the House's business, out of the House's sight. In the decisions of personnel, i.e. occupying positions not only in ministries, but also in state and parastate companies and other state structures, they are only government decisions, except for the exceptions. As has already been said, trust means trust. I simply do not believe that 80 percent of executive decision-making will be in line with what we would like as a social democracy. I simply do not believe, although I would like the majority government to be confident here, because political stability is also a condition for the stability of the economy and for the economic and economic development of the country. I will allow myself to rely on one area that I have previously addressed - science, research and innovation in the previous government has even been entrusted to the level of the Vice-President of the Government. He had, could and could also do so to a great extent to coordinate science, research and innovation across the resorts and to strengthen in this way what is the essential condition of the country's future prosperity - science, innovation and high value added disciplines. But this position has been abolished by this government. There are only nine lines of science, research and innovation in the programming declaration, and it is therefore very difficult to read what is actually going on in this area. The words about this, and now I quote: 'government will set up and conduct a transparent evaluation of science and research with an impact on funding', however, give serious concern that this is an attempt to eliminate what the Research, Development and Innovation Council has done so poorly and hard and the past government has worked hard to negotiate, accepted and also started. We'll just start again from scratch. Ladies and gentlemen, not only on science and research, but the world doesn't stand. And our constant return to zero won't help us catch up. I simply do not believe in the good intentions of the government if, also on the second day of the government's existence, we learned from the Office of the Government about restrictions on the access of journalists and the conclusion of government negotiations which are essentially comparable to that of secret negotiations. [[17.20 hours]] How can you trust a government that announces an annulment of the regulation, no matter what, and the next day the Prime Minister will say it didn't actually happen. Did it happen or didn't it? What did the government decide? Was it a resolution, or was it a government resolution? On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, I quite trust the Minister of Health again, because I know that he has been preparing his actions for a long time, but I am quite afraid of these steps that have been prepared. It is in the programme statement on laconical information on the preparation of the new Act on health insurance companies and their increased competitiveness. The privatization of health insurance was already prepared by Minister Julínek. But he started very clumsy back then, if you remember, fees. And that ended it, too. But in this government statement, it's more clever. I quote: "We will open a discussion on the possibilities of introducing additional insurance for services not covered by public health insurance." End of quote. Discussion and debate are necessary and fine. And if we deal with these matters together and deal with the law that this House will discuss and approve, of course we are ready to debate. The problem is that the government is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies and should be derived from the outcome to the Chamber of Deputies, but, as I said, only somewhere around 20 percent of the government's work goes to Parliament. The rest of the decision-making is already at the government's discretion. And that's just what the House, the citizens' representation, is all about just trusting that government. Not only for the reasons that I mentioned in my speech, but which we have also heard here from my previous speakers, I must say that I do not trust this government and I cannot vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. Mr Valenta now has the floor, followed by Mr Čižinský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, colleagues, honourable members and members of the Government. Members of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, as has already been said by our party chairman, will not yet give confidence to the minority government YES with the participation of non-partisan experts. Allow me, however, to make a very brief statement as to why I personally will not support this government in its efforts to gain confidence here in the Chamber of Deputies. What exactly bothers me, concerns me, or what can I make major remarks in the programming declaration? For example. in the chapter Finance and the management of the State, there is talk of an effective drawdown of resources for investments from the European Union. Yes, future spending on investment must be effective, I agree with that. But what I lack here is a clear and highlighted commitment and login to the maximum consumption of already set and started resources. The government is holed up in virtually every aspect of this document by some planned shift in information and communication technologies and eGovernment, but it forgets a little bit that something is still going on here. And I point out, not for little money. Specifically, I can state e.g. previously heavily expected European subsidy for the construction of high-speed internet networks amounting to CZK 14 billion. She's been gambling here for a long time, and I don't remember the previous ministers from the ANO movement, and not even Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Babiš, doing anything for her successful drawback in the last two or three years. Although for objectivity, I must add that the greater part of the responsibility for the possible lack of this sum lies with the former ministers of industry and trade of social democracy. What I also need to explain is that you will not be seeking to adopt the euro as a common currency in the coming period for the loss of your own monetary policy. Another reason is that the unfinished process of nominal and real convergence to the euro area in fixing the exchange rate would bring costs in the form of inflation leading to the depreciation of citizens' savings. So I ask: How will the government deal with the fact that, in the context of accession negotiations to the European Union, we have committed ourselves to adopting the single currency of our time? It is likely that this position will be properly and uncompromisingly explained in the structures of the European Union. To evaluate the savings of our citizens, even for example. in the form of the said inflation in connection with the adoption of the euro, it simply must not occur. [[Deterioration?]] I must add that I am quite beginning to lose track of the position of the YES movement on the adoption of the euro. Before the 2013 elections, the leaders of the movement stated, specifically for the electoral calculator project, that they support the adoption of the euro, but already a year later in their European Parliament election programme, that the government coalition has a critical role to discuss about the introduction of the euro, as well as its participation in fiscal and banking union. At the same time, it was said from the YES that the euro crisis did not take place as a currency in the European Union's financial markets, and that the koruna could be more vulnerable than the euro in times of crisis. Andrej Babiš himself, a big fan of the euro at his time, later warned that the crown was a better tool for the Czech economy for a period of crisis. So what's it like, anyway? Do you really want to accept the euro, or do you not want to? The answer, yes, but when the euro is adopted, I personally consider it an alibis libation to the prevailing social opinion, which now sounds clearly against adoption. But what really raised me in your programming statement is that the positive result of social policy today is an exceptionally low level of poverty. I would really like us to finally stop embellishing and ignoring the problem of poverty in the Czech Republic with such claims. A hundred times repeated lie never becomes true. First: In a study for the Czech Moravian Chamber of Trade Unions, which notes this "popular state," the investigation was conducted only in resident households, i.e., for example. Unconventional accommodation, including homeless people, is already outside the statistics and it is enough to go through one of the richest cities in Europe today, the capital of the Czech Republic of Prague, and we will see enough of this poverty. Two: There is a huge concentration of households just above the income poverty line, which means that many of these households are just a few hundred crowns away from falling below the poverty line. And three: According to the decilary distribution of net income, nearly three million people are in the lowest two decility, and this seems to the government as an exceptionally low level of poverty? Well, I certainly don't. This exceptionally low level of poverty, for your information, colleagues and colleagues, the Dear Government, also guarantees that every tenth child does not have lunch at school, every tenth citizen is below the state recognised poverty limit, but poverty also applies to a quarter of a million people under 15 years of age. Every 25. senior is in execution, millions of people are at risk so-called. Work poverty and the definition of our well-being, as you write, could continue. In your statement, however, I was also interested in the fact that you will pay particular attention to the active audit of existing information systems and the electronisation of agendas in communication with clients as well as in support of the Office's own operation. Just for some kind of information supplement. A non-state organisation gathered data from 2013 to 2015, i.e. when YES was in government, from 23 public institutions, and found that in this wider sample the average cost per user is more than CZK 33,000. Almost three billion crowns were paid for software and hardware. For your information. For hardware including licenses of CZK 570 million and software of CZK 2.3 billion. [[17.30 hours]] It follows from this data that if the observed institutions purchased at a maximum average price, they could save up to 219 million a year. Crowns. And since there are about 50 similar offices in the Czech Republic, the savings could have been about half a billion crowns. But why am I saying this now? Well, because the highest average data were recorded at the Ministry of Finance and at the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the authorities under the direct political influence of the ANO movement. Where were the promises of YES on central purchases that were to make the operation of the state cheaper by 60 billion? crowns? So now I'm just asking you to make things a little different this time. In the chapter Digital Czechia the current state of eGovernment is not satisfactory, it is said there. Over the past period, many new projects and services have not been created; in a better case, they have maintained a not very effective state. Yes, that is a very correct statement, but please nicely, wasn't this also in the programme statement and coalition agreement of the government in which the YES movement sat? I'm telling myself it was. So again, I ask not only for idle promises, but especially for the real implementation of the promised promise. Next point. The Czech Republic needs a digital revolution, i.e. full high-speed internet coverage. Connection of all state databases and electronic identity for every citizen. Yes, there really is insufficient infrastructure in the Czech Republic. The spine networks are top, but they do not get the so-called. strong wires to individual cottages, which is confirmed by the Association of Mobile Network Operators. The problem lies mainly in the construction law. The construction process often lasts more than a year, for example a month in Germany. The European Union's strategic objectives are: by 2020, one hundred percent of households join 30 megabits per second, more than 50 per cent 100 megabits per second. So, please, we really need to speed them up. But not as in the last parliamentary term, when you actually wrote these priorities with Social Democrats and KDU-ČSL in the programme statement and somehow escaped. One piece of advice for you: Try not to let the revered digital revolution take place in the same way as for example. the Internet project to schools, where good intentions were thwarted by private business and in the end everything ended with a statement by the SAO that more than 800 miles were used economically. Crowns. And another one of your programming statements: "We're gonna enforce every citizen's law on the Internet." I agree, everything's fine. But in my opinion, the government could be much more ambitious. It's pointless to set low targets. The right to the Internet is a fundamental human right under the United Nations. And that's what needs to be done. Although the similar law was already passed in 2000 in our still digitally chanted Estonia. But much further is already, for example. Finland, where the Telecommunications Market Act 2010 even guarantees citizens one megabit per second. And why not us if Finland? I was also intrigued by the claim that you were going to enforce an amendment to the contract register bill. Although the final version of the statement, fortunately, has already dropped the original statement, and I do not agree with the pirát, who have also said this today, but from another point of view, but I add that I am glad that this amendment will no longer be binding on all state companies, including ČEZ or Czech Post. But I don't know, because it's not clear from this statement. In this respect, it seems to me that a very suspicious organization called Reconstruction of the State has probably fallen upon you and some other lobbyists seeking the final liquidation of our state-owned companies for the benefit of the private sector. And I am really interested now, and I would also like to know the answer, which direction, according to the government of YES and non-party experts, this amendment should take. So will it be binding on all state firms, or won't it? Ladies and gentlemen, although I acknowledge that, despite these shortcomings, the government's statement presented contains a certain percentage of the programme intersections with the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia's electoral programme, I cannot, for the time being, join the government's confidence in my vote. However, I believe that, in some adjustments, this absolutely fundamental document could also find support for the future, much wider support than it is likely to receive today. And at the very end, one more recommendation to the authors who designed this statement and who will probably continue to work on it. Please nicely, Anglo-Saxon terminus technicus Prime Minister, who is operated in the text of the statement, our, therefore the Czech Constitution does not know at all. In Title 3, where there is talk of executive power, Point 67 (2) states that the Government consists of the Prime Minister, Vice-Presidents of the Government and Ministers. So please respect that. We are in the Czech Republic, the Czech language is still the official language here in the House and the language of the proceedings. But that's just for some relief. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u65	Thank you, Mr Valent. Have a nice evening. And please, next in line, Mr Čižinský, Mr Lubomír Zaorálek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u66	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, dear colleagues, dear public, allow only a few comments. There have been several illusions that the monochrome government of the ANO movement will be more operational than any other solution. I'm afraid it's an illusion. Let me give you an example: Prague and Central Bohemia. Prague and Central Bohemia are troubled by several topics. Lack of kindergartens and schools, lack of parking between Prague and Central Bohemia and Prague Circuit. The YES movement has and had all the cards in its hand. It has, and has the Minister of Transport, the Governor and the Mayor, and these problems are not improving. How can I trust the programming statement that in three years' time, teachers will take 150 percent of the current amount when not a single member of the ANO movement voted for a proposal from a colleague of Mihola to raise salaries by five percent and make a settlement for private schools? How to believe the concern for schools and kindergartens in Central Bohemia, when it was for more money for kindergartens in Central Bohemia that not a single member of the ANO movement also voted? And allow me to make one more remark. The last thing Prague needs is to clean out historical buildings in the center and build new buildings for the Ministry. This government town is not a good idea. An example of this is the Invalidovna in Karlín. It's a building that's in the middle of time. They don't really know what to do with her. Prague does not need other empty houses, Prague needs to fill those that are empty at the moment. And there's a lot of them. And one more aspect, allow me. Unfortunately, there is often a distance from the officials from the speakers. That they'll be taken, that they'll be reduced. It is not possible to properly manage the country without qualified and well-paid officials. There is also talk of construction in the programme statement. That they last a long time. I am the mayor of Prague 7, I have pulled out how long the regional management in Prague 7 takes. It lasts 58 days, on average. What he stretches is the Magistrate and the Magistrate doesn't have enough qualified officials. So if, in connection with a government town, it actually sounds like, "We're going to put the officials from the palaces in some rabbit house so they don't live well," it's the opposite. Our state, our cities need qualified officials who are satisfied with their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u67	I thank Mr Čižinský and Mr Lubomír Zaorálek, please. Mr. Ondřej Profant will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u68	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm glad to comment on what's happening here in the House today. The House is the key place of political debate in the Czech Republic, so it can be assumed that something important is happening here. And it's enlightening to look at it, because, of course, you're wondering what's going on here tonight. You might think it's a government vote. But interestingly, if anyone thought that the president would come here trying to hoorrain to vote for the government, the president wasn't really trying to do anything about it. Even the president himself said the sentence that this government probably won't have confidence today. So even he, who was supposed to stand up for her, admitted that trust is not the issue here today. So the first thing is probably not about voting on trust at this point. [[17.40 hours]] The second thing is the text of that programming statement that reminds me of Shakespearův's title, Twelfth Night, The Three Queen's Evening, whatever you want, or the Mečiarův's sentence - no one can give you what I can promise you. So this text - I would like to draw the attention of Members who comment so enthusiasticly so that they do not succumb to taking the text more seriously than the authors themselves. 'Cause I suspect the lyrics aren't that big of a deal. And I don't mean that it's written down with a rather fast needle. But you see, the main meaning of such texts is not fulfilled. Although the Prime Minister here can say a hundred times that he likes and prefers the majority system. We have a proportional system here in this country. And that means it is not possible to write a sentence in the programme statement: the minority government of the ANO movement is currently a solution that reflects the democratic will of the citizens of the Czech Republic and the current distribution of forces in the Chamber of Deputies. You know, that's just not true, that minority government. This sentence, the introduction, it just doesn't add up, my friends, it's not true. And the second sentence is that the purpose is to unblock the post-election situation, and that's why... I'm sorry, that sentence is meaningless, too. It's not like it's unlocked here. What blocks the situation is what we all know, it blocks that unfortunately the Prime Minister is in a situation of a person who has been suspected of being a subsidy fraud, as is widely known. That's blocking the situation. And that needs to be unlocked. And if someone doesn't give up this personal interest to what the country is interested in and respect the rules of the game, then we're just blocked. We're all sitting here blocked. But I repeat, the first introduction to this preamble is just grossly untrue. There's a way to unblock it. There's a way. You must act. You have to act in a proportional system. And then the programming statement is actually the agreement of those who have agreed. And in the House, they'll prove they have a majority. That's what's supposed to be playing here. But that's not a game, my friends! We know in advance that there will be no trust. And this program statement is a piece of paper. [[He's pointing.]] This way I can take it, rip it off... Do you know why it's a piece of paper? I'll explain. Because if there's a vote of trust here today and it's voted, that means it's becoming some kind of commitment, for example, because there's a commitment by those who've been given confidence that they're going to do it, and then the House can control it. But since today we know there won't be any trust, I'm telling you, don't overdo it with the flavor you're doing it with. Nobody here is counting on trust, not even a president who'd like it, is counting on it. Let's not pretend this is about trust. That's not the point! Therefore, it is not about this text either, because the text will not become a commitment, and therefore it will not be possible to rely on it. You know, it's kind of a funny idea of him coming here and saying -- I took this side there, I took it, so you could vote for it. That's total confusion. I'm not going to vote for a text because someone gave me a passage that answers me. Because in the government's practice, not only do you have a commitment, but you have to have the ability to control how that commitment is fulfilled. And that's why you have coalition councils where you argue whether it's really going to happen the way it was meant to be. And the minute you disagree, maybe you can get out of that coalition. That's the point of the deal. But it's not possible to just build it like that - I'm going to write something for you on each side and you're voting for it, and then I'm going to do what I want to do. That's ridiculous. You know, the whole exercise is ridiculous. There's just no respect for the basic rules of the game. There is a sense in the proportional parliamentary system of the coalition government's programming declaration. And we're playing some kind of weird exercise in a situation where none of this is respected. So it needs to be made clear. Tonight is not about voting on government trust, because everyone knows that the government is not going to get trust, and therefore the debate over the text is useless. You'd almost say it's some luxury, why we're even doing this here. Don't we have anything better to do? Couldn't we have saved it? Well, friends, it's not that simple. Still, there's a point to this place today. And I'll tell you what it is. Because it seemed like it was some time between now and it could be some time between now and then, a failed experiment, although the experiment, which, as you can see, is doomed to failure from the beginning, so I'm thinking a little bit of a luxury. Then why is it happening? That's what we heard today. The president said that if the government doesn't have confidence, he'll be waiting for the Prime Minister to bring in the 101 signatures. That's about it. I wasn't there, but it was about that. And that is quite an interesting turnaround, because I would normally assume that the president will say - if the government doesn't have confidence, then it is necessary for the government to limit its performance only to the most basic functions so that it doesn't go into any of the most fundamental things, and we will look for a new solution. And the president should be the one looking for him. Instead, the president said - I'll wait. I'll be waiting for Godot for someone to bring me 101. I'll wait a week, wait a month, maybe a year. Or how long, I don't know, I don't know how long he's gonna wait, which is why I'm saying Godot. None of us know how long the president will wait. I mean, we don't even know who the president is, of course. But I'm saying, this opportunity that Miloš Zeman shot earlier today is a whole new situation for me. She actually confirms what I'm saying here. It doesn't matter today's vote on trust, it doesn't matter what it says. The point is, there's an opening of space quite unlimited for the waiting for Godot, which will take place at the Prague Castle, and when, God knows when and perhaps never will the chairman come forward with the presentation of the 101 signatures, because he just won't find them here, the parties will just try little. Folks, you're gonna try very hard, no one's gonna come up with any reasonable proposition, so it's gonna stay that way. And that's how it's gonna be. According to this programming statement, which at this moment, my friends... That's quite funny, what I'm watching around the debate! I can give you a few examples of how free it is. When I looked at it or watched it, do you know what the problem is? In the utter shakiness of what they say and promise, and the fact that it's not clear at all if the bunch of people sitting here today as government are really united by something that they're going somewhere. I've noticed incredibly opposite performances. One thing I remember, the Prime Minister will say for one time that the bus drivers will lose those salaries, the next day they say they won't lose them, they won't lose them. At the church restitution, I dreamt that the opinion was also changing every week. Then I noticed the problem that arose around Libya, which I suspect attacked Libya with the fact that we are going to assert ourselves there, the next day the secretary said that she didn't understand what anyone was talking about. Maybe she didn't notice it was the Prime Minister who said we were going to Libya. Then I heard the announcement - it concerned, oh, it concerned schools, that they would reduce finances for church and for private schools. Then I heard the minister say it wasn't true, that he didn't know anything about it. So, you see, there's a certain thing floating on this water that's going to be done tomorrow. And the certainty, I'm afraid, my friends, isn't going to end, because today, I repeat, it's not going to clear up here today. Besides, no one here has any commitment to keep their word. Because I repeat, if it doesn't go through with it, it can't even be relied upon, the government will sort of do whatever it wants. And this shakiness is the destiny of Czech politics. This is an important subject. And I'm more amused by what the Prime Minister said about how he's going to treat Europe, that we're going to be active there, we're going to be looking for allies. Let me tell you, what's very important to politics. Be predictable. If you're unpredictable, like this government is completely unpredictable, then I'm telling you, you won't be able to do European politics, because you can only do that if you're able to show first that you have trust at home, that you have a mandate, that someone is behind your policy, and the second thing is that you're a really predictable politician and it's visible to you. And don't say one week and the other week. If we are so unpredictable on the domestic scene, I guarantee you will not be countable and predictable on the European scene. And then how do you plan to build those alliances? You want to know how alliances are built? They are built simply by being a readable, understandable politician, a reliable politician who is worth talking to, because you know that you keep your word that your appearance has a certain degree of stability and that you are reliable. That's the alliance's assumption. But if you're a politician unpredictable, completely unpredictable, if even at home you're not able to negotiate trust, if you rule under circumstances that are weird, not transparent, then how do you want to do European politics? I can rip out another page here, that's basically nonsense about European politics. You just can't fill this up like this! [[17.50 hours]] The prerequisite for European politics, my friends, is that you will rule by the rules here at home, so these are dreams. And what's bleak for me is that I don't actually know if I can see any light at the end of that tunnel after today, or if we're going to wait for Godot in which we have a government that promises something different every week, we're going to be here without any debate, but we're going to gradually feel useless in that House, because that government won't actually be bound by anything. And he'll be collecting 101 votes. Sometimes he asks us if we've gotten better and we're ready to do something to help create the government. And if we don't try, he will rule as punishment forever and ever.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u69	I thank Mr Lubomír Zaorálek and ask Mr Ondřej Profant to prepare Mr Marek Výborný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u70	Dear Members, dear citizens. I've come to comment on a chapter, and that's digital Czech. I am definitely for the digital Czech Republic, for the modern Czech Republic, which will be friendly to citizens, which will really facilitate work etc. I also wrote a chapter on the Pirates program myself. I am glad that the YES movement has been inspired. The media likes to be inspired. Unfortunately, real deeds are very different. The credibility of the YES movement in these matters is simply minimal. I have extensive experience from the capital city of Prague. Here the ANO movement cooperates with David Libiger, a friend of the Karlovy Vary lottery lottery drawer, who orders overpriced orders that the Prime Minister has been talking about, such contracts that no private company would have ever made. You even avoid the decision of the expert committee that you prefer not to call on. But it's not just Prague. For example, these are also ministries. The current ministers, who were in previous governments and also had something to do with IT, such as the Prime Minister, whose office at the Ministry of Finance was awarded one really big contract, which is EET. This contract was first competitive, then this competition was cancelled without further comment and was entered into a negotiated procedure without publication and the total costs are 9.5 times more expensive than in the previous open competition. Moreover, the system was completely stupidly connected to the ADIS system, so it completely contradicts what is in the programming declaration. It is not about building, microservis, separation of individual services, there are not even separate individual enterprise components, there is quite clear vendor lock-in. Likewise, when former First Deputy Minister of Finance Lukáš Wagenknecht pointed out very special contracts at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which Mrs Šlechtová was running at the time, instead of correcting these contracts, Wagenknecht was fired. And these are certainly not the only failures and absolute inability to manage the resorts under the ANO movement. The same problems are on the verge of etc., so please spare us your idle promises and better start solving real problems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u71	I thank Mr Profant and I ask that Mr Marek the Výborný come to the speaker's desk and Mr Válek will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, dear government, dear colleagues, we are in a very serious situation here today. There's a government here. There is a minority government. A moment ago, we heard from my colleague, Mr. Zaorálek, that this government, this group behind me, is ununited. I would perhaps, through Mr President, say to Mr Zaorálek that, from my point of view, the government is very united, because it does not quite decide in the choir, but it decides as a managerial whole, the one who is leading it, and the spell, and not only the magic, but precisely what is the value of democracy, that we are deciding in consensus after discussion, so unfortunately it is getting to the whammy here. And now I don't just think of the level of executives, but mostly the level of the Chamber of Deputies. I've been hearing complaints over and over again over the last few weeks that we're not working, we're not deciding that we're stalling by blathering and babbling. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the Chamber of Deputies is precisely from having a debate. Then we'll discuss these things for hours, and then we'll decide based on some acquired competence. And we will respect that decision. But the idea that the House will function as a company, that we will be running as a company, is odd and is mostly dangerous. I don't want to discuss any details from the government's programming statement. Much has been said here. I would rather just pause very briefly and once perhaps a slightly lightening remark about how the programming declaration was made. The question is whether it is not the source or the result of some plagiarism, because here the government has gone through the programs of other political parties here in the House, has chosen it to be pleasing, that is what it has put into the program and now expects en bloc to receive support from other political parties. If you have children, maybe you're watching Evening with them and remember the story about how the dog and pussy cooked the cake. They mixed everything in there, and I just want to point out that the result was that they were both pretty sick. And I don't know if this programming statement is going to go to that, because it might be wrong for us citizens in the Czech Republic, for example, because if we just accidentally take everything that is promised here, we don't get at least 10 billion. in the budget, for example, because it gets into the wreckage of the rule of law, as the government has finally demonstrated this morning in its decision, when it does not respect the existing treaties and agreements to which the State has committed itself, for example because we will clearly find populist steps in the programming declaration, the issue of discount or forgiveness for seniors and children in the case of travel. Is he gonna pay the county or what? Who's gonna give them that? These are all things that do not inspire confidence in me and, as KDU-ČSL also announced, in this situation we are not prepared to vote in favour of this government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u73	Thank you, Mr Marek Výborný, and I ask that Mr Vlastimil Válek come to the speaker's desk and prepare Ms Hana Aulická. Sorry, Mr. Bělobrádek, factual point. I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, colleagues, I would correct my colleague Výborný. Then the cake was eaten by an evil big black dog, and then it was wrong. And what about what my colleague Zaorálek said? It's obvious. It's obvious there's gonna be a minority government here, there's gonna be a negotiation, maybe, maybe there's not gonna be a negotiation, there's gonna be a government in demise. We've seen this place for months. The government will come up with proposals, if they pass in the House, the government will be famous. If it doesn't pass in the House, it's either bad traditional parties or bad unconventional parties. And that will be the whole result, that is, we will basically be in these pliers, and the President will undoubtedly now be in a situation where he will say: so make a deal, and if you cannot agree, I will let this government rule here without trust, this government that does not have the support of the Chamber of Deputies. I think it is quite obvious, the tactic is quite clear and readable, but I think it is very wrong for the whole Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u75	I thank the honourable Member and I have another one here. Mr Onderka cancels his point of order. We'll go again in the order of properly registered. I would like to ask Mr Vlastimil Válek. Please. And Mrs Hana Aulická will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u76	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, dear Members, honourable Members of the government, I will establish, even if I have prepared something else. Besides, the dog was stupid, if I remember correctly. He almost died. And the question is, will some stupid dogs show up? But that's not what I was gonna say. I am one of the ones mentioned here, who are the new unkissed Members, unfortunately not young people who have no experience with the Chamber of Deputies. I'm here every minute, every minute surprised, not just by not being able to find space, but by a bunch of other things. And I'm trying to apply what I'm learning here to my life experience as a doctor, as a university professor. So I was wondering how I would do it on the bankruptcy committee if I had a candidate for a clinic that had problems, let's say, with the law. There's a different situation here. We have to audition for a negative illustration certificate, we have to have a statement on impunity and we must not be prosecuted, otherwise we cannot audition. That's why I'm relieved. I'm trying really hard. I am trying because I am very pleased with the way the health committee works, and I must say that I was as a doctor and as a person who therefore has the most friends among doctors, very pleased that Minister Adam proposed to delay the validity of the eRecipe. I'm trying to find the positive stuff. I have to look for positive things like any doctor, because we treat patients with good health, and that's why we're looking for positive things. That's why I'm very disappointed in my comments about the magnetic resonance imaging and the instrumental commission. I think the instrument committee has worked in different ways. She was trying to position instrumental equipment in some rational way, and Mr. Deputy Minister Vymazal, Professor Vymazal, when he became Deputy at the Ministry of Health, rationalized the operation of the instrument commission during the last election period. A number of expert companies participated in the work of the Instrument Commission, participated in the meetings of the Instrument Committee and commented on the instrument technology, and I am now saying this as Chairman of the Radiological Society - until Monday I will be chairman of the Radiological Society, I will finish Monday - which was involved in the decision of the Instrumental Commission. We spent a lot of free time, a lot of our time, going around all the workplaces in the Czech Republic honestly, dealing in all regional cities with hospital directors, deans, health advice, and asking what is the optimal distribution of magnetic resonances in the region. We've been checking to see if the hospitals have enough staff. We organized courses and training courses for laboratories and doctors in cooperation with the European Radiological Society so that we could have trained teams. And I really think that we have done, all of my fellow radiologists, committee members, all of my fellow radiologists, a huge amount of work in our spare time, so that we can express ourselves as best as possible, as qualified as possible on the layout of the instrument. And I think that it is the merit of Professor Vymazal, who has been the Deputy Minister of Health for a short time, and other people, that the commission, within the given possibilities, decided from my point of view in 90 percent of the cases really on the basis of professional parameters. And the installation of these devices, and I'm not just talking about magnetic resonance imaging, I'm just talking about expensive and heavy instrument technology, it's been placed, or these devices have really been placed based on the needs of the hospital. They were placed in those hospitals where the staff were ready for their service, where the conditions were in order to be operated. The fact that the Ministry of Health has resigned for a follow-up check to see if these conditions are actually fulfilled in the long term is another matter in some cases that insurance companies have somehow enforced interests that were not purely professional. And I would like to say that the citizens of our country not only have the right, but more than the right to be investigated by modern instrument technology. It needs to be realized that if a person has brain disease and is not an injury, then the only method that reveals the disease is an MRI. If the patient has a CT scan instead of an MRI, i.e. a tomography test, a method that illuminates his eye, which can damage his vision, a method that has dramatically lower yield, it is very, very bad for the patient, in many cases the disease will not reveal itself, and the person dies. Why am I saying all this? I'm saying this because it's a little bit of what's been said here, obviously important to the government, because the MRI came up here, there were seven phrases about the MRI, and I really don't like those sentences. I don't like him as a radiologist, I don't like him as the chairman of a professional society, and I don't like him as a doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u77	I thank Mr Vlastimil Válek, I ask Mrs Hana Aulická and Mr Martin Kupka is ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Our esteemed colleagues, following the submission of the Government's programme statement and its study, we have come to the conclusion that the efforts of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to find support for his government are really great. After all, it offers proposals across the current House of Deputies. I also do not think that we can call this proposal a set of promises, because that is what we can call all the programming statements that have been accepted by previous governments. The point is that every good government goes on the market with its skin and tries, yes, mostly with an agreed coalition, to approve and voice the confidence proposed by the government. In this case, this is a proposal for a minority government, but this does not change the expected outcome. However, according to all previous statements, we can expect that today's attempt to express confidence in the newly formed government will not work out. We have already announced for the KSČM MP's club that our speech in the Chamber of Deputies will be against the vote of confidence. The reasons why we are doing this have already been mentioned by Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip. However, I will also not leave a small excursion to the social area. We are particularly excited about the real solution to the situation of seniors, families with children, but also about the abuse of social benefits, especially in structurally affected regions, or about the stability of social services. Of course, we are particularly interested in the way in which these proposals will be implemented by legislative means and how they will be implemented in practice. The biggest question mark for us arose in the area of reform of the pension system. We do not resist conceptual and long-term change, but declared measures such as the separation of the pension account from the state budget, undefined multi-source financing and, above all, the introduction of a discount of CZK 500 per month on social insurance, which the employee takes out of his gross wage, raises us with great concern for the future of our seniors. Thanks to these parameters and further declines on the income side, and thus increasing the deficit, a cyclical crisis, unemployment, overall lower contributions and a lack of money in the pension fund itself will be added to this after a time. We do not understand why the announced sense of this measure, at least partial compensation for the costs of commuting workers for work or increasing qualifications, cannot be addressed at the expense of taxes. Why, at the expense of insurance, which is not really insurance, because political elites change their parameters by law so that they do not stabilise the system, but put into a controlled deficit and then long-awaited reforms, which will be beneficial only for high-income groups, employers and the banking sector. Solidarity for the needy will shrink to an equal or guaranteed pension. In our opinion, an amended Act on Pension Insurance, which would provide for an increase in pensions of CZK 1,000 to people who reach the age of 85, is not quite sufficient. The solution should be faster valorization for a significantly larger group called. Old-timers whose pensions have fallen significantly in proportion to wages over a long period of time. As I have already said, we support efforts to change the dosage systems made in past years, especially in the case of a set of benefits, housing allowance, benefits of assistance in material distress and benefits to long-term unemployed persons. [[18.10 hours]] KSČM will promote and strive for a legislative change in housing benefits and their unification. And here should be the personal effort of all representatives across the political spectrum, especially Ústecký, Karlovy Vary and Moravian-Silesian Region. Above all, it is necessary to change the attitude towards the long-term unemployed who have made the support of the state a way of life. There is no long-term strategy to work with reality such as: No work habits, little education, low social level, addiction to alcohol and drugs. Now these people are unemployable, as they are not primarily interested in employers. However, it is also a question called. a poverty business that has been supported by the State for a long time. Parents' greater responsibility for their parents' actions and their upbringing. Put emphasis on adequate education. Fast and quality solutions should occur in the area of execution and set tools to help families or individuals return to normal society and life. I also cannot forgive the comment on the part of maintaining variability in forms of substitute care and development in order to create sufficient capacity for individual care of the family type so that they do not compete with each other but complement each other appropriately. KSČM requires respect for the competences of the Ministers of Health, Labour and Social Affairs, Education, Youth and Sports and Interiors, as each has its place and tasks in this area. We are fundamentally opposed to unifying this care under one ministry or prohibiting placing children under three and seven years of age into institutional care. All resorts have their reasons and without their activities the child care system would collapse. There are currently around 5,000 in the Czech Republic. children reported to foster care. And the Czech Republic really cannot go in a senseless way, supported by the former leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. During the discussion, it was said that more than 60 percent of children placed in foster care were actually due to a housing emergency. Yes, we are unfortunately getting to this number in practice. But we must also stress the failure of family functions. Children are abused, abused, or even unwanted at all. So allow me, for the KSČM it was just a small field trip to social policy within the framework of the submitted programme statement by the Government and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u79	Thank you, madam. And I'm going to ask Mr Martin Kupka to the speaker's desk. And Mr. Jan Bauer will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u80	Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Dear Colleagues, Dear Colleagues. The preamble of the government's statement already says that the government has attempted, quote literally, an infiltration of the program of all parties in the House. The President called it a buffet this morning. Here was an example of a story about a dog and a cat cooking a cake and how it made the black dog sick. It also resembles a colourful alcoholic cocktail with whipped cream and cherry on top. But that's the real problem. Indeed, all political programs are not identical. Perhaps ours is quite different from the communist or social democratic one. If they were not different, the elections would probably not make much sense, nor would there be any sense in democratic negotiations on the majority in the Chamber of Deputies. A government statement, apart from a bunch of phrases and all the pretty promises, involves a lot of serious contradictions. Probably precisely so that it can quote as many attractive points as possible on all political parties as populistly as possible. For example. the government proposes and promises to simplify the tax system. In fact, for example. adds an additional personal income tax rate. There is no suspension of any existing tax. On the contrary, our proposal for a real simplification of the tax system has thrown it off the table, so it really cannot be trusted. Big topic - digital Czech Republic. Under different circumstances, I'd applaud. Even at one of the first places of all programming priorities. Four years ago, however, I wrote to the Deputy Minister for the YES movement at the Ministry of the Interior in charge of public administration and digitization of public administration. I wrote that it is necessary to start work on a single citizen portal and also on e Collection and eLegislativa. She assured me that all this is being done intensively, and that it will soon be done. Well, she didn't trigger it, and that's not it. Instead, after four years, we learn from the Prime Minister that we actually missed everything, that we missed the train. So we missed it because of the YES movement and because of the previous government. But if we are to talk seriously about the digital Czech Republic, and it is an important topic, then if it is to make sense as a useful tool for simplifying people's lives, then it is necessary to remember that for a part of the public electronic communication will never be entirely owned. And it's the only reason he can't turn his back on her. But especially at the very beginning, it must be important how public administration actually works, what it looks like. How many agendas today, how many agendas are doubled or unnecessary. At the very beginning, there must be a clear inventory and a severing of those unnecessary agendas. And if it's not there, then all the talk about simplifying the administration is fake. In fact, this government intends to increase bureaucracy. Besides, he's got good experience. Over the last four years, the administrative burden on entrepreneurs has increased by 13 percent. We can't really trust such nice words about the digital Czech Republic. The most fundamental thing I see on the entire programming statement is that it's actually deceiving the body. There is no comprehensive programming statement. It's just a cocktail of all kinds of points, promises and phrases. Moreover, it is clear that when Andrej Babiš was clear from the beginning that it would not be about trust today, it should at least be doing the function of appropriately populist PR. But, in my opinion, that is a serious constitutional step in the process of speaking to the government about trust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u81	Thank you, Mr Kupek. So please Mr. Jan Bauer, and Mr. Jan Skopeček will prepare himself. Ambassador, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u82	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, dear Prime Minister. It's the beginning of 2018, just before the election of the new president, and you, as chairman of the rapidly formed minority government, are asking for our trust. I would like to say to you, through Mr President, that no matter what happens in the coming hours, days and perhaps months, you, too, will be former Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. Just like all the other premieres before you. You may not gain confidence, or you may lose your trust. You won't be able to run the country, or you won't want to run it anymore. Maybe you'll leave disgusted or for health reasons I wouldn't wish you in any way. Or you just lose and go to the opposition. There will be a few sentences left after you, perhaps a paragraph about what you did right, where you failed, how you influenced or did not influence life in the Czech Republic. The behavior patterns, which will be evaluated and evaluated in a few years, are already set here and today. Each one with his word and every one with his attitude. Therefore, I am appalled by what you begin to write your story in the highest position. I consider it a disgrace that a man wants to be criminally prosecuted at the head of the government who refuses to face up to his problems and, instead, squirms and excuses. I consider it a disgrace that a man who has begun his political career by calling for transparency and respect for the responsibility of politicians wants to lead the government, and now he is avoiding standard procedures himself. It is more shameful for me than the very emergence of a government that is the product of a personal agreement between you and President Zeman. Certainly not the result of the political negotiations that usually follow in parliamentary democracy after the elections. [[18.20 hours]] There's no such thing in the past. It's a pattern of behavior that you're coming up with right now. I am convinced that, in time, such a pattern of behavior will certainly be paid for, that decency will return to political life, and that no policy in a similar situation in the future will even consider asking for confidence in its government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u83	I thank the honourable Member and ask Mr Jan Skopeček for the speaker's desk. Mr. Václav Klaus will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u84	Thank you very much. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I hesitated if I should get off because a lot of things were said here, but voting on government trust is so serious that I think it's worth it, even though an hour has progressed. I will not deal with the method or method of government creation, although of course I have great reservations about it, but there have been a lot of talk about it. I will focus on a few key points from the programming statement, which I personally consider important, which bothers me there, or which, on the contrary, I miss there, or which I consider inadequately explained. The government statement mentioned a balanced budget. However, when you continue to read the program, there are no realistic suggestions on how to reach a balanced budget. I mean a balanced budget over a longer period of time, not if there is some low deficit to the government in terms of decent economic growth or lack of investment or European subsidies. We all know that the problem of public finances and the state budget is primarily on its spending side, not on its income side. However, we will not find any measures reducing the expenditure of future budgets in the programming declaration. On the contrary, there are promises of additional money to various social groups and interest groups. When we look at the most pressing part of the state budget expenditure, it is certainly social expenditure and, in particular, pension reform. Pension reform is also mentioned there, but it lacks at least any outline of what pension reform should look like. The proposal to separate the pension account from the state budget is technology, it is no reform. The essence of any pension reform must be to bring more private resources into the pension system, because the ongoing system paid only for public spending is unsustainable, and we all know that. However, the government has not agreed to this, it is not able to have the courage to say that pension reform is needed in this way or in this direction. There are many pension systems around the world, but there are no infinite numbers. Basic pension systems, and of course each country then differs according to its historical, cultural, economic differences, so there are only a few and are very well described. However, we will not find this basic direction, framework, basic type of pension reform or future pension system, which the government would like to present to the Chamber of Deputies, in this programming statement. And I'm afraid the government doesn't mean it, and it's just a decoy to have this crucial thing in the programming statement. After all, the YES movement was part of a government coalition that, although not perfect and we could certainly find a number of imperfections on it, yet there was one, so the previous government, along with the YES movement, canceled it without presenting any other intention in the four years. If I stay with the budget, besides missing concrete ways to cut spending and balance the state budget, I also lack a rule or a way to avoid continuing pro-cyclical fiscal policy. And I'm not gonna be bad here. This is not a mistake, or it is not just the previous government's problem, but when we look at budgets, a long series of state budgets, we find that we have been pursuing procyclical economic policies for many years. This means that we are making senseless deficits at a time of economic growth when there is no need to help the economy with public spending, on the contrary, at a time of recession, governments will inherit poor public finances and must save at a time when it is least appropriate. I miss any rule of some long-term balanced budget, some commitment by the government that, at a time when the recession will implement state budget deficits, it will have to create surpluses at a time of economic growth so that, as I said, public finances will be balanced at a certain time. However, it is probably crying over spilled milk, because what to expect from the YES movement, which was unable to present a single budget without deficit, even though the previous government ruled in relatively decent economic weather. What I lack in the programming declaration is also an obligation to reduce and simplify, or to abolish certain taxes. The previous government and the ANO movement boasted that it was able to greatly increase tax collection. On the other hand, on the expenditure side of the budget, we saw that it was unable to increase investment, which was low. On the contrary, the money was directed at increasing operating costs of the State. I think pulling money out of taxpayers' pockets to invest less and paying more for running the state is a stupid concept and a bad policy. And since the YES movement has already managed to ensure that collection is growing, I say this in quotation marks, of course, because entrepreneurs and economic growth are dominantly responsible, I would expect a clear commitment which taxes will be reduced or which taxes will be abolished. However, if we look at the budget that we have approved for the current year, we will find that the government is counting on the growth of the compound tax quota, which means that the government wants again this year, and I fear that any government with the YES movement in the coming years will want to increase the tax burden of our fellow citizens. What really bothers me there as a liberal economist in that programming statement is that the government is claiming to introduce a second personal income tax rate. This means that from the temporary solidarity premium, he really wants to implement the second income tax rate of a natural person who will pay forever. Of course, I can't agree with that. It is a definitive burial of the concept of equal taxation, and I do not think that the government is supposed to increase the progress of our tax system and punish harder and more successful fellow citizens with higher taxes. For these tax reasons too, the fact that taxes will not fall, that they will not simplify and that there will be no progression in our tax system, of course I cannot vote for this government. While the programming declaration contains no savings proposals, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, we will find a lot of promises in the programme statement to all possible types or groups of our fellow citizens. The last or final entry into the program declaration was or did the free fare for seniors on trains. I'm just asking myself why it's only a free fare on trains and why it's not on buses, because not all citizens live on railroad lines. Why not just give our seniors a few liters of petrol for a month so that even those with cars can ride for free? I think they've tried this concept somewhere in South America, and I'm afraid that's the way we're going. Moreover, I would warn the elderly not to rely too much on this promise. We in Central Bohemia, and a colleague of Hamáček already mentioned this, have a very fresh experience with this in relation to the ANO movement. After the regional elections, when we were still in the coalition, we were interfering with the student fare that David Rath introduced at the time, and all of us across the coalition and the ANO movement agreed on what stupidity it was, but less than a year after the new coalition was established, the same ANO colleagues voted in favour of re-establishing the student fare. So I warn seniors not to rely on it, because it will depend on how ANO colleagues sleep and whether or not it will be a free fare. What I welcome in this programming statement, on the contrary, is that I am not just negative, that the government does not want to accept the euro. I agree with that. I think that this is really a national interest and that there is no point in entering a sick eurozone that would mean a lot of costs to us, difficulties and, in particular, the loss of autonomous monetary policy. [[18.30 hours]] However, I miss any indication in the programming statement of how the government will take on the ongoing pressure to integrate European monetary union and what has recently been presented, and I can say that this is a proposal for a joint finance minister of the European Union, a proposal for common European bonds and a number of such steps in the salami method that has been taking place in the European Union in recent years. There's no sign of that. The Prime Minister has frightened me recently by being ready to sign and accede to a fiscal pact, which is a material that we have been holding back here as an ODS for a very long time, and I fear that this government will very easily sign without any clear idea of how to approach European integration. Such rhetorical exercises that we must finally be active in the European Union, be more heard, although that is very nice, it is true, let us certainly be more active there, but have a clear view of how to maintain closer monetary integration is, in my view, our national interest, and this is also not any closer in the programming declaration. I could continue point by point like this, but I tried to stop at least those key points of the programming statement for me. From that programming statement, and I consider it positive, we found today that Andrej Babiš has compiled a left-wing government and that he wants to promote a left-wing program, because on the examples that I have pointed out, it is clear that he is moving in this direction. I am not criticizing this, it is legitimate and I even consider it very positive that we have finally learned this and that we know where this government will rank. I'm just a little worried about the second attempt, and that's why I'm doing this programming statement, and I don't agree with my colleagues that it's pointless, because I'm afraid that even in the second attempt, Andrej Babiš will come out of this concept, and all he's going to do is modify the specific theories and suggestions about whether social democracy or communists will be more attached to the government. So I'm afraid in the next version that's probably waiting for us, we can expect more ideas, like maybe we can expect free lunches in the state's senior kitchen or any social groups. I'm expecting a nationalisation of small retailers or a mandatory property return for all citizens. These are the things that I think we can expect if the prediction comes out that Andrej Babiš embraces the Communist Party and social democracy. To conclude, I don't think the current government is coming up with a program that offers lower taxes, less government redistribution, doesn't bring concrete solutions to pension reform, it doesn't bring any more freedom for citizens at all. It offers the exact opposite, and therefore, of course, I cannot support this government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u85	I thank Mr Skopečka and with priority right here I have a request for Mr Michálek's speech. I'm just gonna ask you, Mr. Ambassador, 'cause I've got you as well as duly registered, is that true? [[Yes.]] Okay, thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, dear fellow Members, since November last year, there has been a request for the extradition of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš for criminal prosecution. We had a meeting of the mandate and immunity committee, where we suggested that a mandate and an immune committee be convened this week, but we were not satisfied, we did not get away with it, it is not possible to call a meeting of the mandate and an immune committee. And now all of a sudden, I've learned the latest, fresh information that an extraordinary mandate and immune committee is due to be convened tonight. Members of YES and SPD have said that they have asked for a meeting, and they want to vote there to invite a Mr Komárek to the meeting on Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek. Mr. Komárek is supposed to have some compromising information on police investigator Pavel Nevtípil and was historically wrongfully convicted of abuse of authority in the case of Police President Tuhý. Now Jiří Komárek leads the risk management section in the administration of taxes of the General Financial Directorate Prague, where he was appointed for the reign of YES at the Ministry of Finance. So all of a sudden, when it plays out the interests of YES, it's possible to call a mandate and an immune committee, even at night, within two hours from the moment someone thinks of it. But when it comes to the decision to issue Prime Minister Babiš, it has been impossible since November!, when he could have been invited there, when the request was there, so we could give the Prime Minister the opportunity to comment. We gave it, the Prime Minister apologized, and there were x various obstructions that caused the mandate and immune committee not to do, although it should, because the law clearly states that the negotiations should take place without undue delay. So I think that now the only thing we can do when we have Mr Faltýnek and Mr Babiš here, the only thing we can do, is to interrupt the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the mandate and immunity committee will meet now that he has been convened after the House of Deputies meeting, so he can meet there immediately, and the Members can comment on the extradition request and we will be done. Then we can proceed with the release of the... - then we can continue by voting on the government's trust, not by issuing a government, please. So here I am putting forward a proposal to interrupt the meeting for two hours for the purpose of negotiating the mandate and immunity committee on the extradition of the two Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u87	So, Mr. Ambassador, I understand that this is a procedural proposal, so we will vote on it immediately. I'll call the MP's gong to the O.R. I'll check you all out. [[Members are coming from the foyer.]] So I think we're already in sufficient numbers here. So Mr Michálek's proposal is to interrupt the meeting for two hours. I'm gonna start voting number five. Those in favor, press the button and lift the fat. Who opposes this proposal? 181 Members are registered, 63 against 90, and 28 are held up. The motion is denied. Let's continue. Yes, with a factual remark, Mr Kalousek. Please, you have the floor. With priority rights, please. So not a factual point, but a priority right, I get it, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u88	Thank you, but I think I can fit into the time limit of a factual remark, I don't want to delay. I just want to say that, after President Michálek's motion has not been passed and the Chamber of Deputies is still in session, let me give you my opinion that I consider it completely unacceptable that further obstructions will be organised tonight in the deliberations of the mandate and immunity committee in the negotiations on the waiver of the immunity of Mr Faltýnek and Mr Babiš. Inviting an ex-police officer who is in the procedural position of an illegitimately convicted liar for slander - and of course, in court he can lie about what he wants, that's the right of every accused, every defendant - so I just don't understand the only reason why a mandate and an immune committee should hear it. In a fair trial, let the lawyers of both of the two accused Members invite anyone as a witness to the trial and will certainly be heard, but we are neither an institution active in criminal proceedings nor an independent court, and it is not our place to question people who have absolutely nothing to do with the matter, who simply promised us - not us, they promised you - that there will come to tell you some rumors, probably rumors from the wound for which they are criminally prosecuted, because they are criminally prosecuted and accused of slander. And I think it is a good thing now, at a moment when not only the Chamber of Deputies but also the public listens to us, to say out loud that it is an absolute outrage that the history of absolving the immunity of any Member has never been!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u89	I thank Mr Kalousek. With the actual application, I have prepared Mr Výborný. Mr. Výborný, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have no idea who they want to invite, of course, because it is not in the invitation. I don't want to speculate here. But the committee's invitation program states that they want to invite other people to the meeting of the mandate and immunity committee, which is convened on Tuesday. When we acted yesterday, I called for the mandate and immunity committee to meet on Thursday and decide immediately on this matter and allow both masters, both Prime Minister and President Faltýnek, to appear before the committee. That was a big problem. On Thursday, there was no meeting - other programs and so on. Suddenly, we have an invitation for tonight. But what matters is that committee yesterday, and it is clear that this next step also confuses what is due to Members. We're not really in the role of investigators here. We are here in the role of Members to assess whether this matter is in conflict with the mandate or is not in conflict with the exercise of the mandate. That's all we have to do. And let us not really confuse what is the role of Members and the mandate and immunity committee. I'm saying this in front of the entire House. I'm gonna say it on the committee tonight. And it's completely unprecedented what's going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u91	Thank you. With a factual remark, I have the Chairman of the Grospic Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u92	Good evening, Mr President, dear colleagues. I didn't want to enter into this discussion. However, with a technical remark, I think that this will be very good and may shed some light on it. This afternoon, eight members of the mandate and immunity committee, which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, received an application from the secretariat of the mandate and immunity committee, two fifths of the members of the mandate and immunity committee, on the basis of which they requested a meeting of the mandate and immunity committee today ten minutes after the end of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies with the programme - the draft agenda - propose a single point, to discuss the request for hearing other persons at the meeting of the mandate and immune committee on 16. 1. 2018 on the issue of Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek. In this context, I have no choice but to convene a mandate and an immune committee. Of course, I will not anticipate, and I do not know, this will probably sound from the proposal of the callers, whom they want to invite to the meeting of the mandate and immunity committee. But the mandate and immunity committee has to approve their agenda, and they have to agree on it. So, in this context, I think it is not yet appropriate to talk about someone being invited and speaking on the mandate and immune committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u93	Thank you. Now I have to ask President Bartošek. You called me technical, but that makes you third in line. If you're going with a priority right, it's now. I mean, factual. Yes, so you're third in line. On a factual point, I have Mrs Valachová here, Mrs Němcová will prepare herself. Please. [[Mrs. Valachová wonders if she hasn't checked in.]] I've got you on display. I have factual points: Mrs Valachová, Mrs Němcová. So it doesn't work. Mrs Němcová, please make a factual point. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u94	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify some information on the progress of the mandate and immunity committee. Thank you for the fact that Mr Excellent has suggested that a date be found to speed up our negotiations tomorrow after they had had a file with OLAF today, which was the request of the members of the ANO movement, to familiarise Babiš and Mr.Faltýnek's lawyers. After they didn't come to the committee themselves, we voted to give the gentlemen the opportunity to come another time. And I said, in line with Mr. Výborný, that it should be done as soon as possible. I suggested that we have five votes: we meet on Thursday morning - by the ratio of votes YES and SPD rejected, on Thursday afternoon - by the same ratio of votes rejected, Friday morning - by the same ratio of votes rejected, Monday morning - rejected, Monday afternoon - rejected. But I guess tonight's okay. This is how you can see who is conducting obstructional negotiations here, what the objective is that you do not know what the Member's mandate is, but you only act in the interests of your boss, regardless of the fact that you yourself promised in your Member's promise that you would act according to your best knowledge and conscience and in the interests of the people of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u95	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. I have President Bartošek on a point of order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Indeed, the conduct and summoning of the mandate and immune committee goes beyond the limits of our parliamentary practice so far. And since I consider the negotiation of the mandate and immunity committee to be absolutely crucial for it to come together and act, we have decided that we will allow the mandate and immune committee to do so. So the KDU-ČSL club takes an hour's break, let the mandate and immune committee meet and decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u97	I therefore declare a break for the meeting of the KDU-ČSL. It's for one hour, so I'll meet you here at 19.45.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, time is up. I've got some de facto notes here to start with. First of all, I have President Stanjura on the point of fact. Please, Prime Minister, you have two minutes. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I'll shut you down for two minutes. I ask that the Chamber of Deputies be calmed down so that President Stanjura can be heard. Prime Minister, I've been tracking for two minutes. Please. [[There's still a noisy atmosphere in the room.]] I'm sorry. Wait a minute, I'll turn off your stopwatch. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u99	Thank you for the floor. I think we're in a time emergency, because according to the reports I've received from members of your mandate and immune committee, they need at least another hour to act. We're already somewhere at 8:45 or just before 9:00. The day of the hearing shall end at 21.00. I have two suggestions. The first is procedural for us to interrupt this meeting by 14.00 Tuesday, which seems best to me, because if we continue tomorrow, they are on an interpelation program, and Friday is the first day of the presidential election, and I do not think it is appropriate for the Chamber of Deputies to sit down. If the House doesn't approve, I'm asking for a 45-minute break on behalf of the ODS Club, and I know that my colleagues from the other clubs will fill me in to fill the time by 2100 hours, but it seems rational to me that - and it was not the opposition that initiated the negotiations of the mandate and immunity committee - we should decide to interrupt this meeting by 14.00 on Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-001-001.u100	We have a procedural proposal here, so I will vote on it immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall prepare for the vote. We're seeing an application for check-out here, so I'm checking you all out. Please log in with your cards again. We have here the first procedural motion by President Stanjura to interrupt the current meeting by Tuesday next week until 14.00. I'm taking vote number six. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? End of vote. 166 Members are registered, for 150, against 10, with a delay of 6. He's accepted. I'm interrupting the meeting until 2:00 p.m. Tuesday. Have a lovely evening, and I'm looking forward to it next week.
