ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on waters and amending certain laws (water law), as amended, and Act No. 388/1991 Coll., on the State Environmental Fund of the Czech Republic, as amended /German press 45/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the draft law presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Environment will be stated by Richard Brabec. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u2	Well, thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I will be brief because I will not repeat what I said at the first reading when I introduced, I think, quite comprehensively the government proposal for the amendment to the Water Act. Let me just briefly remind you that, in addition to translating the relevant Water Framework Directive, which was inadequately implemented and mainly related to the deterioration of the state of the water bodies of surface or groundwater, and the possibility of responding to it, we also used this amendment to significantly reduce administration, administration or bureaucracy in the field of charges, thus meeting the conclusions of the ecoaudit. There is also a need to transfer the administration of fees from the Czech inspection, which should primarily play a control role, to the State Environmental Fund. The definition of waste water and other related matters is specified. On the committees, both on the Guarantee Committee on the Environment and on the Committee on Agriculture, there was a very comprehensive debate on this amendment with a number of amendments that were more or less creative, and I do not mean that ironically at all. I think that colleagues who will be speaking in a moment will be talking to these individual amendments, so I certainly would not want to evaluate them right now. In the meantime, there have been several other amendments, which have therefore been read quite recently, so we do not actually have a complete response to them. But I'm happy for the debate, and I'm sure I'm ready for it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee, and the press was ordered to the Committee on Agriculture, and the committee resolution was delivered to you as House press 45/1-3. Now, I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and, at the same time, the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr Karel Tureček, inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committees and of any amendments that may be justified. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to inform you that on 14 February the Guarantee Committee on the Environment discussed the Government's draft Water Act No. 254/2001 Sb. and adopted a resolution recommending the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the proposal as amended by the amendments adopted. I would simply briefly present the amendments. They repeated from the previous draft, when the water law in the previous parliamentary term was not enough to discuss. Firstly, the Committee on the Environment adopted amendments to Sections 30 and 102 concerning the issue of management in the sanitary protection zones and possible compensation for restrictions arising under the Regulation on restrictions on the management of sanitary protection zones. [[14.40 hours]] Furthermore, the Committee on the Environment adopted an amendment to Section 67, which allows camps, tent camps, flood zones to be set up under a limited regime, and also adopted amendments of a legislative technical nature and, on the one hand, to Section 89 and 49, addressing the issue of treatment of waste water in relief chambers or the treatment of imported waste water for sewage treatment plants. So much for the resolution of the Environment Committee. The day before that, on 13 February, this House press discussed 45 the agricultural committee, which adopted a resolution recommending to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the proposal as well as the amendments adopted. Of course, the amendments focused on the same issue concerning § 30, § 102 - that is the management in the sanitary protection zones, § 67 - that is the issue of setting up tent camps, and further adopted, beyond amendments which are no longer consistent with the Committee on the Environment, an amendment which addresses the transitional provisions for draught-free tanks, when it provides for a transitional period until 31. 12. 2021, and it is also the release of the possibility of exempting surface water for cooling purposes. So much, I would say, for discussion in these two committees of the Chamber of Deputies draft law. I would like to start by signaling that, in a detailed debate, I will make a proposal pursuant to Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1, when I would suggest shortening the deadline between second and third reading to seven days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u5	Thank you, Mr Member, and I am opening up a general debate to which four Members are currently enrolled. As Mr Staněk's first Member, Mrs Vrecionová will be prepared after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have entered into a general debate for two or three reasons, respectively. However, Mr Schiller's amendment has become an impulse for me in the Committee on the Environment. The proposed proposal seems to be of environmental interest to ensure that municipal sewage treatment plants are unable to receive water containing hazardous substances. In its reasoning, it calls for a draft of the considered waste water deliberately industrial waste in order to give the impression that such waste water does not actually belong to municipal sewage treatment plants. However, this completely ignores the fact that the classification of waste water occurs for traders and producers with a specific type of production pursuant to Section 5 of the Waste Act and the targeted control activity in this area according to Section 6 of the Waste Act belongs to the Czech Environmental Inspection under the Ministry of the Environment and thus ignores the fact that the intake of these waters is regulated on municipal waste water treatment plants within the operational order, which must be fully in line with the published water management decisions. In fact, the proposal affects three basic waste water groups, for which there is currently no alternative to dealing with them unless we count direct combustion. Firstly, they are directly produced waste water by traders or industrial enterprises, containing hazardous defective substances that cannot be discharged into the sewerage due to excessive pollution. These are waste water from various industrial products which do not meet the nature of liquid waste where the undertaking or the trader does not have, does not own or operates a specific industrial sewage treatment plant and available industrial sewage treatment plants do not have the capacity or adequate level of treatment of specific waste water. In all these cases, it is clearly more appropriate to transport water to the municipal sewage treatment plant. Secondly, it is waste water from waste treatment plants where waste water with residual content is produced in the treatment of liquid waste according to the existing permit, most often it is an integrated permit. In most cases, these waste water cannot be directly discharged into the sewerage and it is necessary to clean it with controlled dosing into the municipal sewage treatment plant process so as not to disrupt the cleaning process and also quality cleaning, in accordance with the applicable water management permit for a specific sewage treatment plant. [[is that what ……]] [[To?]] And thirdly, it's about landfill waters. These are mostly water from the remediation of old ecological loads, which are cleaned at the locality of the mobile remediation station and then released to municipal sewage treatment plants for cleaning. Among the most exposed municipal wastewater treatment plant to be touched by the design is the waste water treatment plant Pardubice, Prague, Otrokovice, Ústí nad Labem, Ostrava and the sewage treatment plant Pilsen, Havlíčkův Brod or Brno. The proposed amendment by the Member becomes an instrument which will cause absolute collapse in the field of external treatment of waste water. If even a single cleaner named above were to be banned from receiving these waste water, there is no real alternative. Businesses would have to drain the water again with a subsequent breach of the limit and would be disrupted by a steady system that is functional and when the waters are controlled, taken over and taken away for processing directly into sewage treatment plants with a follow-up assessment of the quality of waste water discharges. This proposal, with other parallel loads in environmental legislation, can become another imaginary nail in the coffin of the Czech industry and the waste management sector. At random: The highest fees for the storage of hazardous waste, the early ban on the storage of other municipal waste in 2024 and incinerators or recycling plants that are not being built and legislation is not being completed. Further falling prices for plastic recycling related to embargoes to China and more and more emerging problem about them. Furthermore, the current emission limits, stricter and stricter for energy, which are additional costs, plus the proposal for this waste water measure. Is it possible for the personal interest of the promoter to be so heavily burdened by the already tested industrial sector in the Czech Republic? Or is it an interest to force industrial enterprises under the pressure of such pseudo-conceptional changes, so that their waste water or liquid waste, which is further treated with unbearable charges, plow them for businesses, water them with waste water that will not be put anywhere, and overlap them with plastics that will not be recycled? On the basis of the above groups, the qualification of the problem represents more than 1,000 tonnes per day, i.e. 400,000 cubic metres per year, which represents only four hundred percent of the total amount of treated waste water from the amount of waste water cleaned on municipal sewage treatment plants. On the other hand, in the case of thermal disposal of these waste water, for example, an increase in costs for industry would be one billion crowns a year. The impact of the proposals is unimaginable. The petitioner did not consider where waste water would be carried instead of municipal sewage treatment plants. There are no alternative plants, technologies or industrial or chemical sewage treatment plants for them, which are, on the contrary, frequent producers and need to be cleaned themselves. It is precisely in order to prevent these unimaginable effects or to eliminate their consequences that I will submit my amendment if Mr Schiller's amendment is adopted, but I believe that it will be pointless, because common sense will prevail and the proposal of my fellow Member will not be accepted. But what do we know about the ways of common sense that they're taking? [[14.50 hours]] The second reason for my performance is much more prosaic. I was approached by fruit, ornamental and forest kindergarteners to interpret their opinion and support their several years of effort to amend the water law, namely § 101, in order not to charge the drawing of surface water for irrigation of kindergarten production. I am doing this in particular because the Association of Kindergarteners of the Czech Republic, the Forest Kindergarteners Association and the Kindergarten Association of Fruit Union were not addressed in the interreort commentary proceedings. I would like to stress that the producers of kindergartens do not want to change the new regulations in any way, but on the occasion of the water law they demand to amend § 101, whose current ambiguous interpretation puts them at a disadvantage compared to other growers. According to the Act on Agriculture, kindergartens fall into agricultural production, but due to the absence of an explanation of the term "agricultural crop', they are not currently subject to the exemption for free drawing of surface water on the balance of the moisture deficit, which is currently being addressed in Section 101. For this reason, following long-term communication with the Ministry of Agriculture, it appears to be the easiest solution to refine the regulation in paragraph 4 by adding the words "including nursery crops." Nursery plants are grown mainly for domestic use, both for forests and for the landscape. Forests have an important economic function, but also due to the extra-production functions of forest vegetation and other plantings in the landscape, such as water management, climate and social recreation, this greenery has a high social significance. Approximately 85 percent of forest crops are wooded after mining with so-called artificial restoration, planting material from kindergarten. Water pumped from surface sources is mainly used in kindergartens for growing small plants or for dressing freshly replanted plants in kindergarten. It also serves to protect production from spring frosts, which appear almost annually in recent years. It follows that water is not irrigated all year round and drained water gets mostly back into the waterworks thanks to the normal cycle in the soil. It is also not damaged in any way, e.g. Unlike the pumping of water for preparation of technical snow, which also falls within the exceptions for free pumping of water. The damage caused by drought in recent years by kindergartens as well as other growers has been unspeakably marked and it can be assumed that such climatic extremes will increase. For these reasons, I agree with the requirement of kindergartens to specify the regulation in Section 101 so that its interpretation is clear and the producers of nursery crops have the same conditions for drawing surface water as other farmers of agricultural crops. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u7	Thank you. Now, in the general debate, Mrs Vrecionová will speak, followed by Mr Kott. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u8	Hello. Mr President, Minister, colleagues, I wish you a good afternoon or a start this afternoon. I would like to start by saying that I think it is a great pity that, in the case of this law, the House has approved a hearing within a short period of time, because it is a very complicated material. Even the Minister himself said that a large number of amendments are actually being prepared here, and the law is really very complicated, complex and there are a number of problematic things. I just didn't think it was appropriate to vote for the short deadline. So let me just comment on some of these - because the Prime Minister roughly summed up the basic material - some amendments. First, an amendment, which I will apply to in a detailed debate, but I will say a little bit about it, and then I will not delay it. This is a very simple amendment, which my colleagues and I have written and which addresses the revenue from the charges for the collected amount of groundwater, which is divided under the current law: 50 per cent of the revenue from the budget of the region concerned and 50 per cent of the revenue from the budget of the State Environmental Fund. We would very much like to make such a small adjustment, so that 10 per cent of the total amount becomes the income of the municipal budget, and thus 45 per cent of the income of the State Environmental Fund and 45 per cent would remain the region. The point is that, in fact, those municipalities in whose territory underground water is collected are very affected by this fact, are limited to their development and in their management, because, as a general rule, these groundwater are actually protected by a protection zone, and we think and we firmly believe that it should actually be a natural matter, which, when those municipalities are limited because of higher social interests, should receive at least some compensation. So then I would ask you to support this amendment. I don't want to talk about this kindergarten anymore, that's what my previous speaker said. Mr Zahradník also tabled an amendment in this spirit, which I would like very much to support. Then there is another amendment, which we also propose together with our colleague, Honza Zahradník, and which he will certainly comment on in detail. The point is that we would very much like to leave enough water in the watercourse to use the river for recreational purposes. There is currently such a problem that e.g. owners of small hydro power plants actually take part of water from the watercourse for their needs and the riverbed remains often, or in some sections, with a very small amount of water and then it is not possible to sail on the water. So that's what we think. I think even the representatives of the watermen turned to a number of colleagues. We believe that there are some 670 000 watermen in this country, and water tourism also generates large turnovers, and it would be very good to support this amendment. I'd ask you very much. Then I would also like to talk about the amendments that have been adopted on the Committee on Agriculture, but actually partly on the Committee on the Environment. I wanted to ask the rapporteur very much, then, when we vote on those amendments at third reading, whether it would be possible to divide them. At the very least, I am concerned with the amendment, which actually addresses the compensation in the sanitary protection zone, which should actually apply to the owners at the moment, and the amendment extends it to the tenants, thus making the landowner equal to the tenant. I would have a problem with this amendment. On the contrary, I welcome all the others. I would very much like it if we could separate this vote at the vote - but I will ask that, of course, at the third reading. On the contrary, I would very much like to support the tent camps, but at the same time there is also a problem that solves light water, which we will probably also talk about, when this amendment can be used for sewer operators and owners - this may actually result in large costs related to technology. I agree with the amendment, as it mentions, but I firmly believe that there is a need to give owners more time. Therefore, I would very much welcome the possibility of delaying effectiveness in this part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u9	Thank you, Madame. Mr Kott will now speak in the general debate, Mr Zahradník will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u10	Hello. Mr President, my dear colleagues, to a certain extent, my colleague Staněk presented a large part of the justification for my amendment. I, together with my colleague Jurečka, submit the same amendment concerning forest kindergartens, where it is really a matter that we have already tried to put into law in the last parliamentary term. It fell out again in the current version. So we're also considering that preschool crops, both forest and ornamental and fruit, belong here and deserve our attention. So I will then refer, in a detailed debate, to my amendment, which I have prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u11	Thank you. Mr Zahradník will now appear, President Bartošek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u12	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I have come here to present actually four amendments that I have put into the system for the amendment to the Water Act. I have already discussed this in the general debate, to what extent the law in some of its provisions can affect the functioning of water infrastructure in the smallest municipalities, especially in water treatment plants and lightening tanks, which solve some of the problems of water management. I was talking about the fact that the legislator did not carry out a sufficient economic analysis of those measures, particularly those that would affect the capacity of sewage treatment plants and, where appropriate, those that would analyse the burden on citizens by these measures. That is why there are some proposals that will then try not to solve these problems, but at least to take them into account. To take it one step at a time. My first proposal, which I put into the system, concerns the problem of sailing, namely, the recreational cruise and its large part, the sailing of sports boats, canoes, rafts, kayaks, along our streams. This has already been discussed by my colleague Veronika Vrecionová, with whom we have jointly prepared this proposal, and who is trying to resolve this problem by adapting § 36, namely paragraphs 1 and 2, which make it necessary to take account, inter alia, of the possibilities of recreational navigation into account in determining the minimum residual flow, and also to give this obligation to the Water Authority, in order to take account of the possibilities of recreational navigation into account when allowing the minimum flow. My colleague Vrecionová said quite in detail. Water tourism is an increasing and larger aspect and a share in the economy, there are turnovers of billions of crowns, whether in the form of various boat rentals, recreational facilities, restaurant facilities on streams, and the popularity of water tourism is considerable. The truth is that for some rivers under water bodies due, among other things, large collections of power plants and equipment water is not enough for navigation. So taking into account the possibility of recreational sailing is, in our view, the appropriate instrument that could enable the flow manager to get to the water distribution in the watercourses as well. My next proposal concerns the problem of kindergarteners. However, this one was very detailed in the reasoning of Mr Staněk. I believe that his proposal supported by the background of his political party will have hope. We'll support him. However, I will leave my proposal embedded in the system, and in a detailed debate I will apply to it. It must be said that the section 101, which addresses the problem of exemption from the charge for the consumption of surface water to irrigation in agriculture, is not part of our amendment, so a new amendment point will have to be made, but it certainly has Staněk's proposal taken into account. Even the reasons that lead to the fact that I took this proposal and put it forward are the same as the reasons that Staněk here has already said when submitting the proposal. My other proposal concerns the charges for the collection of groundwater and therefore, specifically, it is already interfering with the current amendment point 49, which sets out in Section 88b the method of exemption from the charge for the collection of groundwater. The proposed text, which we have in our amendment, says that from the charge for the collected amount of groundwater, the removal of groundwater by the taxpayer in the territory of one municipality or military escape, which does not exceed 6 000 m3 per calendar year or does not exceed 500 m3 in each month of the calendar year. This text allows interpretation, and at the committee's meeting I was even assured that this would indeed be the case, which, in my opinion, allows the illogical impact of this paragraph. According to him, the body, the institution that takes 5 999 m3 of groundwater per year, would be exempt from the charge, whereas the institution that would take away 6 001 or 6 100 m3 per year would have to charge the entire volume. Since the users of this exemption from the charge are mainly small municipalities, which have their water resources in the form of wells from which they draw drinking water, they would certainly have to feel this impact. Just to imagine, 6,000 m3 of water, that's roughly a year's supply of 120 to 150 people, so it's quite a big deal, and it would mean a lot to the community, which it would probably put into the price of delivering the water to individual citizens. For this reason, I proposed a new text for § 88b, which reads: "The charge for the collected amount of groundwater is exempted from the collection of groundwater by the taxpayer in the territory of one municipality or military escape up to 6 000 m3 per calendar year or up to 500 m3 in each month of the calendar year'. So, in my opinion, this text gives this provision some logic. Whoever takes 5 999 m3 will be released, who takes 6 100 ccs a year, so only the 100 m3 will be charged. And that, in my opinion, is correct both in terms of the incentive effect of the provision and in terms of its logic, and that is why I have tabled this proposal and then, in a detailed debate, I will sign up to it. [[15.10 hours]] Finally, my last proposal - and my colleague Veronika Vrecionová also spoke of it - concerns those parts of the law that talk about waste water and its disposal. It's the subject of paragraph 38 in the amendment, specifically paragraphs 8 and 3. Paragraph 8 introduces the obligation for individual premises to export waste pits to sewage treatment plants where such water must be cleaned. A report on this must be issued that the owner of the waste pit will have to archive in order to submit it to the inspection authorities during the inspection. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] It's what - for decades, I don't know, maybe centuries, but more like decades, the last few centuries I don't know - has been the contents of the cesspool exported to the field. There it contributed to complementing the loss of organic matter, which is increasingly being recorded by our farmers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u13	[[He's coming in.]] Dear Member, I apologise, but the noise in the Chamber is reaching a level that prevents the correct continuation of the general debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to maintain a certain collegiate to those who speak and to those who listen to the speaker. Thank you. Please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u14	Vice-President, thank you for your intervention. For me, the old cantor, it's not such a problem to scream the undisciplined class, as well as using the House's microphone. [[President: However, it is my role, so I took it up with her.]] I won't allow myself to use that adjective of the undisciplined. To talk about an undisciplined House, no way. It is disciplined by principle, and as a legislative body it is always right - what it does is right. But then I will try to speak more interestingly and more colorfully next time to draw the attention of not only Minister Brabec, but also of the rest of you. But now, Mr Vice-President, you've caused me to lose my thread somehow. No, no, I'll find that thread again, don't worry, don't worry. Yes, it's there - the cesspools that were exported to the field using a car whose name we also know and whose common folk name I would never dare use here. That won't be possible anymore. Today's time is moving forward very quickly. By the way, also in how we may perceive the dangers that may come from our nature. It just won't be possible anymore. It is not known how we will supply organic matter to the soil that disappears due to the excessive cultivation of energy crops and soil exhaustion. The sludge from the dry cleaners can neither be landfilled nor transported to the field. No one knows what's going to happen to them either. It's a problem, but unfortunately, this law cannot be explicitly addressed. Well, at least we'll try to figure it out so that those who then pay for it, and that's the administrators and owners of the devices, don't have to pay too much. So this section 38 para. 8 speaks of the exceptions. I think he has to stay in that law. I don't think it's possible to have a fight with the correctness. However, I would still like to join the proposal tabled by Mr Jiří Běhounek, who extends efficiency or takes effect for this paragraph from 1 January 2019 to 1 January 2021. Here I thank Mr Běhounka for presenting it. I'll join him. So that's the 38th paragraph. I'm not submitting eight. However, I note that there is a similar problem in the case of the next paragraph, that is paragraph 3, which definitely states that the collision waters in the joint sewer are becoming waste water and must be cleaned and it is not possible that they are released into the flow of any diluted, almost free of all possible negative waste, during a major collision incident. It's just that it's bothering the cleaners, too. The community will feel both of these paragraphs about the lack of cleaning capacity. It may be necessary to build new cleaners, increase their capacity, and those small communities I am talking about will probably not be able to secure in a short time. However, I would still ask that we do likewise with this paragraph 3, as with that paragraph 8, that is to postpone its effectiveness until 1 January 2021. I want to achieve this by giving an exception to the provisions of Article 1, point 21, Paragraph 38 (2) into the final, very last text of the law, which sets out the effectiveness. 3 and then also the amendment point 22, which cuts the existing exemption that applied to the precipitation waters. According to the existing diction of the law of precipitation water flowing into the joint sewerage were not considered as waste water. So if we postpone this amendment point, then the absence of a new text in Section 3 will be replaced by a check of the exception that does not call rainwater. So these are my four proposals, which I have justified here, and I will take the liberty of signing up for them in a detailed debate afterwards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. It is now time for President Bartošek to speak in the general debate, and Mrs Krutáková will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My performance will be quite short. It concerns an amendment which is included in the system under number 382 and concerns entry into the first protection zone. According to Article 30 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 7 Water law is prohibited entry and entry into This does not apply only to persons who have the right to extract water from the water supply and to water reservoirs for persons who own these waterworks. Lands other than those mentioned above, such as forest land, are normally located in the first water protection zone. The owners are then denied the basic right to dispose of their property. At the same time, the wording of the Act does not allow access to the first protection zone or to the authorities of state administration and state authority. Landowners must be allowed to hold their property within the limits of the protection conditions laid down in the declaration of the protection zone by law. In the original version of the Water Act, admission was granted to authorised persons. The present provision of § 30 para. 7 may be unconstitutional. For this reason, I propose that the text be supplemented by persons in the exercise of the rights and obligations laid down by law, in the parentheses of the entitled person. The full text is given in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u17	Thank you. Mrs Jana Krutáková is the last member of the general debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the amendment which is in the system under the number 401. It concerns the amendment points 11, 51 and 53. So you can find it in full under this number 401. The draft amendment to the Water Act takes account of the relevant provisions of Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2000 establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy. On this basis, a two-stage evaluation of the possibility of deterioration or failure to achieve good condition should be introduced for the purpose of the water body concerned. Assessment of whether there will be, deterioration or failure to achieve good condition and subsequent granting or failure to grant an exemption. The law thus undoubtedly pursues the legitimate objective of protecting water bodies, but at the same time it must be stressed that the fulfilment of this objective should not adversely affect buildings in the public interest or the business environment, particularly in the field of construction and development of the territory. [[15.20 hours]] The Framework Directive requires Member States to ensure the so-called two-stage evaluation of the possibility of deterioration or failure to achieve good condition by the intention of the water body concerned and the subsequent decision to grant or not to grant an exception to the implementation of the project. However, this biphasic nature of the assessment process does not necessarily mean that these steps should be carried out at different levels of water law authorities, as envisaged by the proposal of the Government amendment to the Water Act. If, in the first stage, the water authorities were to carry out an assessment at the level of the municipal authorities of the municipalities with an extended scope and in the second stage of the regional authorities, this would in fact mean that the authorities of the second stage would have to reacquaint themselves with all the documents already available to the first degree authority and would ultimately result in further disproportionate and unnecessary extension of the follow-up procedures. The amendment seeks to prevent this result. In doing so, a review of the consents issued, observations and binding opinions of the water authorities, which will necessarily take place in the context of the follow-up proceedings and a review of the decisions taken therein, shall not be excluded. So much to justify my amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u19	Thank you, Madame. Other applications to the general debate have not been received or I do not see anyone reporting to the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. Would the Minister or the rapporteur please wish to speak with the final word? Yes, I do. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It'll be a very short word. Thank you for the debate. Given the number of amendments that have not even been discussed, some logically or the Committee on the Environment, we have agreed with the rapporteur that we will not propose a shortening of the deadline between second and third reading, because I want the amendments to be really important, although I do not agree with some of them, or we do not agree, but we want the time to discuss this well and that the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee should still be able to discuss them calmly and seriously, which is why I have decided to do so with the rapporteur and I hope that this will be in the interests of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u21	Thank you, Minister. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Nine Members have applied for the floor, and Mrs Balcarová will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u22	Good afternoon, Mr President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I declare my amendment, which is read under No. 373, and I'd like to introduce him briefly. The aim of the amendment is to allow civil societies and initiatives to take part in administrative proceedings in the decision-making of water structures. These associations were removed in 2012, they were deprived of this right, and it is actually a process that we see now, when the state is actually trying to prevent the associations from taking part in the decision-making process. We saw this at the amendment to the Construction Act, at the amendment to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, where associations were taken away from the possibility of taking part in the authorisation to cut trees outside the forest, and in the management of the EIA. My amendment should be one of the steps that will restore this right to citizens. Pirates are trying to protect freedom and democracy, and public participation in decision-making is one of these steps. So my amendment is about that. Here is an example on which I would like to demonstrate how valuable and beneficial public participation in administrative proceedings can be for water structures. A specific example is that in the municipality of Lužice in the Ústecký Region, the local association participated only by mistake of the administrative authority in the approval procedure of the water construction. It was a revitalization of ponds. And by pointing out that in the area of ponds that were to be launched as part of the revitalization, the locality with specially protected species is actually preventing the site from being destroyed. And I would very much like the participation of the associations not to be merely an accident, but to be a right to which they will be entitled. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u23	Thank you. Mr David Pražák came forward with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u24	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not delay at all. I've already told the committee, but I feel the need to say it here to make it sound. The waterwork is not only a pond, it is not only a reservoir and similar bodies, but the waterwork is also any sewerage, water supply in any smaller or larger village. And if we vote that various associations and civil associations will be able to participate in any proceedings during these constructions, then, above all, the mayors of the smaller municipalities will do nothing at that time, because the civil associations will sign up for any sewerage or plumbing construction and it will stop them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u25	Thank you. We will continue with the detailed debate. Member Staněk is signed in, and Mrs Vrecionová will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, rapporteur, fellow Members, I think I have spoken quite in detail in the general debate about two amendments. So now I would only apply to my amendments, which are inserted into the system, namely the amendment, which is inserted as House document 385 and concerns the adaptation of § 101 para. 4 of Law No. 254/2001 Sb., and these are the kindergarten plants. I would also like to sign up for my second amendment, which is inserted into the system as House Document 388 on the Government Bill under discussion. It concerns § 16 - Authorisation for discharge of waste water containing a particularly dangerous defective substance or priority hazardous substances into the sewerage or sewage treatment plant. I would also like to thank you very much for any support. I feel that as far as kindergartens are concerned, it is across the parliamentary clubs, and at the same time I would like to thank the Minister for his very helpful step and extending the debate to the standard way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u27	Before we continue to enter into the detailed debate, Mrs Balcarová's factual remark will follow. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u28	Thank you for giving me the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond to a colleague who has been talking about the fact that the associations are extending the administrative procedure. I'd say that's a very used argument, but he's actually completely odd. The associations shall have the same period as all other parties and shall only issue their opinions in administrative proceedings. And it depends on whether or not the administrative authority recognizes their objection or comment and works it out or not. According to the statistics and numbers we have, they have been processed by Masaryk University, both by associations entering administrative proceedings to authorise any construction very rarely, because it is both administratively and professionally very difficult for them. It's about 0.7 percent. In 0,7 % the associations participate in administrative proceedings. This means that they are not the ones who extend administrative proceedings, but rather the officials who make mistakes, they are investors and project promoters who have so many errors in the documentation that in the framework of the removal of errors and complementing documentation, the procedure is being extended. And then it's also the fault of the courts that last a very long time if they're evaluating something. So I'd like to make this right. Indeed, it is not the associations' fault that administrative proceedings last so long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u29	Mr Pražák's point of fact follows. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u30	I apologize to the rapporteur on behalf of the President. I don't have statistical indicators, etc., I have the reality that it is. It's just any association or civil association that ever logged in or applied to those smaller communities, so it just sticks to them. Period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u31	It is now Mrs Vrecionová's turn in the detailed debate, Mr Kott will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u32	Thank you. Hello again, everyone. I have already updated the amendments in the general debate, so I would like to sign up here for Amendment 395. This is the one that concerns the proceeds of the charges for the removal of the amount of groundwater. I think I've already explained it in detail in the general debate, so I guess I don't have to go twice now. The second amendment is the one that we are proposing with Mr Jan Zahradník, that is Amendment 377 and concerns the minimum residual flow in rivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u33	Thank you. Mr Kott, in a detailed debate, will be heard by Mr Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, too, would like to subscribe to House Document 398, and it is an amendment that I, together with Mr Marian Jurečka, tabled in relation to kindergarten crops, as has been said here in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u35	Yes. Mr Zahradník is next, followed by Mr Koníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u36	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, before I exercise my right to sign up to the amendment, I would first like to mention the debate that has been going on here for a while between the Chair of our Committee, Mrs Balcarová and Mr Pražák from the same committee. I agree, of course, with what my colleague Pražák says, that associations of environmental activists can very significantly block the promotion of various buildings from those small to those large types of Elbe or various motorways, on which there may still be a kind of judicial seal imposed on them by various environmental civil associations or under the new Civil Code by environmental associations. Therefore, it is good that the participation of the associations be precisely defined by law. That's what this building bill amendment does, which we approved well back then. And I must say that when Mrs Balcarová's amendment is discussed at third reading, I will, of course, recommend a negative vote. But I can't forgive myself for that kind of sigh right now. And those who have been here in this House in the past period are well aware that I have made a very significant point in discussing these dangers during the amendment to the law or assessing the environmental impact, the EIA Act, which was then discussed several times, long, long months of commentation, enforced, pushed, eventually approved, and then MEPs for the ANO movement have a very significant share of the fact that it is the environmental activists who are given enormous power, have a huge scope and have no responsibility. So I am glad that you are changing your views in this regard, only, unfortunately, that this view, through Mr President to Mr Pražák, was not held by those who preceded you here in this House and who are responsible for the EIA Act, which is quite infamously affecting our economy. About your designs. The amendment on sailing was adopted by my colleague Veronika Vrecionová. I said I'd sign up for the kindergarten crop proposal, i.e. therefore, that I am applying to House document 376 under which my amendment is registered. I said the reasoning in the general debate, in my opinion. I also apply to a proposal which is registered as House document 374 and which concerns the setting of fees, respectively. exceptions to the payment of the charges for the collection of groundwater, and finally, I also apply to my proposal concerning the effectiveness of our entire law, in particular its two paragraphs, and which is registered as House Document No 400. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u37	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u38	Thank you for the floor. I would like, through Mr President, to respond to the mention of the Elbe lakes, because specifically in Přelouč, which is in my constituency and where I know it very well, there is currently a tunnel for three billion, where we will completely needlessly excavate three billion to navigate the Elbe to Pardubice, but it has no economic logic. After all, coal to Chvaletic also rides the railroad. Well, I hope these associations can stop this nonsense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u39	We are continuing the detailed debate. Mr Koníček, Mr Holomčík will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to subscribe to House document 399, in which I propose a new determination of the fee or a distribution of the charge for the amount of groundwater taken. The current and proposed form of the law does not deal fairly with the situation where the charges for groundwater collection are equally divided between the relevant regions and the State Environmental Fund, but none of them directs directly to the budget of the municipalities on whose land water is collected. In so doing, the municipalities concerned are limited by this fact in their management and development and should therefore receive part of the fees, as is the case with the fees and payments made to municipalities under the Mining Act and the Waste Act. I propose 5 percent for the community's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u41	Mr Holomčík is next, followed by President Bartošek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u42	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apply to House Document No 383, which concerns the amendment of § 28. This paragraph concerns protected areas of natural water accumulation, and this amendment is intended to introduce even more consistent protection. The relevant reasons are precisely to increase the protection of protected areas of natural water accumulation, in which water interests should take precedence over other economic activities such as: extraction of minerals in a surface manner which is directly contrary to the interests of water management, as it results in an increase or may increase the vulnerability of the water body used and cannot be ruled out even a deterioration of the quality of the water received. The whole document, as I was saying, is to be found under number 383 and I beg your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u43	President Bartošek will now speak in a detailed debate, and Mrs Krutáková will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u44	Thank you. I refer to the amendment, which is listed in the system under number 382. As I said in the general debate, it concerns the possibility of entry into Level I protection zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u45	Thank you. Mrs Krutáková, after her will be Mr Kobza.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u46	Thank you. I would simply like to sign up for an amendment which is in the system under the number 401 and concerns the amendment of the Act in Sections 17 and 107. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u47	Thank you. Mr Kobza withdraws his application. But in the meantime, the rapporteur, Mr Turek, has entered into a detailed debate. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would just like to apply to my two amendments, which are read in the system as documents listed under 386 and 387. In one case, it is a more precise amendment defining the exemption from the fee for the fee period. In the latter case, it is an extension of the authorisation to issue the Decree, when it is proposed that the Decree should also address the model of the application to the Water Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-010-002.u49	Thank you. I do not have any further applications for a detailed debate here, nor do I see anyone reporting for a detailed debate yet, so I am ending the detailed debate. Again, I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur is interested in the final word. Neither of them have. And since the amended proposal to shorten the deadline for third reading has not been made here, we do not need to vote on any proposals and I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Next we proceed to the fixed point
