ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u1	United debate on paragraphs 13, 14, 15 / House prints 35, 111, 117/
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u2	At the moment, Mrs Helena Válková, who I hereby give the floor, is entered into the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will not repeat what I said yesterday, just hopefully - don't be frightened, I don't want to have the so-called last word, or the mention of my name, there was probably a technical error last time, so please remove my name as at the end of the general debate. I would just like to point out that the YES movement, although it does not yet have the proposal prepared, is ready to participate in the comprehensive amendment, and, given that we have devoted quite a lot of time to this, I think it is appropriate to say some of the parameters that have a chance for us to do so when we discuss it, if we refer the proposals, as I mentioned last night, to the next reading, so that we at least try to succeed. Of course, I say again in front of the parentheses...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u4	I'm sorry, Madam. I will ask my colleagues who need to discuss something and cancel the deputies to go to the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u5	I understand that not everyone must be interested in what the constitutional law on a national referendum will look like, especially in a situation where the three proposals put forward are relatively different in those basic parameters. On the other hand, by talking about it so openly here, we can already make a prelude for our own working debate, which I hope will take place in the committees. You know I'm still optimistic. Thus, as far as the YES movement is concerned, what has been said very clearly several times in the media, forcefully and repeatedly, is that we do not want international treaties to be the subject of referendums, which are already relatively well-adjusted, and those for which a constitutional majority of ratifications are needed, by which certain powers and competences are transferred to other institutions outside the Czech Republic, or we do not want them to be adapted to be the subject of a referendum. We think that we would have dubbed the modification, and we do not see the reason, because already § 10a para. 2 allows such a procedure. However - I will always say however, to make you understand why I am relatively optimistic. However, this is a situation where, if any of the parties involved - and I am referring here to those who will promote their parameters as a political party - will consider it a conditio sine qua non, a condition without which the law would not be passed, so we are willing to make certain concessions. To make it clear, for example, that we are going to repeat the regime, the one we already have in the Constitution, so the wording would be repeated and it would be the content of the constitutional law on a national referendum, which would, in principle, be possible, but on tighter terms, to vote on such a subject of referendum, but we would not have left the limits now enshrined in the Constitution. First point. Another concerns the number of petents that would be entitled to initiate a referendum from the citizens of the Czech Republic, and also, of course, the question of whether, in addition to citizens, it could be, for example, a Parliament or a government. So the ANO movement will also be waiting here for the debate to take place. However, we think that the proposal put forward by social democracy, the social democratic bill on the national referendum, is built too harshly and could in practice lead to a referendum never happening. So we agree with the critical comments of those who point to this, however, the golden center, which we see about 400 thousand, 500 thousand, I think it would be good to preserve and at the same time not to stretch the time for a year, even two years, but to limit it by the usual deadline within six months, as is also needed in other European legislations. So maybe we'd imagine there'd be at least 400 thousand. signatures in a period of six months. Here is a stimulating subject on the part of the pirát, who warns that, in such a case, the six months should be counted from the moment when the Constitutional Court - one of the options that I personally consider to be very good - will examine constitutionality through the optics of the constitutional order of the question so that it does not happen to us, that there will be a solemn referendum and someone will object and the Constitutional Court will only drop the whole result because it does not comply formally, the question has not passed through the constitutional standard. So only from the moment that the Constitutional Court is needed here, if we decide to use this instrument to make sure that the outcome is conformary from the Constitutional point of view, when the decision is made that the question is admissible, then at that point the six months to collect the 400 thousand would be counted. Up to 500 thousand. signatures. So you can see that we're also discounting here because we said about 700 thousand, 800 thousand, but after expert seminars, when you hear what it looks like in the countries where they have these numbers right now, I think we don't want to, certainly the ANO movement doesn't want to adopt a law that we're only going to have on paper. We are also concerned about how this is enchanted by some other political parties, the SPD, the KSČM, the Pirates, that they want a viable law. We want him, too. Nothing more than something that really doesn't work in practice. So we'd be willing to go up to, like, 400,000, but after the debate. The next question is who, apart from the citizens of the Czech Republic, should be the one who can still initiate, if ever, a referendum. We think that Members and Senators are an option. Why couldn't they initiate a referendum? Again in the discussion that went away and which you could become participants in, these possibilities were also expressed as justified in terms of foreign experience. Then why be afraid of it? I would certainly reject the criticism that Members will help each other through this and hide alibisfully behind the results of the people's vote. For example, we had the bill that would break the strict ban on smoking in public food spaces, restaurant facilities. So why not, if there were to be three fifths of Members or half of the senators who wanted it, I think that is exactly the question that could become the subject of a referendum. And, of course, I don't think so, I'm based on the results of the expert debates that have already taken place. The other question is, should it be the government? We have not yet reached consensus on this. I think this should be the subject of committee discussions. We're not counting on it yet. Another such important issue is whether a referendum is to be binding or non-binding. The YES movement clearly states that a binding, non-binding referendum and public research need not be adopted by constitutional law. And we think that for it to be valid and binding, at least one third of the citizens who are entitled to vote in the referendum should take part in it. [[12.30 hours]] There is no clear view of this either, but I can guarantee you one thing, that during the discussions that we have actually held since December, since the SPD submitted the first draft of this constitutional standard, the discussions have come close. And I think that consensus can be achieved. We also agreed that we should also regulate the referendum campaign, that it must have its limits and that we must not underestimate these so-called technical matters and that there will be a need for the interrelationship of this constitutional law to other legislation. Since I have promised my colleagues that I will not inform here for an hour about something that is not yet so far when we are talking, I mean this comprehensive amendment, about three different standards that have been introduced here more or less, and that there have also been criticisms of the opposition or those who disagree with them, the proponents of the law, and this general debate is open to these standards, so I will limit my interpretation to the fact that I believe that by voting, by means of a means of further committee work, we should move all three proposals from first reading to second reading, because the parameters that it has been processed are the most consistent with those common to our ideas, the proposal that has presented social democracy. Of course, I know that there may still be a battle for a number of parameters that I have not mentioned here, but I think that the most important and most controversial, that is, the negative questions that cannot be put to referendum in the law, so I mentioned them. And here, much will depend on whether the efforts and will of those who have already submitted their proposals will be made to retreat from their positions. Then I think we have a chance to adopt a comprehensive amendment, and it will be proof that this House, when it comes to such fundamental questions, when each party is stuck with it, is able to make concessions. And all of this with the aim of having a viable, viable, viable, good new instrument that predicts our Constitution from the moment it was approved, or indeed since 1993. It would be good, therefore, if we had finally fulfilled the relevant provision and if we had ever given up one of those petitioners and certain political ambitions for the benefit of one party, and that concession had been made. But I would not like this speech to come to the conclusion that what is presented is not negotiable and that a new joint proposal should be prepared immediately. Once again, I'm politically realistic enough to know that the plaintiffs are not going to step forward. But since I have participated in practically all the negotiations and not only those which have taken place under the direction of the Permanent Commission for the Amendment of the Constitution, which was perfectly managed by Mrs Valachová, but also by the previous informal working debates, let me show that the optimism that I have and which convinces me that I think, first, I would recommend it to you to move them to second reading, and secondly, I think that we have a unique and historical opportunity to prove that we are really interested in extending our citizens' participation in the democratic form of government, from which so many other parties or some, not so much, but some political parties are really concerned. I'm not worried about it. Because if, for example, we put in place the requirement to control the questions raised in the referendum by the Constitutional Court, and if we have a few limits there to prevent this from becoming an instrument of populism and abuse, then I think that, as a quality constitutional standard, our law could stand in practice. I certainly do not think that the only way is to adopt a law that they have now, for example, in Lithuania and in a number of other countries, or even in Slovakia, where they built it so strictly that it does not actually work, or it only works very rarely and in absolutely exceptional situations. I'm looking forward to the debate, too, if it happens. I think that there will be a lot of testing for the real, not only the media and political willingness to prepare the law so that we can find the necessary constitutional majority for it here in the Chamber of Deputies and also to find a favourable response, virtually. supporters to be a constitutional majority in the Senate, because, as you know, this standard needs to be approved by a constitutional majority both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate. It's still running for a longer mile, but we're at the very beginning. And I guess I'm not wrong to assume now that the first step will be the vote that will show us whether we really want a constitutional law on a national referendum, or whether it's just political talk from political parties that won't actually do anything about it. Finally, Mr President, my dear colleagues, I would like to recommend that all three proposals, although knowing that some things are unacceptable to us, I say this now for the YES movement, for example, the subject of a referendum cannot be the state budget, taxes and fees, as I said yesterday... But in order for everyone to have the same chance to participate in the preparation of a comprehensive amendment, so that we can move forward to second reading, agree on compromises and prepare a standard that will have the quality of a constitutional law, which will not be questioned in practice by not being able to proceed according to it. I think we're well on our way. And I thank the petitioners, too. For the YES movement, I would therefore like to thank all three translators for taking this initiative and for having courageously taken up their proposals, although we do not agree more with some of them, with some less, they have put forward to the House and opened this legitimate debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u6	Thank you, Madame. Your performance brought up three factual points. First of all, Mr Rakušan, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Ferjenčík, is registered with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to thank the former Minister of Justice for a very thorough analysis of all three proposals. I think that this has clearly been beneficial for the debate, and with many arguments and reservations against at least the two proposals she has made, we fully identify, for example, the possibility of voting on the state budget, taxes, foreign policy direction of the Czech Republic and so on. However, what we cannot identify with, and I have already raised the reservation here yesterday, is that all three proposals are to be made for further discussion without the government of the Czech Republic, which now sits behind our backs in its new composition, to come up with some proposal, its position on this matter. If that is not the case, I would like to call on the new Minister of Justice at this point. The former Minister has already given us her very erudized legal opinion, and I would expect an equally erudized legal opinion from the new Minister of Justice. And by this I would like to ask her in this changed reality of today, we have a new government to comment on the subject as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u8	Thank you. Another factual point - Mr Ferjenčík, then Mr Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u9	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond to that comment about the authority to draw up a referendum that institutions are supposed to have on the design authorisation. It is precisely that the SPD proposal and the KSČM proposal give the government the opportunity to draw up a referendum that we consider to be one of the most problematic points of their proposals, because it really allows the Czech Republic to switch from parliamentary democracy to presidential democracy, especially in combination with the SPD proposal, which allows laws to be passed in the referendum, that their proposal allows the government to rule without confidence through referendums, and we do not consider that appropriate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u10	Thank you. Another factual point - Mr. Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u11	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that, of course, many of what Mrs Válková said here can be identified, but I do not fully understand why we should continue with all three proposals. Maybe I know the reason. Just a new government, installed today, will need to rely on KSČM's votes and the SPD's votes, that works here eventually. But if that's the only reason we're supposed to put all three suggestions into the next reading, I don't think that's the right move. On the contrary, it would be worth considering whether such a fundamental constitutional standard should indeed not be prepared by a new government, and then, from my perspective, it would be the best step, the best way. Or let go of the one proposal that even from the discussion to the Constitutional Commission seemed to be the most compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u12	Thank you. This dealt with all the factual points. Next, Mrs Valachová is enrolled in the debate. Let me read your apologies. Mr Radim Fiala apologizes for today's work-related meeting, and he apologizes to . Andrej Babiš from 12.30 pm until the end of the day for business reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me, as the last one, to sum up my position as Chair of the Permanent Commission on the Constitution, even though, of course, some of the conclusions of the Permanent Commission on the Constitution have been raised here from the mouths of honourable colleagues who are members of the Permanent Commission or who are in charge of the Permanent Commission. The first thing I want to emphasise is that the issue of the national general referendum as the Constitutional Institute, with which our Constitution counts and which is still incomplete from the point of view of how citizens can and could comment on issues of public interest, has been addressed at this moment only as an institution of the House of Permanent Commission for the Constitution, several times during the last six months, as well as under the auspices of this Permanent Commission and the Committee on Petitions, which was the task of this Chamber of Deputies to discuss all the subjects, as has already been the result of the three proposals submitted to amend the general referendum. This has, of course, been the case, and I must therefore say that, on the basis of these, in particular, expert discussions, on the basis of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, the opinion actually prevailed that the principles of the national general referendum should come first of all from the proposal for social democracy and should be supplemented by amendments in the next legislative process in the Chamber of Deputies in terms of the discussion of experts, professional representatives, but also representatives of political parties, I note all political parties in the Chamber of Deputies. This is, in my opinion, the most practical solution, and I, from the point of view of the recommendation on how to proceed with the general national referendum at the House, would like this very proposal for social democracy to be the starting point. The reason is simple. It is a constitutional law, it is a complex material and the proposal presented by social democracy is based on the previous legislative process of the government's proposal of the previous government and therefore has the appropriate quality, including that it has been discussed by the Legislative Council of the Government, i.e. it is a text with which we can, from a professional constitutional point of view, count effectively and safely. I would also like to stress that, let us say, the amendments to this proposal will indeed be necessary so as to find the 120 voting majority here in the Chamber of Deputies, but not only in the Chamber of Deputies. Here I would like to point out, and it has not yet been said here, although perhaps it is not good news for the House, that the Senate across the political entities represented there at this time and in this composition is not willing to support even the most conservative current proposal for social democracy. That's the reality. And we will need both chambers to enforce the national general referendum. I say this not because of malice, but because we are very sensible about whether we really want to introduce a general referendum, not just talk about it for another term of office, and whether we want to introduce a referendum that will not crash because the Constitution does not count on it, the current constitutional representative democracy in our country. I would like to say that the changes that can be expected during the procedure in the Chamber of Deputies, so that we can achieve at least 120 heads of support for such a proposal by a general referendum in this term, really envisage changes, say softening in the initiation of a referendum, as has already been said here from the mouth of Professor Válková in the sense of the binding nature of the referendum, and other amendments, particularly inspired by some of the subjects of the pirate party, can be expected, as they have been said at the hearing of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution. As regards the initiation of the referendum, there I think that this is probably the most important report for citizens, that everything is led to the fact that the number of signatures for the initiation of the referendum should be between 300 and 500,000 signatures. I note, as chair of the Permanent Commission on the Constitution, that I was inspired here or convinced by the arguments of the pirate party, which argued with a number of signatures on various petitions of very fundamental social importance in recent years, or, say, tens of years that citizens were able to collect to initiate a solution through a petition of a problem. I think that this is a practical matter and it is a matter which, in my opinion, should also be inspiring for other colleagues and colleagues in the discussion of a general referendum. To conclude, then, my fellow Members, I would like to ask you, in the following vote, to be aware that we are voting on the Constitutional Act, to implement the Constitution of the Czech Republic, to proceed with the utmost responsibility and also to consider it, and maybe now it will come and maybe some colleagues from other political parties will give a little nudge and will not like it, but I think it must be heard, let us also consider whether, as the House at this time and on the first day of the appointment of ministers of the new government, we want to send a signal to the public that we are releasing proposals for the possibility of voting on the Czech Republic's withdrawal from the European Union, which allow the vote on the state budget or on taxes, and whether we really want to start communication with the public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u14	Thank you. At this point, I am not registering another application for a merged general debate. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on these points in the merged debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. I draw attention to the fact that the general debate has been merged, but we will vote on all points and on all proposals separately. First, I'll call... [[Gong.]] Will I ask if there is any interest in the final words of the appellant or rapporteur? There is interest, so please the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u15	Thank you for the floor. I very much welcome the speech by my colleague Valachová, who mentioned that the ČSSD is open to negotiations on reducing the parameters of their proposal in order to reduce the number of signatures needed to call for a referendum and to reduce the quorum for its binding nature. This is absolutely essential for us to support this at third reading. At the same time, we think that the ČSSD proposal is the best in terms of potential risks of referendum, and that is why we support the proposal from the ČSSD workshop as a medium for a comprehensive change in the second reading on the basis of an agreement in the Chamber of Deputies, and that is the proposal that we will support as a pirate club. We think that the whole discussion would be greatly simplified if there was only one carrier. That's why we support printing 111. Prints 35 and 117 are recommended to be rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u16	Thank you. There's interest in the plaintiff. Please. [[Members are coming into the hall.]] I got a little early for the colleagues who came. But I think it's a good thing. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you very much to support our proposal for a referendum law and send it to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u18	Thank you. I'm still the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u19	I still wanted to propose a procedure to vote on press 111 first, so that the will of this House is actually voted on to deal with the law at second reading, because if it fails, we are willing to move some of the proposal forward to second reading, of course. And we do not want our position to come to the conclusion that nothing will be accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u20	I think we should follow the order of the points that this is not a procedure that we should vote on somehow. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, I believe that we are at this point in the debate on the subject of referendums, a general referendum, a point that is the programme pillar of at least three political parties, the parliamentary clubs in this Chamber of Deputies, perhaps even more, which is, say, the Constitution promised but not yet respected, and I therefore believe that we should not change the procedure. As far as the KSČM club is concerned, we will support all three proposals to go to second reading. And as part of the second reading, we need to sit down as promoters over all the proposals, and without assuming which of them I like or dislike, because everyone has their advantages and weaknesses, so that we can agree, for example, in the form of a comprehensive proposal on some basic solution, which we will then move forward, so that all three parties that bear the proposals can sit down together at the same table and have a substantive discussion. Therefore, I say, the KSČM club will not support rejection or return, nor any other obstacle to any of the three proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-001-999.u22	Thank you. So we're going to follow the order of the points. I cannot consider any of the proposals to be a favorite. The House will decide by vote. We will therefore vote on paragraph 13 first.
