ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u1	170. Information about the position of the Czech Republic on the Global Pact on Safe, Controlled and Legal Migration and the Global Pact on Refugees I ask an authorized member of the government, the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, to take the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, let me inform you of two documents. One is the global pact for safe, managed and legal migration, the other is the global pact for refugees. These two documents are the response of the international community to the mass movements of migrants and refugees. These ever-increasing movements of people cannot be handled by each state individually, and it is clear that they require international cooperation. At the same time, however, it must be made clear that both of these documents have no legal obligation or enforcement. This document, which is discussed at UN level, is legally non-binding and is therefore not a legally enforceable international treaty. What these documents contain is, above all, a list of possible measures, principles and practices which, according to the decision of the participating States, can be applied in individual migration situations. I would also like to make it clear that migration compact defines migration as a fundamental human right. That's just not true. The document only talks about the human rights of migrants as a universal principle. Furthermore, I want to make it clear that the compact does not restrict the sovereignty of the states in the area of migration in deciding who and under what conditions it will allow individual states to enter its territory, nor does it transfer national competences to UN or EU level. Who would say otherwise, I dare say that he has not read the documents or misrepresents the meaning of these documents. The migration problems can only be dealt with effectively if States are able to cooperate and if they are able to talk to each other. The Czech Republic participated in the preparation of these two documents in formal consultations on the refugee pact led by the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees in Geneva, and in the negotiation of the UN migration pact in New York. There we have applied our positions through a common approach of 27 EU countries. The Czech Republic's positions were based on the approved migration policy strategy of the Czech Republic and took care that the provisions of both pacts reflected the already existing commitments in the area of migration and asylum and did not bring any new claims. The agreed text corresponds to what our country has advocated. We wanted this document to be defined as legally non-binding, to remain within the existing rules of international and Union law, not to be extended to new categories of refugees and new types of international protection, and to create a mechanism for monitoring the implementation of the pact without new institutions and other costs. The so-called... The refugee pact will be presented to the UN General Assembly, together with the annual report of the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees, and will be formally approved within the framework of the resolution adopted each year on the UNCR to which it is to be attached. The migration pact represents a historically legal framework for international cooperation and deals with all the essential aspects of migration. Its thematic scope, the fact that it is mainly based on general human rights documents, and in particular the diversity of national interests and priorities or their grouping, which have been promoted in the negotiation of the text, has led to a compromise outcome. In this case, the Czech Republic's priority was once again the legal non-bindingness, the sovereignty of the state to decide who and under what conditions it would allow on its territory, the condemnation and fight against illegal migration and the fight against smugglers, the differentiation of the treatment of legal and illegal migrants, the refusal to treat migrants under international refugee law, the confirmation of the commitment of the country of origin to take back its citizens and the follow-up mechanism without new institutions and costs. The agreed text contains all these elements, although some wordings are less unambiguous than the Czech Republic and other EU countries have tried to enforce. For us, it is particularly important that it focuses on solving problems that encourage migration, border management or human trafficking, and embraces migration in a comprehensive way from a number of other angles. This document sets out 23 objectives or tasks that should lead to safe, managed and legal migration. Some are essential from our point of view, some important and some redundant. However, they do not bring any new commitments to the Czech Republic again. The migration pact will be accepted at a conference in Morocco on 10 December 2018. And what is important, the participants, that is, the individual states, will have the opportunity to present their explanatory opinions, possibly. reservations, and also indicate what they consider relevant in relation to the compact. So I am convinced that I have now made it clear that the negotiation or creation of these two documents does not mean any new obligations for the Czech Republic, no new commitments. Those documents, I repeat, are a political declaration that is being discussed at UN level and is therefore legally non-binding. [[14.40 hours]] The Czech Government closely monitors the discussion of these documents in the individual Member States of the European Union and, of course, before the conference in Morocco, it will formulate the position of the Czech Republic, with which the Czech Republic will leave at the conference, and, if necessary or interested, we are prepared to inform either the relevant committees of the Chamber of Deputies or the Chamber of Deputies as a whole. I thank you for your attention and we can move on to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the plaintiff of this point, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, take the floor, who, if he agrees, will also become his rapporteur. Wouldn't you agree? Okay, thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, let me thank you for placing this point for today's discussion for the second time, and perhaps some call for us to study this document very well and listen to what the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Foreign Affairs will say, but what will be argued by a number of debaters as well. In the opening words of the Minister, I'm basically asking myself a simple question: If it's all so casual and useless, it's just so political, so why don't we just say no? We don't really care, it's basically nothing important. Politicians ride, discuss, but there is nothing binding about this for the Czech Republic, so why don't we start by saying that we don't like it? And basically, what the Prime Minister is saying and maybe he'll say in a few hours in Austria, so why don't we just say that we don't care about these two declarations or global pacts? But let's go to what I've prepared. As mentioned, on 10 and 11 December 2018, the United Nations Member States in Morocco are to accept a commitment in the area of migration, a global pact for safe, managed and regular migration, together with an almost undisputed global refugee pact. A similar document proposed by the European Commission, known as Dublin IV, has already fallen under the table in quotation marks, but much more serious UN and European Union documents, the global pacts, remain, in fact, unnoticed, although they outperform the proposed amendments to the Dublin treaties in many ways. These changes will result in regular and international organisations managed by the relocation of migrants and refugees to Europe. There are currently proposals of two global pacts, a global pact on refugees and a global pact on safe, controlled and regular migration, where there is no official Czech translation, because the UN does not issue its documents in the Czech language. The global pacts are no longer, from my point of view and from the point of view of communication with lawyers, a legally non-binding declaration, even if it is mentioned in their introduction, and in this I can agree with the Minister, but with international agreements, which are built above national laws under Article 10 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. This would certainly require the legal position of the legal authorities to tell us whether the declared non-binding nature of these global pacts is really so non-binding, or if we are making commitments under international law. Global pacts in some ways legitimize illegal migration. Signatory states will no longer be able to criminalise the activities of non-profit organizations in quotation marks, even those contrary to national or international law. Furthermore, they unite on the basis of human rights the status of refugees and migrants, which in practice will mean protecting the rights and illegal migrants, effectively preventing their expulsion back to their country of origin. The entire proposed policy is based on voluntaryity and the principle of non-return. Of course, there is also the redistribution of migrants and refugees, we know this as mandatory quotas, which are hidden under other terms in the global pact, under the term fair distribution of burdens and responsibilities. Global pacts do not slow or brake migration, they support it from my point of view and even call for it. The global refugee pact concerns refugees who leave their countries because of war or political persecution and their status is regulated by Geneva conventions, whereas the global pact for safe, managed and regular migration concerns people who migrate "for other reasons." They leave their countries because of poverty, the impact of climate change, job shortages, etc. The building blocks of global pacts are the international declaration, where the most important are the New York Declaration on migrants and refugees, adopted on 19 September 2016, by the then government of Bohuslav Sobotka, and the European Parliament resolution on progress in the UN Global Pact Initiative on Safe, Controlled and Legal Migration and Refugees, which was voted in the European Parliament on 16 April this year. The issue of ratification of the global pacts is also covered by the Marrakesh Declaration, which in its introduction refers to the New York Declaration. In the New York Declaration, in paragraph 63, the signatories committed themselves to the international negotiation process, leading to the adoption of a global pact. The New York Declaration is an integral part of the global pacts and clearly supports migration to Europe and the transfer of powers on migration policy to international and non-profit organisations. Hungary and the United States of America have resigned from the New York Declaration in the past, and both countries have withdrawn from preparing a global pact on migration, as this pact is incompatible with their migration policy. The European Parliament resolution on progress in the UN Global Pact Initiative on Safe, Controlled and Legal Migration and Refugees also refers to the New York Declaration and endorses all its points. Moreover, the European Parliament is asking de facto for the legalisation of the criminal activity of non-profit organisations, thereby guaranteeing them immunity, calling for the mass development of the reception of migrants and the implementation of quotas and their redistribution, or ignoring the negatives and problems associated with migration and recognising their mutual benefits, even recognising migration as an effective instrument against poverty. The UN and the European Union carry responsibility for themselves by immigrants, and for them in particular by their mother states, to the other developed world, where migrants are headed. The European Parliament is putting pressure on the adoption of global pacts and calls on the European Union to take a leading role in this process and to condemn other countries, in this case the US and Hungary, and in Hungary, you have seen the consequences in the last week that are leaving the negotiations, or they have succeeded in weakening the content of the final pact. Following the adoption of both global pacts, the Czech Republic will have to change its national and asylum policy, which will result in a loss of control in the area of migration asylum policy and will transfer these powers to international organisations under the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees. Implementing powers will be passed on to the international sector, religious organisations or the private sector. We could ask ourselves what will happen to the redistribution mechanism. The Global Pact on Refugees, which regulates access to refugee reception, also contains a redistribution mechanism, as I mentioned at the outset of my speech, which is also in Dublin IV, and this is known as mandatory quotas. In the global refugee pact, the redistribution mechanism is often referred to as - I repeat - fair burden sharing and accountability. [[14.50 hours]] In Dublin IV's proposal, the correction redistribution mechanism was, if you wish, calculated and controlled by the European Union Asylum Agency, which is directly accountable to the highest authority of the European Union, the European Commission. The European Commission should have had final control over the implementation and functioning of the mandatory quotas. When applying the correction mechanism, a reference key based on the population and size of the Member States' economies should have been used to lighten the mechanism to Member States under disproportionate pressure. If a Member State decided not to join the correction mechanism for 12 months, it was obliged to pay a fine of EUR 250 000 per year for one non-accepted asylum seeker. The next question could be, what's the deal with family bonding? Following the adoption of the global pact, Member States will have a new obligation to combine families not only for refugees but also for migrants, especially for unaccompanied children and at all stages of migration. How will return policy work? The Global Refugee Pact builds a return policy based solely on voluntary repatriations, including for the countries of origin of refugees. Host countries have, after the adoption of global pacts, financially, technically and otherwise to support countries of origin, thus solving the causes of settlement and simplifying the return of refugees back to their countries. By adopting a global pact on migration, Member States will be prevented by the so-called collective expulsion. Each migrant will have to be assessed individually and expulsion will only be possible if it complies with international human rights law. If migrants leaving their countries to find new economic opportunities, people leaving their homes for food insecurity, poverty, human rights violations, adverse impacts of the climate, and the impact of adverse disasters, as listed in the New York Declaration, will not be able to expel them back to their countries of origin because they would violate human rights. What role do nonprofit organizations play in these pacts? We can say that global pacts are tailor-made for nonprofits. Non-profit organisations will have free hands not only for preparation and planning, but also for the implementation of programmes for refugees and migrants and the power to redistribute funds after the adoption of the Global Pact on Refugees. Non-profit organisations will actively assist migrants and refugees in implementing migration as human rights, with total impunity, in cases where they violate other national or international rights, because global pacts essentially provide them with immunity. This legalizes and starts carrying out illegal smuggling now, which will pass from criminal smugglers to nonprofit organizations. This step will not reduce migration, but it will support it even more, because migrants will know that non-profit organizations will safely transfer them to Europe, from where they will not be easily expelled and where they will take very good care of them. It is also interesting how the European Commission or how these pacts talk about the possibility of informing citizens of the European Union about these activities. With the adoption of global pacts, signatory states also accept censorship on information relating to migrants and migration. The Global Pact on Migration obliges signatory states to inform only about the positives of migration, the negatives are perceived as manifestations of racism and xenophobia. Financial and material resources will be stopped for the media to criticise migration. What to say in conclusion. Global pacts are not designed to dampen or prevent illegal migration. On the contrary, migration, as well as mass, promote and legalise illegal migration by moving funds and management mechanisms from illegal smuggling groups, if you want people smugglers, to Member States, legal international institutions, non-profit organisations and the private sector. If the global pacts in December in Morocco are adopted by signatory states, they will also commit these transnational agreements to ratify at national levels, thus becoming a serious part of the national legal order. If the Czech Republic is to maintain its own decision-making power on migration and asylum, the global pacts should not be accepted and, following the model of the great brother behind the puddle, the United States of America, and Hungary should withdraw from the New York Declaration on migrants and refugees. Ladies and gentlemen, let me thank you for listening to me. At the same time, let me thank the people who sent me the documents for this performance. I am ready for discussion, at the same time I ask that the debate be substantive and, if possible, we have reached a conclusion today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u5	Thank you, too. Please take a seat at the rapporteur's table, where you will follow the debate and collect proposals. At this point, I have some apologies that came first, and that is Mrs Adamová's apology, between 14.30 and 19.00 apologies for work reasons. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek apologizes from 14.30 to 15.30 and then from 16.30 to the end of the negotiations. Vice-President Hanzel apologizes from 14.30 to 15.30 for business reasons. Are you interrupting? Yes, well, the Vice-President is canceling this note. I have two factual points here, Vice-President Stanjura and Mr Hrnčíř, and I assume this is a mistake from the previous time, so I will delete it. At this point, I am opening up a debate in which Vice-President Okamura is the first person to sign up with priority, then President Fiala, then Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that, following the SPD and the KSČM initiative, the UN Global Pact on Safe, Controlled and Regular Migration and the Global Pact on Refugees has been included in the agenda for the discussion of an opinion on the UN Global Pact on Safe, Controlled and Regular Migration. I deliberately say regular, because the translation of the English word certainly makes it more important to him regularly. Our SPD movement fundamentally disagrees with these documents, as these documents pose a danger to the Czech Republic and to Europe. We want the Czech Republic to withdraw from these negotiations and, of course, not sign these documents, just as the US and Hungary have already done, and Poland will probably not join this document. Unfortunately, the attitude of Babišův's government towards these documents is positive, as Jan Hamáček, the Minister of Interior and Foreign Affairs, has confirmed this in his opening speech. Thus, the government continues to want to be lukewarm about migration. These UN documents try to define migration as a fundamental human right and also define the right to cross borders. According to this UN document, migration is an irreplaceable and good process, which is the words from this document that should be supported. It is, however, based on the twisted interpretation of Art. 13 point 2 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, according to which everyone - I quote - has "the right to leave any country and his own, and to return to his own country." Yes, the right to leave your country belongs to the freedom of each of us, but there is no right to settle anywhere in the world regardless of those to whom that country belongs. The philosophy of the United Nations and apparently also of the European Parliament and of the other parties here in the Chamber of Deputies is to legalize global squatting. And not only legalize, they plan to support it financially and legally. And we already know the first bold plans. The global compact calls for the provision of capacity for resettlement to 10% of the total number of refugees in the world per year. To know what number we are talking about, the UN estimated last year that 258 million people are currently living in the world outside their country of origin. However, this number will be multiplied as soon as Europe applies to worry about refugees. We all know who started Mrs. Merkel's stupid statement. [[15.00 hours]] This UN Global Compact Project on Migration contains e.g. provisions according to which training should be organised for migrants both before and after departure in order to provide them with favourable conditions. States also undertake to allow migrants to send money home, which is a real incentive for economic migrants. Furthermore, there is an obligation on the State to provide non-governmental non-profit organisations with the possibility of assisting migrants to file complaints against State authorities' asylum decisions and residence permits in the country. All of this is totally unacceptable for our SPD movement and for security in the Czech Republic and we reject these conclusions. The minister said it wasn't binding. So I don't understand why we are in such negotiations. And we repeat once again that we need to withdraw following the example of Hungary, because it is not possible for us to discuss such sentences at all, because this is absolutely unacceptable, as I said, for the Czech Republic at all, and I am convinced for most of our citizens as well. The Freedom and Direct Democracy Movement, the SPD, has long-term and programmed rejection of immigration. Immigration projects at any level directly threaten the interests of our nation and the sovereignty of our state. This country is the heritage of our nation and is not an EU or UN administrative unit. There is no right over the sovereignty of this country to move in here and use the values our ancestors have created. The matter needs to be seen in context. The first part of this context is the efforts of the EU, the UN and some Czech politicians and activists to turn immigration into a legal law that stands above the sovereignty of the countries and interests of the nations. The second part of the problem is the EU's efforts to deprive Member States of the right to freely decide on their own immigration policy. The situation today is quite clear. Supporting the EU is to promote migration. Do not withdraw from the global pact like Hungary means a major threat to our interests and to our resignation in defence of our interests. I will remind you that the UN documents under discussion are the result of the New York Declaration on migrants and refugees. By adopting the New York Declaration, the States have committed themselves to, among other things. organise an international conference to conclude a global pact on - I quote - safe, managed and legal migration in 2018 and also to reach an agreement on - I quote - fairer sharing of responsibility for refugees by 2018. In other words, when EU Member States have been thrown out of the door by the Brussels migration quotas for the time being, they are trying to direct them through the UN window. The signing of both documents, the Global Pact on Safe, Management and Regular Migration and the Global Pact on Refugees should take place, according to the UN Secretariat, at the UN Special Conference, which is convened in mid-December 2018 in Marrakech. In the event of their negotiation and ratification by the Czech Parliament and signature by the President of the Republic, according to Art. 10 The Constitutions were superior to national laws, which would mean that we would have to remake Czech laws according to them. For example, more than half of the provisions regulating foreign nationals' entry into our territory and residence in the Czech Republic would have to be abolished. Until recently, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated, and the Minister said that at this stage the documents were not binding. Then I do not understand what will be signed at the UN Special Conference, which is convened in mid-December 2018 in Marrakech, or why it will actually be signed there, or if there is any need to sign anything at all. You, Minister behind me, are telling me that this is a political declaration that needs to be signed. We say there's no need to sign. Why? Why? Why! I'm saying here, it contains the sentences that I quote here. There's these thesis. I know you, as a representative of social democracy, have the need to sign such sentences and such documents. We say no for the SPD. And here is the obvious difference between the SPD and this Babišův coalition government of the ANO movement and the CSSD. That's the difference, it's obvious, and I think the citizens all see it. Let us take a closer look at what the New York Declaration is based on. In September 2016, 193 UN General Assembly Member States unanimously adopted a text called the New York Declaration on migrants and refugees. It is intended to improve international solutions to the refugee problem, among others. issues of reception of refugees in individual countries, schooling of their children, legal employment etc. American President Donald Trump ordered 1. 12. 2017 by special directive to U.S. diplomatic representatives at the UN to conclude negotiations on both treaties. The U.S. delegation to the United Nations handed over a message on the termination of US participation in a global migration compact project, as both documents are collectively referred to, 3. 12. 2017. The United States has resigned and Hungary has also resigned. And I will now get to Hungary and to its progress, and to those reasons. Hungarian diplomats participated in the meetings of the working groups that prepared proposals for both contracts until the end. Final draft texts, drafts of both contracts were submitted by the UN Commission on International Law to assess the governments of the Member States 13. 7. 2018. In the following week, i.e. It is two or less than three months ago, the Hungarian Government imposed on all state authorities in Hungary an examination of the compatibility of the proposed contracts with national law. And Hungary based on this review, and they are our colleagues from V4, members of the EU, 24. 7. 2018 has announced its withdrawal from negotiations on a global pact for safe, managed and legal migration and on a global pact for refugees. Because, unlike the government of the ANO and the ČSSD movement, Hungary has justified this further in the coalition with the KSČM, and unlike Minister Hamáček, Hungary considers these documents to be a bad process after a detailed examination that poses a danger to Europe and Hungary, and that is a quote from the Hungarian Foreign Minister Szijjártó. The Hungarian Minister further explained that, as a result, the Hungarian Government's conclusion is different from that of the UN, and I quote it. The UN believes that migration should be encouraged, but, according to Hungary's position, it must be stopped, said the Hungarian Minister. And here I have a question for Minister Hamáček about how he will explain to us the contradiction of Hungary, where they discussed it, even the Hungarian minister went to those meetings, and this was publicly presented abroad as well, after discussion in the Hungarian Parliament's institutions, so that Members also looked at it there, it was discussed in the committees. The procedure of the Czech Government, and I think it must really bother all the opposition parties in the Chamber of Deputies - you haven't discussed it at all here in the House, we're only discussing it now that we've had Marrakesh, and now that we don't force you to get it on the House's agenda, you're basically going there this month without any discussion in the House and without any resolution. There's a fundamental difference here that you're hiding and you don't want to discuss it publicly. And maybe you'll say I'm not hiding, but I'm asking why Hungary is going there with these Parliament opinions, where they are openly discussing it. Hungary, in particular, after a detailed examination, came to these conclusions. Of course, we believe in Hungary that they did not hide, discuss and have conclusions. You're hiding, and if we hadn't proposed, of course, we wouldn't even be able to get to this discussion. After all, we know, and I will get to that, how the government approaches foreign policy. So I'd sum it up. The SPD movement fully identifies with Hungary's position. And let me propose a resolution from the SPD pen on which the Chamber of Deputies will vote. The resolution is: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic considers the continuation of the Czech Republic in the UN Global Pact on Safe, Management and Legal Migration as a condition contrary to the fundamental interests of the Czech Republic and the Czech nation. In view of this, we demand the withdrawal of the Czech Republic from the negotiations on this global pact following the model of Hungary and the USA. We ask the Government of the Czech Republic to take appropriate steps in relation to this pact in accordance with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. And I will tell you, Minister, why this resolution is needed. Because you guys last week, last week, proved that government foreign policy is, like, the biggest galimaty I've had in 20 years. Who has ever experienced that MEPs, government MEPs of the ANO movement, of course even for the CSSD, will simply sink Hungary last week and vote for Hungary's sanctions? At the same time, Prime Minister Babiš here tells us that he's distancing himself from them. Their boss is distancing. [[15.10 hours]] The President of the House of Vondráček apologized from the vote here publicly in the House. This means that there is actually no agreement at all on any consensual position to be a single foreign policy. And even basically your superior Prime Minister Babiš - but you are also a foreign minister - so you are praising the vote because your MEP Poche voted in favour of sanctions. Well, Mr Poc didn't have the courage to oppose, so he got held up. That means what is Czech foreign policy? Everyone says different things. But if only it were something else in nuances. It's 180 degrees something else. It's just one big one, I'll be decent, messy. But this really does not deserve the Czech Republic. Such an absolutely scandalously irresponsible foreign policy that your government is performing. I know your government is a blind man. That's what we see here every week. That you have completely opposite programs in many things, completely different interests. You just want to vote for each other differently. But at least please don't bother the citizens with these contradictions of yours so that foreign policy can be such a mess. That is, for this reason, what I am saying here is necessary in the House's resolution. If ours doesn't pass, one we might not agree with. But we should mostly approach the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Because how can you, dear colleagues in the coalition and in opposition, trust a government like this where the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister, and even their MEPs, each do something completely different and say something else? That's awful, isn't it? So that's why I think - and we've already talked about it here with our colleague Ondráček - that we could take a break after the discussion, where we'd like to call together colleagues from other political parties. If we were like Marrakesh in June, that was the point that the SPD initiated then, or it was in June, if we could find a consensus on any resolution that could be voted out here in majority terms. [[unintelligible]] 'Cause otherwise, we're just gonna leave it at the mercy of the Minister Hamáček who has a political opinion, but different from the Prime Minister and different from us. I mean, really, for someone to talk about such serious things in the United Nations, that's really completely unacceptable. And finally, because I've just read in the media that the content of the meeting is supposed to be that somebody here wants to raise the issue of Syrian orphans. So I'm just going to briefly read in a few sentences the SPD's position on the proposal to accept the 50 Syrian orphans, who I suspect are about 17 or 19 years old, or, as I have heard in a roundabout way. But I don't know what the truth is. The SPD's position on this issue is as follows: In our country, we have enough orphans and dependent children in kangaroos, and they need our help in the first place, not to propagandize alien orphans and to hold public collections for the lives of our orphans. The SPD movement considers the call by MEP Michaela Šojdrová from KDU-ČSL to accept fifty Syrian orphans to the Czech Republic as a clear campaign to make himself and KDU-ČSL visible before the forthcoming municipal and senate elections and to hold on to the next elections to the European Parliament. Members and senators elected as KDU-ČSL, ČSSD, TOP 09, STAN and the Green Party express their support for their efforts. That means mostly the so-called welcome party. This means those who long-term promote in various forms, softer or harder, the admission of migrants to the Czech Republic. However, the situation is that the adoption of several dozen orphans from Syria will, of course, not resolve the situation in this country. Syria is currently able to help itself with these orphans, helping these orphans. The legal government of Syria, as we know, controls most of the territory of the state and has all the means to take care of these children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u7	Thank you. Please refer the motion for a resolution to the rapporteur and the President. I'm not sure about the proposal for a break, but I'm assuming it'll be specified. I've got some tickets here. We are sorry by Mrs Valachová and Mr Foldyna for today's meeting from 14.45 to 16.30 for working reasons and Mr Karel Tureček apologizes between 16.00 and 19.00 for working reasons. I now have here with Mr Hrnčíř's point of fact. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond briefly to the gentle words of Minister Hamáček. Unfortunately, the Global Pact on Safe, Controlled and Regular Migration, as well as the Global Pact on Refugees, is not designed to dampen or prevent illegal migration, but to promote mass migration and legalise illegal migration. It is by moving the means and mechanisms of management from illegal smuggling groups to Member States, legal international institutions, non-profit organisations and, of course, the private sector. If the global pacts in December in Morocco are adopted by signatory states, they will also commit these transnational agreements to ratify at national levels, thus becoming a binding part of national law. If the Czech Republic, as a sovereign state, is to maintain its own decision-making powers on migration and asylum, it should act as the Hungarian political representation and political representation of the United States of America and the global pacts in no way accept and also withdraw from the New York Declaration on migrants and refugees, which forms an integral part of the global compact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u9	Thank you, honourable Member. And now we will return to the general debate. So with priority rights as the first President of Radim Fiala, Minister Jan Hamáček will be prepared, and I also have Mr Miroslav Kalousek's written application and so on and so on. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD has long rejected migration. We don't do it out of hate or other low motives. Our country is simply not a free and new territory that seeks new citizens and needs to build a new culture and values. We are a country with a thousand-year tradition of both national and cultural. We have no historical commitments to accept people from former colonies or other dependent territories. We sincerely wish every country and every nation all good things. And every nation shall live according to its own, and according to its work. We will even clearly defend these rights of the nations. But there is no reasonable reason to involve the Czech Republic in immigration projects. Immigration projects at any level directly threaten the interests of our nation and, above all, the sovereignty of our state. The Czech Republic is the heritage of our nation and is not an administrative unit of the European Union, the UN or the new world order. There is no right over the sovereignty of this country to move in here and use the values our ancestors have created. Only arrogant profit-seeking globalists and powerful neomarxists think they can play their power games with nations. Under the cover of humanity, it is about power, profits, and fundamental attacks on freedom. They want to make the world a set of labor and consumers. They want to turn immigration into a legal law that stands above the sovereignty of the countries and the interests of the nations. Of course, similar intentions are supported by the European Union, which wants to deprive Member States of the right to freely decide on their own immigration policy. Supporting the European Union means promoting migration. Do not get off like Hungary and the United States of America out of the global pact for migration means a major threat to our interests and to our resignation to defend our interests. I also have the same resolution that SPD President Tomio Okamura has proposed here, so I will not read it and read it in a detailed debate. But instead, allow me to respond to the words of the Foreign Minister Hamáček, who said that the matter was not binding. The UN's Global Pact on Migration is not binding. Yes, it's not binding, he's right. However, if we do not say that we will not respect him, unless we say that we do not agree with him as the Czech Republic, everyone will appeal to him in the future and say a lot of things in the salami method: this is a political declaration - as we have heard from the Minister - which you have approved, which you have agreed to, then follow it. This means that the Czech Republic has to say as strongly as Hungary and the United States do, that it will not respect it and that it is leaving. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u11	Thank you. Now with priority rights the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Interior Jan Hamáček. President Miroslav Kalousek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u12	I will try very briefly to respond first to the speech of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Okamura, who criticised Czech foreign policy. Mr Vice-President, through yours, we really need to clarify the concepts. The European Parliament is a directly elected legislative body that derives its mandate from voters in the Czech Republic. And it is not within the competence of either the Prime Minister or the Minister of Foreign Affairs to promote foreign policy of the Czech Republic through directly elected MEPs. That's just not possible. First of all. Secondly, I was interested in your review that took place in Hungary. You said, or so I understood, that you believe in the Hungarian government more than ours. I would also like to ask if you believe in all this Hungarian government, including the position of Hungarian Minister for National Policy Mr Potápi, who says that Benešův's decrees are an evil thing and must be abolished. I do not think it is in the interests of the Czech Republic. It needs to be pointed out. In general, we're going to talk about how it's going to start here. If I could gradually refute all these claims, maybe it's a shame we don't listen to each other. I have made it clear from the beginning that the various provisions of the global compacts have been laid down. By the way, two things come together here. From the mouths of the previous speakers, Hungary and the United States felt strongly opposed to both compacts. Of course, that's not true. The so-called refugee compact is a document that has not aroused any emotions during negotiations, neither Hungary nor the United States have withdrawn from it. If we vote here to withdraw from the refugee compact, we will be the first state in the world to do so. And I see no reason at all for that. I have tried to explain here that documents are not binding, that these documents are really merely a political declaration that names this issue. Of course, organisations such as the UN and a number of other international organisations simply accept the political declaration because it is a description of the situation and a statement of opinion. However, after I came out here and made it clear that the materials are non-binding, that there are no obligations for the Czech Republic, there are no restrictions that we will not be newly bound, so here I will learn from those who spoke after me that this is actually the new Dublin IV. This thing has nothing to do with Dublin IV. I do not understand why we should mention Dublin IV in this context. I'll know we're gonna have to ratify this in accordance with Article 10a. That's nonsense. If we're clearly saying it's a noncommittal document, I don't see any reason to ratify it here. And if we do not ratify it, it cannot be binding on the Czech Republic. That's just a purposeful interpretation that has nothing to do with reality. And I could go on like this, but for the record, I'm gonna end it. If it wasn't so serious, it seems to me to some extent smiling, because critics of these two documents are trying to suggest that all the countries of the world conspired against the United States, Hungary and perhaps the Czech Republic and all the countries of the world have set us up with some sort of hut that obliges us here to the things described by our colleague Ondráček or colleague Okamura. It's just not true. Unfortunately, today's discussion serves only to scare the public again and raise concerns about something that is not appropriate. I have clearly named problems here in my opening words. I clearly said that there are no obligations for the Czech Republic from these documents. These documents are legally non-binding, and I therefore do not see why we should adopt the resolution proposed by Vice-President Okamura. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u13	Thank you. I'll read the apologies here. Mr Vít Rakušan apologises between 17 and 20 o'clock for the hearing, from 14.30 to the end of the date of the hearing due to the visit of the doctor, Mr Michal Chovanec, the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec from the afternoon part of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for working reasons and last from 14.00 to 16.00 Mr Jakub Janda. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the concepts in the two pacts for the TOP 09 are very important in terms of volunteering, responsibility and solidarity - all these three. Since the beginning of the migration crisis and the search for solutions against compulsory quotas, the TOP 09 has been a common European solution since the beginning, and has also stressed the need for solidarity cooperation and the failure to take on the role of a stowaway. So, when on 8 July 2015, the previous government, where today's prime minister was the first Prime Minister, adopted a resolution that the Czech Republic would voluntarily choose and voluntarily take care of 1,100 refugees from Italy and Greece, who were there and both of the two partner countries within the European Union were of course extremely burdened because it was a huge contingent, we accepted this government decision with understanding. A rich country, completely uninhibited by the migration crisis, turns to its partners and says: We will volunteer to help you with 1,100 people, because that is the capacity we can cope with. We'll choose these people, we'll take them from you, and we'll take care of them. This is valid, please nicely, to this day the Government's resolution of 8 July 2015. Accepted unanimously. Today's Prime Minister was the first Vice-President of the Government to vote in favour of this resolution. For TOP 09 I say it was reasonable, it was not within the framework of mandatory quotas, it was a voluntary decision. There was everything, there was volunteering, there was responsibility, there was solidarity, and above all there was the possibility... Mr President, whenever I start talking, Mr Faltýnek will start speaking in the first place. The possibility is also that Mr Faltýnek talks all the time, but I ask you very much through Mr President, my colleague, it is infinitely annoying, in fact I cannot demonstrate my performance as a Member. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u15	I, of course, please, have the right, according to the Rules of Procedure, to have the opportunity and opportunity to express itself in peace. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u16	Thank you for understanding. Of course, there was no list of 1,100 refugees coming to us. The selection was to be made by the Czech Government with an emphasis on, of course, security and ability to do this. It didn't happen. The mood not only in the government, but also in society began to shift to that absolutely outrageous and in my opinion senseless and false statement by the Prime Minister that he would not allow one single fugitive into the Czech Republic. We're bound by Geneva conventions. After all, refugees are not only from the Middle East and from North Africa; refugees are from other countries. And if a fugitive enters our territory, we just have to run the asylum procedure with him. What happens is different, but we are not entitled to say: no asylum proceedings will be conducted with anyone and no refugee will enter our territory. Since we have no longer applied the voluntary decision of the Czech Government of 2015, and I do not want to now submit to the criticism that we will ourselves choose some refugees from Italy and Greece, we will take care of them to help our partners Italy and Greece, their governments, their authorities and their citizens within the necessary solidarity that we should feel, there is another subject, much more modest, but from a symbolic point of view equally essential. [[15.30 hours]] There are about 3,500 children in Greek refugee camps. Now, of course, we can tell each other who the baby is. I note that, for example, when the United Kingdom passed the law that these children, so-called escorted or, in short, Syrian orphans, 350 of these children would provide care and asylum in their territory, it defined this by a parameter of 17 years. Three hundred and fifty unaccompanied children under the age of 17, Great Britain passed this law and does so. I wouldn't dare say anything like that to the Czech government. Let him determine the parameters as he sees fit. Fifteen years, twelve years, it's really up to her. There are 3,500 of them, living in really extremely unhappy conditions, and there are no parents there. That's why they're called orphans in short, even though they don't often know whether or not they are orphans. That's what wartimes do. She limps every historical parallel, but so-called. Wintonův's children, when they left for safety in the UK in 1939, didn't know if they were orphans until the end of the war. Even some of them have committed such emotional fraud and virtual reality - these are not my words, as Minister Took said - that there were no orphans for four years because their parents gassed for example in 1944. So those kids in those Greek refugee camps are in a similar situation. They don't have parents there, and they don't know if the parents are alive, whether anyone will ever be able to take care of them in any way. Now, in some way, civilised countries are trying to participate within, I repeat, volunteering, responsibility and solidarity. So, for example, Great Britain has passed the 350 children's law, if you will, until 17 years old. Israel, which is in a state of war with Syria and has all the historical, civilizational and cultural reasons to look at Syria not in a friendly way, so if it is children, it looks at it completely differently and hundreds of these children have decided to grant citizenship. And here, in my opinion, we have an absolutely exceptional opportunity to do this symbolic gesture of responsibility and solidarity as part of volunteering. To help our partner within the European Union, which is Greece, where there are thousands of these children in those refugee camps. To tell ourselves, the Czech public and the international public that we are not heartless and that we are not without conscience and we want to keep the same regime that the government established in 2015. We want to design it exactly the same way. There's no list of 50 children or 60 children. There are 3,500 unaccompanied children in Greek refugee camps. And so let the government of the Czech Republic, within the framework of the international humanitarian gesture and assistance, determine the parameters and, of its choice, choose the individual children to whom it will provide shelter and provide the necessary care in the Czech Republic for the funds of Czech taxpayers. It is something that we will propose in the context of a detailed debate. We will ask you to support the House of Deputies to make this appeal to the Government of the Czech Republic. It's entirely up to the government how the mechanisms will do this. Of course, if she needs advice, we can, too, in Britain. But the government is certainly competent enough to make its own decision, if it decides to do so, to decide for itself what the selection parameters will be and what specific assistance and care will look like in the territory of the Czech Republic. We consider it necessary. We consider this also necessary for the atmosphere in the Czech Republic and, after all, for our own conscience, because I say again, we are not just talking about volunteering, but we are also talking about responsibility and solidarity, and in these terms we will appeal to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u17	That was Mr Kalousek, and now I have three factual points. So Mr Pavel Plzák will prepare himself and I will read one apology in the meantime. The Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala, apologizes from 16.30 pm to the end of the day for reasons of work. So for the de facto Member Pavel Plzák and Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have applied for that factual remark after the speech of the Vice-President of the Government, who is no longer here, I do not see him, who said that the pact is completely noncommittal, does not oblige us, etc. But it is known that, for example, the European Court of Justice in certain cases where it is to interpret certain things in EU legislation, e.g. certain regulations, etc., take account of such declarations, their preambles, etc., which we have seen several times in the past. Then I would like to say that this declaration, so why does a declaration arise when it is actually non-binding? Why would we sign it? The declaration sets some goals. These goals are set in order to reach them in some way. The main goal is that we want to promote legal - but beware that English regular is more often translated as a permanent and regular migration to the rest of the world. I understand the states were signing it. Many states can deal with their population explosions, etc., that's for sure. And what is crucial about this, and I consider it the most problematic, is that it establishes the right to migration as a fundamental human right. It equals the right to health, the right to life, etc. No one, of course... We would all protest if someone were in danger of life and health. But take note that if you put obstacles to migration, you are actually endangering the fundamental human right of that person. And it can also apply to the fact that you build fences, you give visas etc. Although we are told that this policy will be in the exclusive competence of individual states. So I wouldn't consider it completely casual and safe. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u19	Another with a point of fact, I have two applications here for the moment, so Mr Ondráček and Mr Holík will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I also wanted to respond to the currently absent Minister of the Interior and Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Hamáček, who said that we are not listening to each other. Yes, I fully agree with him. We don't listen to each other here. If the Minister were present, I'd read him what I read here again, what I said. Hungary and the United States of America have resigned from the New York Declaration in the past. And now the important thing: and both states have withdrawn from preparing a global pact on migration, because it is incompatible with their migration policy. Sir right now, absent minister, tell me where you hear the word "refugee" or the second pact about refugees. We just don't listen here. You're saying something that you've made a mistake, and we're telling you something that's the facts that we're giving you here. Yes, we don't listen to each other. I wasn't talking about refugees. I was talking about migrants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u21	Thank you, and with another factual remark, Mr Holík, and I have one more, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. So please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond a little here to my predecessor, Mr Kalousek. So, Mr Kalousek, through Mr President, I see a global pact on migration when I look at the board. I don't hear about runaways anywhere. I'll agree with you. Yes, we have a free choice and I can say that almost 10 percent of foreigners currently live in the Czech Republic. We have made a free choice and we have here the most numerous group from Ukraine, Slovakia and Vietnam. So, like you said, it's voluntary, and we chose these states that are, let's say, religiously closer to us. And you were talking about responsibility. Yes, we are responsible to the citizens of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u23	Well, thank you. And now the last one, with Mr Kalousek's factual remark, and then we will return to the general debate if I do not have any more applications. Please, Mr. Ambassador. As a matter of fact, we are in a general debate, but we are going back to standard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u24	Thank you for the floor. I merely point out that Mr Holík has now mixed together economic migrants, which are indeed hundreds of thousands in our territory, and refugees who are in refugee camps, and either we show them or we do not show solidarity. These are two different categories, which, of course, populist parties love to mix together to cloud what's really going on here. On the board we have a global pact on migration and we are talking about both pacts, a pact on migration and a pact on refugees. And if, within the fiscal period, we have also been able to talk about voting on Hungary, I think that this thematic freedom in this case is respected both by what I say in general and by what we put forward in a detailed debate. I would like to politely disagree with Mr Plzák, who says that in the pacts the right to migration is formulated as a fundamental human right. It's not. Fundamental human rights are defined in the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, they are part of the constitution of individual democratic countries. If there really was such a thing as not being there, it would, of course, require the amendment of the constitution of almost all signatories who have the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms as part of their constitution. There's no such thing. In these pacts, the right to migration is not defined as a fundamental human right in those terms in which we understand the concept of fundamental human right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u25	Well, thank you. And now, with priority rights, Vice-President of the ODS member club, Jan Skopeček, since the President of the MP club is not here. Please. And Mr Kopřiva will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'll take a few notes. I will talk about what this point is called, namely the global pact on migration. I think it is a good thing that we are discussing him here today, because next week the General Assembly will begin where the text will be discussed, and, after all, it can still take place there, or over the next months, its change before the final vote in December, and it is therefore good to hear from the government what mandate, with what ambitions it is going to the General Assembly, and should also hear what the position of the Chamber of Deputies is. I agree that the pact on global migration is a non-binding document, but it must be said that the direction that the global pact on migration is looming is quite clear. Everything suggests that the global pact is designed to legalize a controlled migration. It is supposed to mean a shift from the existing protection of refugees arising from international law, real refugees fleeing from danger, and it is intended to protect also economic migrants or those who do not flee from the fatal immediate danger. This is a very clear shift, which the global pact contains compared to existing, albeit enforceable documents. There's a debate going on here if migration is defined as a fundamental human right in this pact. The Minister assured us that we didn't. However, it should be recalled that, for example, the Hungarian Foreign Minister explained precisely why Hungary withdrew from this global pact. So I feel like we don't have to argue here today about whether it's contained as a fundamental human right. We have the Parliamentary Institute here, let it go into about 40 or 50 pages, if I remember correctly, and it will submerge the English text and give the Chamber a clear position as to whether the wording contained in the global pact implies that migration should become a fundamental human right. I personally think that it is not and cannot be a fundamental human right to migrate, and I even think that it should not be a law lower than a fundamental human right. I think migration is a deviation from normal, it's an anomaly, not a standard. It is normal, in my opinion, to live in my own country and to participate in its development, or to migrate only where I am invited and where I am able to assimilate, not travel to completely different civilization circuits with completely different values and cultural patterns. International organisations alone estimate the number of migrants to be 250 million. If the United States has withdrawn from this pact and thereby show how it is opposed to mass migration, it is clear that the vast majority of these migrants, if they were allowed to migrate, would be heading to Europe, our continent. In my opinion, however, we should not try to save the world by destroying the world of our own, which our ancestors have given us in the present form. I would also like to comment on the legal non-bindingness, voluntaryity, virtually. he went back to her. I think we all know the salami method in this area and we can all imagine very vividly when they form, for example. European Union standards on migration, that they can rely on texts, documents and pacts of international institutions that are not binding. It wouldn't be the first or last case. And while the global pact is non-binding, it may appear in a European directive, a standard or a proposal to tackle migration, and we can once again get into a situation where we fight for what we fought for in the case of Dublin IV, so that we do not have mandatory quotas for migration. I simply reject the salami method, especially in the area of migration, in such an important area. Even if the pact was voluntary and it was just a political act, we must make it clear that the opening up of mass migration was a tragic mistake for Europe - and I call it the suicide of our continent. In my view, the main question in this debate should be whether European and world political elites are trying to stop mass migration, whether they consider the opening up of the mass migration that occurred a few years ago to be a fatal mistake that the European Union has made as a fatal mistake, from which to learn and to stop migration immediately. Do you feel that this is what European and world political elites are aware of or think they are? I'm sure you don't. The main ambition of the political elites of both the world and those of Europe is not to stop migration, but to legalize existing illegal migration. Any one of you who has ever participated in a committee of the European Parliament and heard a debate on the topic of migration will confirm this to me. Therefore, I reject all similar non-binding declarations that appear voluntary or non-binding, because they have slow steps towards the fact that migration, which is now considered illegal, will be considered legal in the future and will be difficult to combat. This fact is well known to the United States and Hungary, which have come to terms with the global pact. I'd like to ask a rhetorical question. If it is such a meaningless, non-binding document that has no impact on our countries, why is the greatest power, and I don't want to say the cradle of democracy, but a country with very embedded, rooted democratic principles and values, is ambition to live up to the global pact? I think the answer is clear: because it knows that this is another step towards legalising the existing migration, which, for example, the United States is trying to build with much more emphasis than the European region, than the European Union. [[15.50 hours]] Let's ask ourselves a few questions. Is the global pact we are discussing in a week at the General Assembly a means to halt mass migration? The answer is no. Migration is supported, it is praised, and there is only an effort to find ways to make illegal migration legal. The pact is a response and a condemnation, a refusal to open up to mass migration before, and thus to suicide in our European civilization? Neither do I. It is not a condemnation and rejection of the prior opening of mass migration. It's just a search for tools to make the mass migration more bearable and how to take the tools from its opponents, how to fight it, and how to reject it. Will it protect us the moment we become signatories to this pact? Will this pact protect us from the consequences of the mass migration and migration policies of some European countries, be it Germany, Greece, Italy? Will it protect us from the consequences of their migration policy, which, in my opinion, has never been in the interests of the Czech Republic or Europe? No. This pact will not protect any of us from similar mistakes made by Germany. Then I ask the Foreign Minister why we should want to be a signatory and a part of this agreement. As I mentioned earlier, she was here, not to say a gunfight, but a discussion about whether or not this pact establishes migration as a fundamental human right. I would like to read the resolution that "The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the government withdraw from the global pact on migration if it contained that migration should become a right and that the current illegal migration will be legitimately legitimised'. This is our motion for a resolution on this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u27	Thank you. I will now read two apologies and in the meantime prepare myself with the factual remark of Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologizes from 17:00 to the end of the day for working reasons, and Mr Přemysl Mališ apologises from 18:00 for working reasons. So, Madame, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond through the President to my colleague, Jan Skopeček, because I do not see the situation as described. If this were so true that Europe had failed to learn, or was not taking action gradually, the situation would not have changed. She's changed. The level of migration to the European Union is now at 2012. There has really been a significant reduction in people coming to Europe, and it is not itself. It is a targeted common European policy. It is a targeted common European policy both on Africa's territory by concrete action and by Europe's start to guard external borders, albeit not ideally, but there has been a significant improvement in this situation. A common coastal and border guard is being built. The return directive is open so that those who have not received asylum in Europe and are illegally returning quickly. And other steps have been taken. And even from the words of politicians, those we see as close, that is, Austria, Germany, but also Italy and others, it is clear that they have learned from what has happened, and everyone today says that what happened in 2015, 2016, must never happen again. So the situation has really changed. And it's not entirely fair in my opinion not to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a factual remark, I will ask Mr Válek to speak and Mr Skopeček will prepare himself. Those are two requests for factual comments so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope I've noticed that this will be a really factual point. Now, in a few speeches, it was said that we should - if I put it right - defend, prevent, limit migration. I'd like to know if it ever happened in the history of any state except that he made fences, set hedgehogs and shot those migrants in some way. If so, I would very much like to hear how the state did it. And then I would very much like to hear from those who propose that we stop, prevent the migration that they have a plan to prevent it. Well, that's a point of fact, a question to those who propose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u31	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček now. Please, your de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u32	Thank you very much. I also allow myself to respond through you to a colleague named Langšádlová. I do not really think that the decline of migrants to Europe would be the result of some coordinated, thought-out, common European policy. After all, it is quite clear that the way in which Europe began to talk a little rationally about migration and to speak against it, it was not the result of European political elites agreeing that mass migration was the suicide of Europe, but that number of migrants began to run into the ability of European countries to accept them, to take care of them in any way is to accept them from the boats to their countries. This is also the result of the fact that some states - especially Hungary - have made it clear that they will not accept migrants. Only some courageous politicians who were able to confront mass migration have forced European political elites to respond to this. If we let Germany or the European Union deal with this without expressing, in particular, the V4 countries in the way they have spoken and how they have acted, I think it has become much less limited in the number of incoming migrants. On the other hand, in fact, if migration has ever been stopped. I would ask: Has the potential of migration ever been smaller? He was always the same. There have always been poorer regions, regions where there was war, regions where there was famine. There was always potential for migration. But the other side, in this case, the European Union, did not open the door to this potential, as it did a few years ago. If she had done it 20 years ago and opened up, we'd have the same problem as we do today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u33	Thank you. Now, once again, the request for a factual remark - Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u34	Thank you for the floor. I'm just going to react very briefly. Of course there was a common solution. Please take a look, my colleague, through Mr President, only at the European Council records. After all, you, too, must have noticed a meeting with our premieres before the European Councils. And I'm sure you remember that the migration agenda has always come first for the past few years. And they were really concrete steps that we were informed about. And the fact that there were also steps by country, yes. We, individual countries, are part of the European Union. And, of course, if we take these steps, we will push at the European level to change some things, so they will change. This is not really about us here and the European Union somewhere else. We are, as Jarda Bžoch says very nicely, we are part of the European Union, we are the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u35	Thank you. And one more request for a factual remark - Mr Jiří Kobza. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond by your means to my previous speaker, Mr Válek, on his question of halting migration. I think that in the first phase, the removal of those incenses, those incentives for migration, that is, the impunity of illegal residence in the territory of our state, the right to all security, free health care, education, social benefits. And at some point, on the other hand, if these people knew that staying with us was illegal, and that they wouldn't get anything for free, I think that migration to this extent would definitely not happen. So it's just in the front row. [[16.00 hours]] And second of all, if there is still criminal smuggling in our country, but illegal residence in our territory is a criminal offence with a fine of up to CZK 5,000, then, of course, it is inconvenient in the case of these migrants, and secondly, it is certainly not demotivating. So I think that, first of all, removing the motivation for migration is the first solid and reasonable basis for reducing this migration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u37	Thank you and now I have no further factual points, so I will ask Mr Kopřiva to speak. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And Mr. Jiří Kohoutek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't know how I got that honor after an hour and a half to finally get to the floor with my first application. Dear colleagues, dear government, global then about safe, controlled and legal migration, there is again a scam with the translation, but regular migration really means legal migration, not a regular one, or as it is translated on the conspiracy websites, so the declaration has 34 pages and is freely accessible on the UN website, so it can be easily traced, can be read, which I'm sure all my previous speakers have done, and therefore they learned that it is a non-binding document that has a declarationative and some indicative character, and therefore it is unenforceable from the point of view of law and cannot bring anything new, binding to the Czech Republic or the EU. Why? Because that's what the participating states agreed on. Now to the cooperation. Which club do we want to be in? Do we want to be in Donald Trump and Viktor Orbán, or do we want to be in a club of 191 states from 193 UN Member States that have agreed on this pact and now intend to accept it? I think the Czech Republic should be a confident country and be in the other club. It is, in itself, a huge step forward in this effort to solve global problems together, and global migration is certainly our common problem. According to the DHL, it's 68.5 miles in motion. people, figures from last year, and their country was forced to leave 25.4 miles. People. It concerns all continents, all continents. Again, I see no reason why this should not be dealt with together at a global level. Now a little bit about why we're even discussing this here today. I do not fully understand this, because, as has already been said here by the Minister, whom I have to support with this, the New York Declaration was adopted in September 2016 and the current version, which is likely to be approved in December of this year, so much time for discussion has been and will still be. Why has it been proposed now, two weeks before the municipal elections, this global issue that has nothing to do with local councils and Senate elections, that's a mystery to me. In addition, points such as the register of contracts, where appropriate the extension of the SAO's powers, pension reform is postponed, etc. - topics which are more relevant to the forthcoming elections and which are more likely to burn citizens of this Republic. So, in my opinion, designing a point like this by chance before the municipal elections is indicative of a lack of subjective topics. However, since we have already included this on the agenda, I would like to highlight a few points from the global pact on safe, managed and legal migration and, through the President, I would like to ask the opponents of this pact who may wish to withdraw from it, what the pact is, those declarations in it, contrary to the resolutions that we adopted in this parliamentary term in the House, or the Committee on European Affairs or other committees that have taken a stand on this. What, in particular, does the specific sentences bother the opponents of the global pact? Because if we look into it, really, it is not a long document, 34 pages, so we can see that among the most important objectives set out in the pact, there is, for example, the protection of human rights, regardless of their status, especially the rights of women and girls and the promotion of their full, equal and meaningful involvement, we can also ensure that all children, regardless of whether they are refugees or migrants, will have access to education within a few months of arrival in the host country. This helps integration in the result. Further prevent and combat sexual violence, provide support to the countries that rescue, receive and provide refuge in their territory for a large number of refugees and migrants, which the Czech Republic is doing. We are often calling it even in the resolutions here, for example, the last time we provided Libyan Coast Guard with some ships, sending police officers and other personnel assistance to the most overloaded states, and we all report to it on the Committee on European Affairs. It is also one of the objectives, for example, to find a way to end children's childhood in order to determine their migration status. As we've seen, Donald Trump's trial in California has stopped the child lockdown. We don't want that. And then, of course, there are declarations, like awareness campaigns and rejection of xenophobia and racism. I don't think anyone should have a problem with that either. If so, then sign up for it. But I want to hear a specific formulation that bothers the opponents of this pact. Then, of course, there are some wordings that do not correspond to the ideals of this Chamber of Deputies, but we must take into account that 191 states were involved, and therefore this is a common minimum. It can't be as perfect as we would dream here. If we don't like something, we should have pointed it out right now in the two years that have passed since the New York Declaration. It's pulled out now, two weeks into the municipal election. Surprisingly. I haven't heard a single thing from the opponents before that they may have called on the government to negotiate better one or the wording. So if we are bothered by these wordings, it is the responsibility of the government to negotiate a better position, but overall it is a document to which the Czech Republic must join if it wants to act as a confident and sovereign country, as part of the EU, as part of a global community. As far as the proposed resolutions are concerned, the Pirate Party is happy to join some consensual resolution, as we have already done in other debates on migration, but, as the classics say, slap it in the air. If there should be even a hint that the Czech Republic should not join the pact, we fundamentally reject it. According to the Czech Pirate Party of the Czech Republic, this pact should be accepted even if it is not perfect. In conclusion, I would like to ask once again and lastly the opponents to list here specific wordings that bother them, so that we can have some fun, and we can adopt a resolution that will give the government a mandate to negotiate some better wordings that we like more, but so far all I can hear is haunting and threatening, intimidated two weeks into municipal elections. It doesn't seem entirely fair. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u39	I, too, thank you, and now we have three factual points. First, please, with Mr Koten's factual remark and Mr Benešík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to respond here through Mr President to the calls for us to present some evidence that the declaration is not okay or that something is okay with it. There are pejoratively referred to two states, such as the United States of America, absolutely sovereign, Hungary as perhaps a club of some bad states, which actually took the liberty of rejecting the UN declaration on a global pact on migration. I don't understand why we should democratically order a state to act, whether it's democracy, or whether those states are sovereign, if that's what they've decided. I think national states should make their own decisions, and not when a neighbor jumps into a well, jumping after him! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u41	Thank you, too. And please, Mr Benešík, with his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. A few notes, because the debate, when I'm watching from the office, you know, so often there's a sentence that Viktor Orbán stopped the migration. The story's a little more colorful. And I don't have that much time, but for many reasons I respect Viktor Orbán very much, and some aspects of his policy may personally appeal to me very much, after all, we are both in the European People's Party and I think I know him a little better than most Members. But it was like he had a problem back then. He had a problem because he had thousands of refugees there, migrants, let's call them what we want, who wanted to go to Germany. And he just called that lady Merkelová, and they sort of agreed to break Dublin together. And they broke it. She just told him to send those people over there to Germany. So let's be fair. He didn't solve the problem so much, he moved it to Germany to some extent, albeit in good faith. Do you know that the Czech Republic has adopted about fifty Venezuelan in recent months - I see Pavel Kováčik coming - who are fleeing from the construction of communism in Venezuela? Yes, they're our third countrymen, fourth knee. But they're here. And I don't see any demonstrations here. I would also like to stand up for Mrs Šojdrová. She introduced her proposal to party grémies a long time ago, at the beginning of spring. That's not some last scream. And she kept it rather secret because she really wanted to help those kids. I warned her that if this became a topic, God forbid it wouldn't help anyone before the election, because it would only become an election theme and we wouldn't place any 50 orphans here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u43	Thank you. And please, Mrs Majerová, Mrs Langšádlová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u44	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to respond to the previous speaker of the pirát František. I made a few notes. So, first of all... So I personally believe that if you find the global pact on migration a secondary issue -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u45	Madam, please address your colleagues through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u46	Through the President, yes. So if you consider the global pact on migration as a secondary issue that we should not be dealing with in the House, I personally think it is far more important than the subject you mentioned. That's number one. Then, as has already been said here, this pejorative touch on the US or Hungary, I, on the contrary, stand strongly in support of Mr Orbán and in any way how Hungarian politics develops. So please don't put us all in one bag. That's note number two. Furthermore, if this global pact in your opinion, and as has already been said, is not binding, so if it is not binding, then at that moment it is not important, because what does not bind a person, then at that moment it is not obliged to sign it. And you're saying that if the Czech Republic wants to be strong and sovereign, it has to be on someone's side. But the Czech Republic is sovereign. It still is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u47	Thank you for keeping time. Madame Langšádlová, please. Mr Kováčik will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Sovereign. This is where the word has been repeated a lot in recent weeks. And the Czech Republic is a sovereign state, of course. But just as another 192 sovereign states are gathered in the UN. And there are some issues that concern all of us sovereign states. This is not some dictation, one UN, the other EU. These are simply topics that we have in common. These are definitely topics of migration. These are definitely climate, water, and many others. And that is why it is very important that, in some areas, those states come to some consensus on how to deal with those issues that concern them all. It's not some dictation, it's not an attack on our sovereignty. And it is so that 191 states of those 193 have actually occurred, and of course it must be a big compromise, when it comes to some agreement of such a number of states, almost all the states of the world, it is perfectly logical that they do not speak with one voice. It is perfectly logical that he sees it differently, and the document, the final document that has been discussed for a long time, must be a big compromise. But that is no attack on our sovereignty. It's just that we're part of some community, that we're here in the world, we're not alone, that there are other completely sovereign states here. To see this as an attack on our sovereignty, I find it completely wrong. Countries in the world must cooperate, even if they represent different places in the world, different rich and poorer states. We have to work together and listen to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u49	Thank you, too. And please, Mr Kováčik, with a point of fact. Last one at the moment. Not anymore. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u50	Thank you for the floor. Have a good afternoon, everyone. I have heard my name from my colleague Benešík's mouth, and I have to say, through the President, to Mr Benešík in the direction of my colleague, that with all clarity and determination, I claim that I am not responsible for any change or situation in Venezuela, or in any other sovereign country or state on this globe, and that I fully respect the right of citizens to choose their representation, to choose my regime and also to defend my representation, my regime, my culture, my laws. In the same way, I am not behind the economic, cultural, commercial or other blockade that is currently being plagued by Venezuela. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u51	Thank you, too. And please, Mr Stanjura, with a factual remark. Then Mr Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u52	I'd like to respond to those nice words about the UN. Well, I have a different opinion. It's true, last time I spoke of the UN, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip told me I had to apologize to the UN, so there's no way I'm doing it. I will just remind those who defend this organization, what the human rights defence group may look like, and who strengthen human rights in European countries, what dictatorial regimes personalize it. I want to recall the scandalous decision by UNESCO, respectively. a resolution towards Jerusalem and our ally. We also discussed this in the Chamber of Deputies. We have adopted a resolution in great agreement. We even called on the government to stop paying membership contributions. Unfortunately, the government has done nothing. It's nice that we agree here, but if the government doesn't actually implement the will of the Chamber of Deputies in foreign policy, it's wrong. Let us remember the debate on the agreement with Turkey. The resolution of the Chamber of Deputies and what the government has done. So today we will probably find a resolution, but I fear that fate will be the same as in other foreign policy resolutions that it adopts, and I want to say by a large majority, the Chamber of Deputies. What's sad? Almost always the point that we are to debate in foreign policy is advocated by the opposition. The government resists first, then we threaten an extraordinary meeting, so then sometimes they let us do the point. Then, oddly enough, or for the benefit of the matter, we usually find a consensus, we find a joint resolution, but that's it. And I'd like that practice to change. And I would like the government itself to propose a point on such serious questions - not that we will give it as a proper point of the meeting - already in the invitation. And to say: it is very extraordinary, we want to know the opinion of the Chamber of Deputies, we want to be equipped with a strong mandate for the Czech Republic, we defend the Czech national interests together. We are always here with President Fiala saying that abroad we will be only as strong as we will be at home united. And that unity is being formed in the debate in the Chamber of Deputies and the resolution adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u53	Thank you. And please, Mr Benešík, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u54	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apologize to Pavel Kováčik, because I certainly do not think that he is behind the political changes in Venezuela, but somehow my commentary came into the hall and thus it was all white. Anyway, I wanted to say that these people came to the Czech Republic in the programme of the krajan precisely because they simply have a political problem in their homeland or in the country where they were born. That's about it. I don't think we're making a big hello out of this. I have the impression that many of you didn't even know it was like that. A The Czech Republic is doing it, no one is offending it, and we can just handle these people. I think we should be a little generous, let's not be narrow-minded. Not everyone who visits the Czech Republic wants to destroy the Czech Republic. That doesn't mean we shouldn't be careful. I certainly don't want to say that. It's often called Donald Trump and American politics. I don't know how many of you were on the Mexican-American border. I do. And you know, since when are the walls Donald Trump has been planning for so long, and they're already there? Since the '90s, Bill Clinton's put the walls through there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u55	Thank you. I would like you to address your apologies to the other Members through me in the future. This has exhausted the factual points and I invite Mr Jiří Kohoutek to the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly tell you why not the global pact on migration, more precisely two pacts, on migration and refugees. The declared objective of the agreement, which is supposedly legally non-binding according to our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is to promote safe, managed and legal migration and reduce the number of smuggling and trafficking cases. If the UN agreements signed by national leaders ratify parliaments, non-binding, I see no reason to deal with such an agreement at all, to waste time and energy when it does not actually exist legally. Of course it's not true. It's just a purposeful lie and an exemplary demonstration of the salami method that migrants are trying to get us clearly ahead of the finished fact that our country is no longer ours. As Tomio Okamura has already said, the UN Pact and the subsequent resolution of the European Parliament have highlighted the human right to leave the country and to use the right of asylum somewhere. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is for a longer discussion, but I would begin by reminding Article 30, which says: Nothing in this Declaration can be interpreted as giving any State, any group or person any right to engage in activity or to commit acts which would be aimed at suppressing any of the rights or freedoms in this Declaration. Article 3 says: Everyone has the right to life, freedom and personal security. The right to security, to life and to freedom is undoubtedly the most important value, which is why these rights are mentioned right at the beginning of the declaration. The first is to mention the equality of all people without distinction. Ladies and gentlemen, the UN is planning to place at least 10 percent of migrants in civilized countries, which is tens of millions in order. Mass migration would destroy Europe's face and cultural values without terrorism. It is clearly a threat to the security of the citizens of the host countries, increasing crime, murder, theft, robbery, drug distribution and trafficking in human beings. The migrants also bring with them their mostly Islamic culture, which rejects equality of all and freedom and rights for all. She's actually rejecting civil society as a whole. The promotion of such migration, the UN Pact proposal and the European Parliament resolution are therefore clearly contrary to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. For us Czech citizens, let us say that it is in absolute contradiction with our interest to live in a free, safe and prosperous Czech Republic. I stress this in Czech at the end. If we want the Czech Republic to be Czech, then we have no choice but to resist any pressure to receive culturally inadaptable migrants under any pretext. As we're all sitting here today, no one seems to be interested in increasing the crime rate here, in the process of female circumcision, in the streets selling drugs, in men killing their sisters, in daughters for dubious honor, in criminal gangs raping and selling women and children, in order for women to walk dressed like garbage bags. Who misses it, has a chance to enjoy it daily in Western Europe wherever migrants from Africa and the Middle East have settled. I recognize their right to live in their own country, and we insist on the right to live in our own way and between our own in our own country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u57	Thank you, too. Next, please, Mr Radek Koten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u58	Once again a beautiful afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me at least take a brief tour of the past. This year we commemorated a hundred years of Czech statehood. During this time, our state was quite regularly threatened and tested from outside, sometimes even from within, usually with iron regularity in the years ended by number 8. In ten days we will commemorate the Munich betrayal of our Western allies, i.e. September 29, 1938, after which the Second World War soon broke out. After the liberation from the invaders of fascist Germany was followed in 1948. August 1968 and the invasion of friendly armies of the Warsaw Treaty into our territory we have recently recalled. The only date out of the question is November 1989, which was one year late, but that's when we got our freedom back. We have here 2018, which unfortunately brings further pressure on our Republic, but this time from the UN pen, but again supported by our Western neighbours, Germany, France and other countries through a project called the European Union. We have seen the arrogant behaviour of the European Parliament towards the sovereign state of Hungary live and it is foolish to think that this institution will act differently than by force. It will question anything contrary to the views of their unelected officials and their MEPs who will never defend the interests of any national state and its citizens. I am considering the vote of the Czech Members in the European Parliament against Hungary. Freedom to decide who will live in the territory of our state is the privileged right of a Czech citizen, not any official sitting somewhere in Brussels or in the United States at the UN headquarters. A global pact for safe, managed and regular migration, the most such translation corresponds to the content of this document. It suggests that the states signing this document commit themselves to taking virtually anyone in their territory and apparently in any number, even at the cost of their self-destruction, even though it has been said here several times by the Minister of the Interior and by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in one person that it is not binding. This scenario has been going on for several years to the west of our borders, and this global pact is also intended to force the disobedient V4 countries to the same scenario at any cost. We should take an example from the United States and Hungary, who have withdrawn from signing this pact for obvious reasons. The neo-Marxists' fuss in the European Parliament confirms that Hungary's approach is the right one, because if it were nothing, all of these things would take place completely calmly. The Czech Republic and its citizens, whom I represent and will always defend their interests, do not wish to sign this pact. The sovereignty of our state lies in the possibility of choosing who we allow to live on our territory and who we will not allow on it. The security of citizens of the Czech Republic must be a clear priority and must be completely superior to any dictation. The inhabitants of this country do not want multicultural attempts to migrate from completely culturally different civilization circuits that cannot be integrated into our environment. In Western Europe, these efforts have completely failed. I therefore ask the Government and the Minister of Interior and Foreign Affairs in one person to withdraw from this pact following the model of Hungary and the United States. If we submit to dictation this time as in Munich, it will be a betrayal of our own politicians who do not honor the oath they took to the inhabitants of this country. [[16.30 hours]] I'd like to use one more historical tour of the past. You must remember the speech by former MEP Zuzana Roithová, then it was to sign the Treaty of Lisbon, I think where she finally danced and said: do not be alarmed. So please don't be alarmed and reject this global pact. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u59	Thank you, too, and now, please, Mrs Jarošová. Mr. Peksa will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, the Czech Republic will be faced with a decision on how to stand at the UN meeting in December on a material called the Global Pact on Migration, which is intended to set rules for legally managed migration and set conditions for the integration of migrants. Although this pact tries to act as a step in the right direction, it opens Pandořin's box, as it sends a signal that migration is natural and actually desirable and anyone who decides to migrate can therefore expect a friendly attitude from the signatories to the said pact. This may mean that those who have hesitated so far will be on the road because they will be practically called upon to do so. We are in danger, which, as the migration crisis demonstrated in 2015, Europe will not be able to cope with. The fact that the document is at least controversial also states that the US has rejected it, and Hungary is equally rejecting it. Its adoption is greatly tied hands to States that will be forced to respond to any migration wave, because it practically prevents states from defending their borders and deciding who will be admitted to their territory and under what conditions they will receive any asylum. Our Republic is one of the countries with the most sophisticated asylum policy that allows us to reject potentially risky persons, but we will lose our advantage by signing this only. I therefore call on the Czech Government to reject the US-Hungarian pact. If he does not do so, it can cause our countries to face the same problems that we see in Western European countries that have pursued a friendly migration policy in a few years. I do not want to live to see this - and I believe I speak for the vast majority of Czech society - that Teplice or Brno will be the second suburb of Paris. The Prime Minister should clearly declare the position of the Czech Government on this global pact. If the government fools us in the sense that its signature is not really a big deal, then it is only deceiving our citizens. If he's really that safe, then I don't understand the opposition of the US, and the government should explain it to us. I firmly believe that you will find the strength to defy this document and defend the interests of the Czech Republic and its citizens. I'm 100% sure that if we were in your position as our SPD movement, there would be no reason for us to have a very long discussion here today. It's up to you to decide. I would also like to tell Minister Hamáček, through Mr President, that I do not believe what you have explained to us about the global pacts, and it is untrustworthy for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u61	I also thank Mr Benešík and please make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm just a brief response to President Koten. He forgot two in those eight anniversaries, and that is - now I will quote to you: "The government will do its utmost to open up to Europe and the world as acceptable as possible and transform itself into a multicultural society. " So that's 1998, the government's programming statement to Miloš Zeman. And that was successfully followed by the chair of the movement, or by the SPD party, which, in 2008, became the face of the European Union's multiculturalism in the tenth anniversary of this programming declaration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u63	Thank you for this point of fact, and I am now asking Mr Peksa for a general debate. Okay, Mr. Peksa cancels the application, so I'm asking Mrs. Němcová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u64	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have decided to speak on this point to remind the Chamber of Deputies that we have dealt with the topic of migration several times in the past and it was already in 2015, in 2016. We have adopted a rather strong, serious resolution that certainly supported the then government, and I believe it was also for the future government. [[It's busy in the hall.]] I will remind you that we have rejected the permanent quotas for the redistribution of migrants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u65	I will interrupt you, Madame. I have a feeling there's an increased movement in the room, and I don't know if it's related to the item under discussion, so I'd like to ask for more peace of mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u66	So the fact that we are dealing with this subject today is not the first time, but it is a good thing that we are dealing with it. After all, my colleague Jan Skopeček presented an important position on what is called the Information of the Government on the position of the Czech Republic on the global pact on migration. I have taken advantage of the opportunity that, as I understand it, a compromise agreement was established in the negotiations on the agenda for the meeting that, under this point, we will also deal with a question that is more sensitive for someone, for someone less sensitive, for someone more, for someone less up-to-date, that is, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš's statement on the issue of acceptance, the possible acceptance of fifty orphans, children without an escort, into the care of the Czech state. His absolute rejection with the words "why would we accept them" and I quote, "why would we accept them, we have orphans in our country, which we must prepare to enter into life" I think has aroused the attention of the Czech public, and therefore I, on this point, which is somehow connected with the main topic, but also with this, want to comment on it. I want to remind you that we are a wealthy society, one of the world's most economically prosperous countries. It is not possible for us to say that a rich democratic, free society, a society of mothers and fathers, is not ready to take care of 50 children who do not have parents. It seems to me that this is a fundamental question of whether society has a future ahead of it, if it rejects basic human aid, helping the most defenseless creature, i.e. helping children. That is why I am expressing myself. And I want to remind you that the Czech Republic also has something to return. In the past, in 1938 - those eight-year years were mentioned here, but I will mention one important link, which has already been mentioned here - in 1938, a bank official from London Nicolas Winton arrives in Prague, who would not have to worry about what happens in Czechoslovakia, when the entire anti-Jewish agenda is already taking place, the Nazis are starting. This bank official arrives and his half-year work in Czechoslovakia then results in the rescue of 669 mostly Jewish children. He got them from a republic that had already been hit by a Nazi yoke, got them out of the Republic using eight transports. Unfortunately, the last transport, which was scheduled for September 1, 1939 and was intended to save another 250 children, did not leave. World War II broke out, and most of these children ended up in gas chambers, just like most of the parents of the 669 saved before. [[16.40 hours]] Great Britain, as one of the few countries, found the strength to accept these children and take care of them and give them a chance in life. I will remind you that based on this fact, these historical facts, a school programme has been established, which is still going on between pupils and students of our schools. It is based on the work of a number of Czech documentaries, a number of Czech filmmakers who made a story about Nicholas Winton's life, thereby conveying his work, his relationship with children, his care for basic human values to the youngest generation of our society. If we are talking about fundamental issues that form the fundamentals of the humanistic perspective, I would like to remind you that it was the pupils and students who had already organised a petition in the Czech Republic in 2011-2012 and that it was intended that Nicholas Winton be proposed for the Nobel Committee to award the Nobel Peace Prize winner. They were students, the petition had about 213 thousand signatures - 213 thousand signatures, we move around 2010. Of this 133,000 were the signatures of pupils and students on the basis of an educational program. The fate of a man who saved 669 children from an almost hopeless situation inspired them to build their priorities and look at what is also their job, how they want to build a society in which they will live. Sir Nicholas Winton received the order of Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk from President Havel in 1998, then was promoted by the Queen of England in 2002. In 2014, I think it was President Miloš Zeman who awarded Nicholas Winton the highest Czechoslovak award, the Order of the White Lion, precisely because he saved almost 700 children from a hopeless situation. And we are talking here about whether at a time that is safe for us as the Czech Republic, when we are economically strong, we are really able to talk about not being able to take care of 50 children? That we don't have enough money in the Treasury? Enough altruism, enough ability to perceive what is the fundamental value of human society? I think it's something I can't accept, which I'm going to fight very hard here. I do not want to use strong words, but I must conclude that if the Brit came to the Czech Republic in 1938, which said "I will save the children" and saved them 669, I find it tragically sad that in 2018 there is a Slovák Prime Minister who says that 50 children cannot be taken care of by our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u67	Thank you. It is here with Mrs Válková's factual remark, and then Mr Kobza will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u68	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, I would just like to point out one thing. I'm not gonna criticize my previous speaker for whatever she said here. In the political context of her speech, we see her long-term stance, critical of everything that the YES movement is doing, the government is currently doing. However, I cannot forgive myself for one remark that she has just demonstrated here in absolute historical, social, politically unacceptable comparison of two events that have absolutely nothing to do with each other. It surprises me, even a little as a tutor, who must always be based on facts, or should be based on facts, because I thought that Mrs Němcová, by your means, Mr President, would also not be reduced to such manipulation of history and compare the orphans she spoke of with the so-called. The phenomenon of Syrian orphans, which we don't know yet if they exist in a specific form, and still used historical data here. So it looks like it's really two events that can be compared. You can't compare them at all. I just have a point of fact, so I can't talk any longer. But whether Mrs Němcová, by your means, Mr President, will keep her before the performance, or I would recommend her to have some historical analysis processed, because I do not believe in my ears. I was really surprised, I wasn't counting on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u69	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Němcová, then Mr Benešík, will respond with a factual point. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u70	Thank you for the floor. If I am asked here to have some analyses done before each of my performances, then I would like to remind Mrs Válková, who asked for it, of her statement here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, also about our history. We talked about what happened in Czechoslovakia during the Nazi occupation. Your statement is probably traceable, I don't want to distort it, but it sounded like, let's just say, the Čech didn't suffer that much. Maybe it's you who could keep an expert explanation from every performance that goes to the future. And secondly, in my opinion, what is more related to each other than whether there has ever been a power to help children, and today there is no power to help children? How is this unrelated to each other these two questions? And questioning whether it's orphans or not, I don't want to go into that at all. I said here that Nicholas Winton saved 669 children, their parents put them in those transports. They were not orphans, yet the United Kingdom accepted them and took care of them. And the connection is quite clear that if there's someone here who needs help, there's an advanced company that's going to offer help.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u71	Thank you. I would like to ask you, for the next time, to address the other Members through me. And now I beg Mr Benešík with a point of fact and then Mr Výborný and others. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u72	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It's always difficult to compare some historical events. Of course, it's only the difference that's played a big role for 80 years. And I think that maybe a child without parents, whether he has them dead or not, doesn't know where they are, whether it's 1938, or if it's 2018, it's a little bit of a comparison.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u73	Thank you. I just deleted Mr. Výborný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, with a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u74	I'm glad I'm back in the world and I'm not deleted. I can't do it. I would like to stand up for you, Mr Vice-President, Mrs Válková, Mrs Němcová, because I am deeply convinced that these two things are related. I'll leave the historical facts entirely to the side. But we're talking about values that I'm deeply convinced of where our society stands. These are values of solidarity, compassion, humanity towards children. And in that sense, these two things really have a profound connection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u75	Thank you, too. I would like to call on a serious House to try to stick to or return to the original subject on this point. And now, please, with the factual remark of Mrs Mráčková. Mr Kupka will be ready, then Mr Schwarzenberg will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Again, Mr President, I would like my name to be Mračková Vildumetzová. Thank you very much. I would like, in fact, to respond from this point of view to Mrs Němcová's contribution, Mrs Němcová. Through you, I would like to say the regional view of the Governor of the Karlovy Vary Region. To make you all realize that we in our regions are setting up children's homes and establishing baby homes. Do you know how many children we have in these facilities today? It's about 7,000 children. [[16.50 hours]] These kids are looking for a foster family. For example, we have 122 children in the Karlovy Vary Region today, for whom we are looking for foster parents, foster parents, and we are failing. We do all kinds of commercial spots, events to find those foster parents for these kids. If we look at the Moravian-Silesian region, it's 600 children. So we have thousands of children in our children's homes, in baby homes, and we don't have surrogate parents for them. They live in those institutions, their parents disown them, and we can't find them. And I think that in the first place we should be looking for surrogate families for our Czech children who are in our institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u77	Thank you, too. I'm sorry for making your name mischievous. And now, please, Mr Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u78	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, I, of course, also want to stand up for Mrs Němcová through you, because it is clear that the general principle applies. It is valid during the times, and that cannot be called into question. A simply advanced society will naturally help those who are on the run from the war. And we have enough legal instruments to assess individual specific examples of whether they meet what is in the legal order. If they really are the people who deserve protection. And in this case, we're supposed to approach each case individually. If the Prime Minister had not made it a media case, which is now bowing down, which someone is trying to use to their advantage, or turn it over to someone else, the Czech Republic could provide such assistance in a standard way. The fact that this has become such a topic at the moment is certainly not the fault of those who are now calling for the Czech Republic to be able to meet its level and its natural obligations established in international treaties.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u79	Thank you. Mr Schwarzenberg is now making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u80	Mr President, honourable Members. Supposedly, a 100th anniversary celebration of October 28, 1918 is about to take place in a month. Since we have long given up on the idea of Czechoslovakia, that we are fighting the bearing idea of Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk for Europeanism and cursing on Europe, and now we have also given up on his great ideas, namely humanity, and we are expressing the state policy of anti-humanism, against orphans, against refugees, against children, I would ask that the celebrations of October 28 for the excess of hypocrisy be dismissed. Because I'd be ashamed to remember what we started in 1918. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u81	Thank you, too. And please, with the factual remark of Mrs Válková, then Mr Kalousek in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u82	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, the values that my previous speakers have mentioned here, of course, we also recognise. I certainly confess them, even my colleagues. There's no discussion of that here at all. I'm just surprised that you're all so 100% sure that you can offer these Syrian children, orphans, real help. And that's the big difference. Then let us discuss specifically who the Syrian orphan needs, what is better for him. I was at the birth of the Children At Risk Fund, I know the orphans' problem very well. Even those mentioned here by the Governor, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. I hope I got it right. And these children really need our help and they don't get it, they stay in those institutions. And we will be here to score political points before municipal elections and elections to the Prague City Council by quoting here the vague concept of Syrian orphans. Well, I'm not playing this game.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u83	Thank you and please Mr Kalousek with a factual remark. Mr Stanjura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u84	Allow a brief response to the view of the Governor of the Karlovy Vary Region. So surely there are more than 20,000 people living in institutions throughout the territory of the Czech Republic, and they are denied what is natural for every child to be able to spend their childhood in the family. But they live, however sad it is, but they just live safe, they're cared for, they're educated, and they can go to school. We're talking about over 3,000 children in Greek refugee camps. Not that no one saw them there. They're physically there. Not to mention refugee camps in other countries. And on purpose, we're not saying that we want to help these 50 kids. We tell at least 50 children of choice how the government chooses itself. And the kids are there, not that they're not there. And they're under refugee camp conditions, which is something totally incomparable with the conditions of a child's home. Anyway, I understand that living in a foster home isn't the best thing for a child. But you're just here, I'm sorry, you're in the position of a wealthy person who's being asked for help, and you're saying, "I have little, not until I meet all my needs 100%, I'm helping no one." Sorry, Madam President, that is an inhuman attitude. In confronting the deeply human speech made here by Mrs Němcová, your position is inhuman. And I very much hope that most of the Chamber of Deputies will not have it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u85	Thank you for keeping time. Please, Mr Stanjura, with a factual remark, Mrs Langšádlová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u86	The worst reaction is when someone gets out and I agree on something and I fundamentally disagree on something. When Mrs Válková told the government to look into it and select it, I agree with that part. When he says not to abuse the question in the election fight, I agree with that too. But I totally disagree with the rest of it. And, Madam President, you are not the one who should instruct my honourable colleague, Miroslava Němcová, about what history is. I do not like to do this, but I have found your statements on Czech history from 2014, when Mrs Válková was asked what she thinks about the postwar displacement of the German population from Czechoslovakia, and she replied, and I quote, "The worst." I understand it was a reaction to what happened to the Čech before. But there wasn't much going on in the Protectorate. So I don't know where he gets the courage to lecture us about what historical events we're supposed to quote and which we're not. And you're not correct. Mrs Němcová said something completely different than what you were attacking. And if you don't see the connection there, and that's basic, and I would say no obligation, that it's completely normal to take care of orphans, and you don't see the connection, and you're going to divide the orphans by period, origin, religion, race, I don't know what, then don't be surprised that we can't understand each other at all in this debate. The normal reaction of the Prime Minister to the initiative, the debate that was in the Senate last week, would be: yes, that is an interesting incentive, let's talk about it, see if such orphans are there, whether they are interested and whether we are able to take care of them and how to take care of them. And I don't want to anticipate the results of this debate. That's a normal reaction. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] It's not normal to say that an orphan doesn't get away with it. That's abnormal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u87	Thank you. Now, please, Mrs Langšádlová, Mr Španěl will prepare himself with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u88	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Syrian orphans in Greece are not a vague concept. These are absolutely specific children who have gone through a war conflict. And that's the difference between what has been said here, because that's something we can't even imagine when a child goes through a war conflict. And I would like to say that we will therefore propose that we accept 50 of these children according to the government's assessment. [[17,00 hours]] I led the family committee. I proposed an amendment to the Child Welfare Act so that as many children as possible could grow up in the family. And I'm ready again to support what you're saying. I don't want kids living in institutions either. Kids are supposed to live in the family, all kids are supposed to live in the family. And if you come up with a proposal that supports foster parents, foster care, I'm very happy to support it. I don't want our children living in institutions, either. I'm very concerned about this in the long run. Let us do everything we can to help these children, but please, let us not compare this with the help of the 50 children who live in Greece at this time and have been through a war. These are so incomparable situations that I really find it very inappropriate to compare these two things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u89	Thank you, too. I will also invite you to turn to other Members, even if you do not name them, through me. Now, please, Mr Španěl, Mr Kobza will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u90	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not give me this and I have to respond to some of my previous speakers, because I am sad that there is literally a game of emotional play about accepting fifty refugees - orphans. Here are a few questions. One. Our heroic homeland will accept fifty orphans. All right. And what about the hundreds of thousands we let starve to death in Africa? Two. Isn't it really better to help on the spot and everyone? Then I read in the media that orphans are supposed to be children between 12 and 17 years old. Won't they be a threat in a few years, like what happened in France, where the next generations have shown themselves as they have? And three. Who and when will finally help our needy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u91	Thank you, too. I ask Mr Kobza to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wasn't planning on getting off, but it didn't give me that, because what I'm hearing is so far away from the reality of the area, I just had to say my thing. As you may know, I have spent 14 years in the Middle East region in different countries. The social structure of the population is based on broad families, tribal affiliations. This is also confirmed by our Ambassador in Syria, Mrs Filipi. So if we want to help the orphans, and I note that by the age of 15, a man is already a full-fledged soldier in that area, then we will help them return home because, according to the latest reports in Syria, there is no war, only in Idlib, where there is the last enclave of the Islamic State within the corridor. Let's help them go home, help them build schools, help them build housing, help them find their relatives, because these children will be taken care of. Their distant relatives, their tribe or neighbors will take care of them. The company's on it. But for God's sake, please don't pick 50 of the chosen ones out of a few hundred and tie them here to a completely different environment, because this will do much more harm than good. So if we can, let's keep the basic premise, help, be compassionate, be solidarity, but there they are, where they need it. Let's remember one more thing. The only real authority that is entitled to re-establish Syria is the Syrian government. And it must also take care of its inhabitants. So let us help the Syřan rebuild Syria and the children will also be taken care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u93	Thank you, too. You can stay here because you are now registered for the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, through Mr President, I would like to return to the original topic of debate and this is a global pact for safe, managed and regular - or legal, according to momentary interpretation - migration. We've been dealing with a phenomenon of non-binding contracts lately. We had a non-binding memorandum of understanding on lithium, the Marrakech Declaration is non-binding, the eurozone fiscal pact is non-binding for us. I think people are about to start asking us what we're doing here when it's all casual. But we are here to defend and defend this state, this nation, the people who live here with us. Several eight anniversaries were mentioned here. I'd add one more, one more eight. It's been eighty years since Munich, it's been eighty years since the Henlein uprising. The eights are too many, and I see it as a certain memento, a kind of warning to think about what we're doing, because many mistakes were made eighty years ago, and they were irreversible. So as for the global pact, as I said in my speech to the Marrakesh Declaration, the pact is not only dangerous by what it contains, but, above all, it is dangerous by what is not in it, because that is how the architecture of all these treaties is built, which are prepared in the European Commission. For a long time, I was in the business of various standards, and there was a relatively common matter contract on a future contract. And that's basically how we can label these so-called noncommittal contracts, because the trap is at that moment that the contract will start to bind us sometimes, under certain conditions, when certain circumstances are fulfilled. The point is that the purpose of this agreement, this pact, is to make illegal migration legal, legalize it. And that's the thing that's unacceptable to us, because we're still based on the fact that, as a sovereign state, only our authorities are entitled to decide who can be here and who can't be here, who can't be here, who can't be here. There's no way a Řek in Brussels could decide that. That's unacceptable. So this pact is not fallen from heaven. He's not a random solitaire. It is an integral organic part of older activities, tendencies whose programme and goal is the only one - to support, organise, manage, legitimize and legalize mass migration to Europe. I would add that regardless of what the national states that are going to be affected by this think about it. It is nice to hear from the Prime Minister that the Czech migration policy is identical with the Hungarian approach in this area. But to what extent can this be believed? Why does Czech foreign policy and diplomacy invest so much time, capacity and resources in supposedly completely non-binding matters? Why does he participate without protests in events and initiatives whose content is completely contrary to the declared national interests and objectives of Czech foreign policy? The Pact was declared by Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó that this document would provide legal status for people who came to Europe illegally. That's the same thing as turning a famous locksmith into a locksmith without being punished for robbing two pens before. It's not possible to legalize someone who gets here by breaking our laws. That's unacceptable to me, because then you're attacking the principles of the rule of law. Another thing is that a similar declaration, as has already been said here, is a very interesting document for all organisations that somehow feed on migration. These are mainly national and supranational nonprofits, which will wield this pact and appeal to international authorities at the moment when they reach out their palms for further contributions. I don't want to name anybody so I don't advertise any of these nonprofits. [[17.10 hours]] What is very serious is also the unification of the status of refugees and migrants. Which is totally unacceptable under our law, because our asylum law is very clear and very good. Just like our visa system. We cannot allow this to be replaced by something far less quality, much less functional. The Global Pact on Safe, Controlled and Regular Migration concerns people who migrate for reasons other than refugees, not those who are threatened with torture and death for some reason - here I would not like to talk about war criminals fleeing the field of war conflict in Syria and Iraq - but rather leave their homes on the basis of convincing nonprofits about how wonderful it is in Europe. They leave their homes for reasons of poverty, for reasons of their own unfulfilledness, for reasons of wearing it, etc. We have a visa system for these people. We have a system that when they're interested in coming to us, they prove qualifications, they can match some work with a company in advance, they're entitled to a work permit, then they're perfectly legal here, and they're going to contribute to the development of our country. But we cannot contribute to people who come here illegally, declare themselves refugees, and assume that they will receive all the provisions that do not come to our own poor, our own retirees. But in the New York Declaration, the signatory states have made a clear commitment to address the problems we are facing now. And what are the main points? Protect the human rights of all refugees and migrants regardless of their status. It's all mixed up again. To provide support for the countries that rescue, receive and provide refuge in their territory for a large number of refugees and migrants. When it's translated into Czech, we're back to quotas and redistribution. To condemn xenophobia against refugees and migrants and to support the UN's global campaign, which is aimed at xenophobia and racism. I would like to remind you that all the accusations of the Czech Republic of xenophobia, racism and I do not know what else is completely unrealistic, because according to the latest statistics, there are over 520 thousand living here. foreigners who live and work here and have no problem. I could go on like this. But I would go back to how the United States decided to withdraw from the global pact. Because, according to President Trump, this agreement is, firstly, incompatible with his migration policy. American Ambassador Nikki Haleyová said: America is proud of its immigration heritage. He is a leader in supporting migrants and refugees in the world, but the global approach of the New York Declaration contradicts the sovereignty of the United States. I think there are very, very serious words. And our attitude is very much the same with him. According to the U.S. mission to the UN, the New York Declaration contains several provisions that are not compatible with US immigration and refugee policy and with Trump's immigration Trumpův. Which I think is pretty inspiring for us. The US and its executives certainly cannot be suspected of the ignorance of international policy and international law. Their decision to withdraw from the processes set up by the New York Declaration, rescinding the global migration pact that we are discussing, has clear reasons. Surely it is not an act of resignation from some casual party, if it is a direct decision of the President justified by concerns about the loss of sovereignty in migration policy. And I would go back to the fact that our asylum system is good and we should hold it and not have it replaced. Because it's one of the few things that can still protect us effectively. The point is, for example. The European Parliament resolution on progress in the Global Pact Initiative, which was voted on 18 April 2018 in the European Parliament, calls for a binding resettlement programme. And you hear well. We're not talking about migration anymore, we're not talking about refugees anymore, but we're talking about resettlement. By the way, the same nine Czech MEPs voted in favour of this resolution, which supported the initiation of sanctions against Hungary, by the way. There are other points in this resolution. Again, they refer to the objectives of the New York Declaration, the importance of protecting the rights of refugees and including the principle of non-return. That means that basically refugees in quotation marks, because suddenly they're all gonna be refugees, so suddenly they can't be returned. Then, of course, there are other things, like when he's a fugitive, which, according to our law, a fugitive is a temporary status, isn't it, so then he's already building up the right to family merger here. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that if we relocate African poverty, disease and brutal violence to Europe, Europe will be as poor, as ill and as violent as Africa is at present. And I spent a year and a half in black Africa on a development project, I know what I'm talking about. And, of course, we don't want that in the SPD. That is why we insist that we focus our assistance on the area so that we focus our assistance on helping refugees, the real ones, return home. And then help them on the spot. Because, as I said here in my speech about helping Jordan, the same situation will sooner or later occur in Syria. Once again, it must be a Syrian state that is justified and obliged to take care of its citizens. At the end of my speech, allow me to propose the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to take immediate action to withdraw the Czech Republic from the New York Declaration for migrants and refugees." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u95	Thank you. Please refer the motion for a resolution to the rapporteur and the President. Now I have one note here, so Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes to us from 17 o'clock to the end of the day for work reasons. And now, please, Mrs Langšádlová, for the debate. No, I'm sorry, Mr. Třešňák is reporting with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u96	Have a good afternoon, or maybe early evening. I will really try to respond briefly through Mr President to Mr Kobza. I am pleased that he has just said that aid is to take place at the point of conflict or in the nearest safe country, and I would like to remind him that it was the SPD that proposed the removal of the entire 200 million item of foreign development cooperation during the 2018 state budget. So I expect that if a different opinion has been expressed today that when the budget for 2019 is being discussed, the SPD will come up with an increase in this item. And if there's still that argument, as you say very often, that money doesn't end up in the right hands, then suggest another concept and another item that will cover the help right at the point of the conflict. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u97	Thank you. Now please, with Mr Kobza's factual remark, then with Mr Kopřiva's point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond by your means to my previous speaker. If development aid is targeted at the Tuamoto archipelago and similar important countries, we will, of course, object to that very much. And the fact that we wanted to give $100 million to disability aids and $100 million to the rescue corps, I think it was fully justified because, after all, the structure of the Czech development aid, and I have been in this area long enough, was really distant from any realistic policy, any policy so that development aid would bring what it really should bring, i.e. strengthened the economy of this existing country and helped strengthen the position of the Czech Republic. The Tuamotu archipelago got me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u99	Thank you, too. So Mr Kopřiva is finally making a point of fact, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to express my slight regret that I am here after about four hours of discussion - three hours of discussion, thank you for correcting - still haven't heard any specific things from the document that bothers his opponents. [[Help from the diaper]] Furthermore, I would respond, through Mr President, to my party colleague, that, not only in the development aid, there is a lack of consistency between the SPD colleagues, but with the declarations themselves, where, as in the global pact, the declaration is that the migration problem is to be dealt with together, and in the Committee on European Affairs, we have adopted a resolution that was a point of declaration that migration to the European Union should be dealt with together, and the representatives from the SPD voted in favour of this resolution. So unfortunately, the lack of consistency is not just in the area of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u101	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u102	I would have responded to my previous speaker's words, and I would have said the basic reservation. That's important, then we can go into these specific things. The Home Secretary here said the deal would be noncommittal. He doesn't tie us to anything. I'm taking him seriously. Mr. Secretary. This morning we rejected the bill with the fact that it was not necessary. And it was the same people who are saying today - and defending the pact - that it's useless. Or many, not all of them. So the basic reservation is - if it's casual, it doesn't bring anything to the Czech Republic, it doesn't oblige us to do anything, so why should we approach it? That's the key question, isn't it? And if it brings any advantages or disadvantages, let's talk about them. If it outweighs the benefits, so let's be in favour if it outweighs the disadvantages, so let's be against it. But to approach something that's casual for us, that doesn't bring us any benefits, supposedly, or disadvantages, so I just don't see the sense there. That's the basic reservation. And when we are clear whether it is necessary, then let's talk about parameters and whether these parameters are beneficial for the Czech Republic or not. But if it's really all casual, I don't know why, I don't know now, 190 states... That's gonna be a big familly photo. 190 people in one picture. And they're gonna go down there, they're gonna rally, and the result is a sea of smiles, a sea of photos to accept a document that's casual. It doesn't make any sense to me. That's the basic reservation. When we get this straight, then we can talk about specific reservations or specific concerns. We have formulated one of these concerns in the motion for a resolution, because we do not know what the final form will look like, so we are just saying, if by any chance these things are in the final proposal, we believe that the Czech Republic is not supposed to approach it, even if it is not to be binding. Then what are we discussing? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u103	With priority rights, Minister Hamáček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u104	Thank you. I will try to explain to the chairman of the ODS club why it is good to have the document, even if it is noncommittal. As I said, it is a political declaration, so it expresses the position of those who are signed under the document. And I think that it is good, even if I turn the argument of my colleagues from the SPD who say that the pact will impose something on us and we will have to regulate our legal order accordingly, which is nonsense, but I think it is good to have signatures of over 190 states of the world under a document confirming that there is a sovereign right of the state to determine national migration policy and the privilege of managing migration in its jurisdiction and that within its sovereign authority, states can distinguish between legal and illegal migration positions, including when deciding on their legislative and political measures for implementing the CGM. That's one piece of evidence for all of why I think it's good to have over 190 signatures under a document like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u105	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u106	Of course, I have nothing against what the Minister quoted. But why do I have to confirm it with the other 189? We have that view that we are supposed to tackle migration and asylum policy ourselves. And then I have a question. At the same time, the Minister is a foreign minister, but if I spoke to him as Minister of the Interior, I would ask, not as Minister of the Foreign Office. Will the representatives of the countries from which people are fleeing be among any signatories to this agreement? Where is there no democracy, where for many really serious reasons refugees or migrants arise? The same officials are gonna sign it, too? And they're serious? And why are these people fleeing to us? Why aren't they happy at home? And the same ones will sign it? That is the UN's problem, that there is one voice for a democratic state and a dictator. This is a major UN problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u107	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Zahradník. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems persistent to me that I am, and all of us who remember this have returned in time a year or a year and a half back in a weird loop. And if I recall the House's negotiations on the Paris Agreement, then we also heard arguments that the agreement had already been signed by all 190 countries that are in the world, and we are the only ones who have not yet signed that we must join them, because otherwise we will be cut off from that planet and sent somewhere outside it. In addition to trying to cover the whole world with her bounty, the Paris agreement is planned for 100 years, by 2100 its creators are planned for its duration. This is also a global agreement, a worldwide pact that also includes all states, and who will not be in it, will also be a sort of supposed outcast, probably also planned for a period of 100 years. And at that time, the United States had already checked out of the Paris Agreement at the time it was discussed. I think we should learn a lesson. At the time, we ratified the Paris Agreement, in my opinion, without consideration, without knowing the consequences. I would quite like us to learn and proceed differently at this point and to consider and reject this agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u109	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Langšádlová, for a proper debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I think the introduction - it is not binding why the Czech Republic should accept what it will bring us. Well, I'd do a little looking around. The Czech Republic is one of the sovereign states. It was established at the beginning of 1993 and subsequently became a UN Member State. This organization was established after World War II, after the failure of the Community of Nations, after Europe had undergone two war conflicts. And I myself do not consider the United Nations to be an ideal community. For example, the Security Council, which still reflects the results of World War II at the moment, is almost paralyzed because it cannot take action quickly enough when war conflicts arise. [[17.30 hours]] Yes, a lot of institutions, a lot of resolutions, declarations may not appeal to me, but I think it is a very important platform that allows the countries of the world to communicate at all, to have some dialogue and to try to contribute in some way to the crises, challenges, problems that the world is facing. No, it's not like I'm taking the declaration and I'm saying yes, I'm identifying myself with every sentence that's here. But that's perfectly natural. When 191 states accept something in different situations, in different circumstances, it is perfectly natural that we cannot all agree with it. Nevertheless, I believe that this is worthwhile, although it is, as has been said, non-binding and declarative. It's casual and it's a declaration, and that's why I think it's completely out of line here to talk about it being a controlled process of migration to Europe and that kind of thinking... No one really needs to be afraid that a similar declaration could cause something like this. But the reaction is natural, because a few years ago Europe, not the Czech Republic, has undergone a serious migration crisis. Although I have actually been an opposition member all this time, I have supported and supported many of the government's actions - including this government. I want to appreciate the government's sending humanitarian aid, helping in refugee camps in Jordan and elsewhere. I am very pleased that we are sending people and organisations such as Frontex and other organisations of the European Union to help. I am very glad that we are sending our people to countries such as Macedonia, Greece and Italy, whether they are officials or police officers and others. I really appreciate all this. And I think that it is still true, and it has been said many times here, the solution to migration is outside the European Union. But what we are talking about at the moment is whether the Czech Republic, apart from this material, material approach to migration, will also show human dimension, human approach, whether we will be able to at least symbolically show solidarity, solidarity, both with those who are fleeing the war and show solidarity with those Member States. And that's why I'm going to read here a resolution that will challenge 50 Syrian orphans, 50 abandoned children. This is not only an expression of solidarity with them themselves, and it is indeed children who have been through a war conflict, but it is also an expression of solidarity with Greece as such, a state that has been severely affected by the migration crisis. And I really want to point out and repeat that similar, perhaps somebody will say a gesture, countries like Britain, but also Israel, which even offered citizenship to these children, have taken a similar step of solidarity. Yes, Israel. I was still checking with Israeli friends. In the spirit of humanity and in the spirit of its roots, Israel, who is really struggling with the surrounding states, has been able to offer aid to hundreds of Syrian children. And I believe that even Czech citizens ultimately show this at this point too, many are ready to give home to these children. The families are here. And I think that's what we have to do. It is also a commitment to our past, because similar gestures - mentioned here by Sir Nicholas Winton - were already here during World War II. But they're not gestures. They were steps that saved lives. And if anyone is talking about safety risks, I would like to say that these children are already in Schengen. These children are in Europe and are in Schengen. And ask yourself, colleagues, the question -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u111	Sorry, I'll cut you off. I would like to ask you, dear colleagues, to keep the noise down in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u112	Ask yourself a question, colleagues. Do you think these particular children, that the security risk is greater if they stay in a refugee camp or when they get into families and get support? Ask yourself that question, too. And really... Let's remember, we have a hundredth anniversary of the Republic. Wasn't that the humanism the founders were talking about? Aren't the values we often talk about here in the House the roots of Europe, isn't that Christianity? Isn't that what you're talking about, protecting you? Which is based on respect for every human being, for every human being? Yes, it depends on our government. Our government depends on who we specifically invite to the Czech Republic. He can check all those kids out. He can tell who does, who doesn't. But that's the government's responsibility. And I trust our Ministry of the Interior and our government that it can create conditions for 50 families to accept 50 Syrian orphans. And since we talk about these values a lot, I couldn't hold on. Colleagues, today I took the liberty of quoting from the Gospel according to Matouš: for I was hungry, and you gave me food, and I thirsted, and you gave me drink, and I was on the road, and you took me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u113	Thank you, ma'am. Good evening, esteemed colleagues. Mr Josef Hájek is registered with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u114	Mr President, colleagues, it has not made me use my mining common sense here. Please, when was the war in Syria? March 15, 2011. That means seven years. If Mrs Němcová here, through Mr President, quotes me as Mr Winton, who, of course, I respect, it is as if she was taking this initiative in 1945, not 2008. Where was Mrs Šojdrová in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017? How can he come up with this initiative up to three weeks before the election? It seems really incredible to me. And I identify with colleagues here who criticize this. As for Mrs Válková, I have the advantage of having an elephant's memory. And I actually remember the situation when she made unfortunate statements from her point of view, it was 9:00 p.m., as secretary, giving it all, she was tired. And then she wanted to express that 20 million people died in the Soviet Union, 6 million people in Poland, and 370 000 people in the Czech Republic. None of you used this. You guys were just low impulses attacking the fact that she said there were no victims in the Czech Republic. She didn't say that. She said a comparison of 20 million Soviet citizens, 6 million Polák and 370,000 people. I'm ashamed of it. And I'm begging you, don't shield yourself from the orphans' election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u115	Thank you for keeping time. I have two factual points here. Mr Marian Jurečka and Mrs Langšádlová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u116	Thank you. Mr President, the only Minister of Government, although the item is called the Government's information in the plural, let me respond here to what Mr Hájek, through Mr President, has just said. [[Only Minister Jan Hamáček is in the hall]] Mrs Michaela Šojdrová, a fellow Member of the European Parliament, has never been interested in this and has never made the election topic as described here. If she had done this - honourable Member, when you laugh at me here, when you look at Google or at press monitoring, Michaela Šojdrová began to communicate the subject on a working level in May before the holidays. She was with the Home Secretary, Mr. Metnar, when he was a minister in the first government. If we want to make this an election theme, we're going to a press conference in May, in June, we're going to get out there and we're going to start talking about it. It was really about the nature of the thing. The election theme made it your Prime Minister's answer in an interview last week on Friday. If he answered in a way that we will honor international law and our own legislation, and if these people meet the conditions that we have in our law, that is, they want to live in their country for political, religious or ethnic reasons, which we have always honored and, as the Czech Republic, we have always behaved that way, and after verification, if those people meet the conditions of the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic, in a situation where there are more than 50 families who have said that they are ready to take these children. So the Prime Minister's answers that we're not going to put them in children's homes - we're not going to. There are solidarity Czech families who are willing. So please don't twist the reality as we can find it. And we really didn't make it a political issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u117	Thank you for keeping time. Before I give the floor to Mrs Langšádlová's further factual remark, and the next, Mr Miroslav Kalousek came forward, I will read the apology. Mr Adam Kalous apologizes between 17.45 and 19.00 on account of the hearing, Mr Adam Vojtěch from the meeting from 18 a.m. to the end of the day. Mrs Langšádlová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u118	Thank you for the floor. I would like to appreciate the initiative of Mrs Šojdrová. It was said here that this was some kind of scream before the election. It's not like that. I myself am of the opinion that we should take above all the most vulnerable and haunted in the field of war conflict and children, as well as children, spoke in 2015, 2016. Of course, it is a big mistake that many people have come to Europe today who do not have the right to asylum, and that we have left the weakest in those countries of conflict. This is a big mistake for all of Europe, because we have supported those who had the strength and money to come to Europe, and the weakest, most vulnerable, most persecuted have often remained in the field of war conflict. But the approach that we have to help children in particular and that we have and can accept families with sick children or orphan children in the Czech Republic, so says TOP 09 in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u119	Thank you, Madame, for keeping the time. Mr Miroslav Kalousek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u120	Thank you for the floor. Mr Hájek asked the rhetorical question, where was Mrs Šojdrová, where was my colleague Němcová in 2011. In principle, this may also be traceable in open sources, or the ladies would tell us themselves, but that's not important. The important thing is the answer to the question of where the kids are now. These are in refugee camps in Greece under terrible conditions. There they are! And either they stay there, or there's someone who can help them move somewhere where they're better off, where they'll feel safer, and especially where they can go to school. So either we're going to think about it, from the left side of the right, we're going to come up with all the procedural and factual reasons why we can't, or because, of course, we can, when we can do it in the UK, when we can do it in other countries, we can do it here. Again, they are in the territory of the Greek Government, in the territory of the European Union in refugee camps, and just a little government activity and a little bit of government attention and 50 or more children, we say at least 50, will have a better life. Either we don't care, or we don't care. That's the very simple question. There's no other one here right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u121	Thank you. Mr Pavel Jelínek is now in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u122	Mr President, the absent government, ladies and gentlemen, at the turn of 2017 and 2018, said the first Vice-President of the European Commission, Frans Timmermans, before journalists: "With a heavy heart, we are launching Article 7. They forced us to do so, but unfortunately we had no other way out. It is not just Poland, it is the whole European Union." Subsequently, in September 2018, it was the first time that the European Parliament voted on Article seven of the Union Treaty, which allows certain sanction mechanisms to be applied to a country. The proposal concerning Hungary was supported by 448 MEPs, 197 opposed and 48 abstained. There are currently Euro Commissioners in Slovakia, where they state dissatisfaction with high corruption. What's next in the next few months? Is this a global campaign against the V4 countries to give up their national policies? What, for example, is happening in Hungary? A few media information: Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is one of the toughest opponents in the EU to receive migrants. According to the last rhetoric, he is also an ally of our Prime Minister Babiš, who, according to his recent speeches, has also a radically negative attitude towards receiving migrants. The European Parliament has, by a clear majority, adopted a recommendation that the European Commission should initiate proceedings against Hungary due to a serious threat to EU values. Nevertheless, the Hungarian Government responded by saying that it was petty revenge because of the denial of migration. Mr Viktor Orbán in the European Parliament has rejected all complaints about violations of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. But isn't the beginning of this whole process, which resulted in the vote on Article seven of the Union Treaty, somewhere in Hungary's recent past? On 1 January 2012, constitutional changes imposed by the conservative government of Viktor Orbán began to apply in Hungary. According to critics, however, it contains nationalist elements and increases government control over the judiciary and the central bank. Constitutional additions and laws have provoked criticism not only by the Hungarian opposition, but also by the European Commission or then US Secretary of State Hillary Clintonová. Brusel criticised, in particular, the constitutional amendments to the economy, including the limitation of the central bank's independence. In her letter to Orbán, Clintonová expressed concerns about the direction of Hungarian democracy, drawing attention to the limitations of the independence of justice and the media. And what about us? Our Constitution begins: We, citizens of the Czech Republic in Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia. Indeed, this does not leave me calm in connection with articles in the newspaper when a British citizen with non-European origin ran into unsuspecting people. Yes, I would rather be committed to more national approach to constitutional laws, especially when we are faithful to all the good traditions of the ancient statehood of the Czech Crown and the statehood of Czechoslovak. In this context, I hear somewhere about robbing the political program of the SPD by Prime Minister Babiš. That doesn't offend me. On the contrary, it fills me with pride that our anti-immigrant part of the program gets space in the media, albeit from other mouths. If we do not exert enough pressure in this area, we will not be debating it to this day. Perhaps even the proorbanian position of the Prime Minister would not be so clear without the consistent action of our movement on illegal immigration. In August, our country was moved by commemorative events for the 50th anniversary of the invasion of the Warsaw Treaty troops into Czechoslovakia. We all remember very well what it is when others decide for us when combat helicopters fly next to our panel houses and zillas crash into our ambulances. I'm sure we're sensitive enough to decide about us without us. Indeed, after ratification of the global pact on migration by individual states, will migration as human law not become superior to national migration laws, thus opening up to millions of migrants new and significantly simpler ways of traveling to Europe, with national legal obstacles breaking down? These are the questions why we reject our government's statement on the global pact on safe, managed and legal migration and on the global pact on refugees presented by the Minister and ask for a resolution from the SPD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u123	Thank you, honourable Member. Next up is Mr Radek Rozvoral. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in advance of my speech, allow me to thank you or, rather, those who supported us here today at the House, to discuss the proposal on the adoption of a position on the UN's global pacts. [[17.50 hours]] The Global Pact on Migration is a comprehensive name that contains two very important documents, namely a global pact on safe, managed and regular migration and a global pact on refugees. The drafts of both contracts are to be discussed at 73. UN General Assembly on 25 September 2018 in New York. According to the UN Secretariat, the final signature of both documents should take place at the UN Special Conference, which is convened in mid-December 2018 in Marrakech. Our Republic should be represented under the authority of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, Minister of the Interior and Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Hamáček, who should not defend the interests of the ČSSD at this meeting, but defend the position that we will be voting on here. Minister Hamáček should defend the position on which he will receive the mandate of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, i.e. defend the interests of all our citizens. Most of our citizens do not want illegal immigrants on our territory, and for this reason we appeal to all Members across the political parties to support the proposal of our SPD to withdraw from these global UN pacts, as decided by the United States in December last year. President Donald Trump commented that the draft agreements were incompatible with his migration policy. Similarly, Hungary has been preserved. Following receipt of the draft UN negotiations in mid-July of this year, the Hungarian Government has ordered all its national authorities to assess the proposed treaties by national law and subsequently the Government has assessed them in terms of compatibility with Hungary's national migration policy. As a result, the Hungarian Government approved Hungary's withdrawal from the UN's global pacts on 6 September. Furthermore, we believe that, in line with the immigration policy of our other partners V4 Poland and Slovakia, they will also withdraw from these treaties on the UN's global pacts. The UN documents state that migration is an irreplaceable and good process that should be supported, which is absolutely unacceptable for our SPD movement. honourable Members, let us support this proposal. Minister Jan Hamáček would then propose to the United Nations to perform the Czech Republic from the UN's global pacts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u125	Thank you, honourable Member. Another party to the debate is Mr Marek Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u126	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to return to the words that have just been said here from the mouth of my fellow Rozvoral. So raise your hand, which one of you want illegal migrants in the Czech Republic. I don't think anyone at all. KDU-ČSL has always said this not entirely consistently. By the way, it would be contrary to the laws in force, so they're valid. What has been said here is just the verge of populism, and it is the statements of those who trade in fear. That's what we're up against, because it's moving the whole thing somewhere else in a completely inappropriate way. If you look into the pact, there's no such thing as illegal migration, so please don't push it around. We really can't have any illegal migrants in the Czech Republic, and that's what the government is here to do. And back to the subject. As far as migration is concerned, Christian Democrats say in the long run that it is necessary to follow the principle of flexible solidarity. This means that migration must be primarily addressed in those places where these people are fleeing, that is, in countries of war conflict, or Africa itself and elsewhere. We've been saying it from the beginning. From the beginning, we have rejected any refugee quotas. Finally, we are pleased that German Chancellor Angela Merkelová has already acknowledged this, too, the absurdity of the introduction of quotas, and has also promised not to vote on migration by qualified majority but unanimously. The principle of flexible solidarity means helping where problems arise, the Czech Republic does. This has already been done by the government in which the people's people sat, and the current government continues to do so, and we will, of course, support it. We just think she should do it really well. Just one example of which I raise my eyebrows a little bit. When Prime Minister Andrej Babiš talks about the need to adopt a special status or a pact to help African countries, the Prime Minister should probably go there and consult with the individual states, and as far as I am aware, Andrej Babiš has not been to the official visit to African countries in five years since he is a minister of several governments. This would require an active approach, and we will certainly support this for our side. And the other thing. We have repeatedly heard the criticisms and the reproach of our MEP Michaela Šojdrová. Well, I'd like to repeat, ladies and gentlemen, it really wasn't an election move from Michaela Šojdrová's mouth. If you look into public resources, you will find that Michaela Šojdrová has been engaged in this issue for a long time. She spoke about this initiative publicly in the spring of this year and, by coincidence, last Friday there was a long-term round table, which dealt with this issue on the upper chamber floor, i.e. the Senate. Of course, logically, this matter attracted journalists, journalists asked for the Prime Minister's opinion, and if Andrej Babiš had not somewhat cynically responded to the media that he would not accept a single or single refugee, regardless of whether it was a two-year-old child or an adult, I believe that we would not have to deal with this matter here at all, and that thing would be resolved in accordance with and in the spirit of the values that have already been discussed here. KDU-ČSL, I repeat it again, professing the values of humanity, compassion, solidarity, mercy. This is what is owned by our company, not only KDU-ČSL, and we believe that it is our responsibility that we do not forget these values and thus apply them really and practically in practice. And here, of course, was the possibility. And we also say very openly and unambiguously: it is the responsibility of the government. I believe the Foreign Minister is able to contact his Greek colleague without any problems. It's not written anywhere that we have to take 50 children or more. It is also about making each of the refugees admitted possibly or not, but security checks. If there are any reasons for the security of the Czech Republic not being accepted, then let it not be accepted either. But the Prime Minister's positions and statements and others on this matter will come to us truly, I would say, shamefully. It is directed against the fundamental human values on which civilized society stands. And let me do one more thing or two. At this point, of course, there has already been, I don't know, what, fifty, but more families who are willing to take on these children without parents, orphans, really. Those kids would go to school here. And it is highly likely that these children would also return home after the situation has stabilized in Syria, possibly elsewhere. And I'm not making it up here because I'm capable, and you can find it in the sources of the Ministry of the Interior - in the 1990s many inhabitants of the Balkans, the countries of the former Yugoslavia, found refuge in the Czech Republic. Specifically, Kosovo has gained a temporary refuge in the Czech Republic of 1 034 people and 903 people have returned to Kosovo of this number. I think it's obvious evidence that it's about solidarity, compassion, and helping others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u127	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Václav Klaus is registered. And with another point of fact, Mr Marian Jurečka is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u128	I would respond with permission to my previous speaker, precisely because I respect and always listen to Mr Výborný when he speaks, even though our opinions are often different. But there are people I don't take seriously, but I'm always listening to you, and I have to say, I'm pretty disappointed in you with the speech and the labeling of some opinions for populism and the trade in fear. Because what you've done is a good business. [[18.00 hours]] There are tens of millions of children in the world who are starving, in Africa, and in Asia. We can't save the whole world anyway. And if you're serious, then sell your property, sell your last shirt, and go save people as František z Assisi. But this is a pure marketing gesture brought here to obscure the nature of the migration problem and the next. [[Applause from different sides of the hall.]] Syrian children belong primarily to Syria. We're not Hollywood stars to bring them here. Syria is a separate country, which is in the UN, has a large part of the territory where there was no fighting, or the children are primarily theirs, as well as the Czech children belong to the Czech Republic. So I'd take the liberty of reacting, but of course I wasn't just thinking about you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u129	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Marian Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u130	Thank you. Mr President, I am rather sad about this debate. [[Laughter and revival in the hall.]] If the legislator who sits in the Parliament of the Czech Republic reads international conventions and our own laws, he will understand that discussing that someone here wants to bring in illegal migrants is completely beyond reality. I would ask the Minister of the Interior to perform here today and say if we have illegal migrants in the Czech Republic, Mr Minister, through Mr President, please. Let us be clear here once and for all in this debate, because then colleagues and Members of the SPD club are telling us how we want to promote illegal migration here. Well, nobody wants to. If I had responded to Mr Klaus's words, I would have paraphrased it in the words of Čechy to the Čech and orphans to the Syřan. Because remember, if we were to act like this, how we perceive the rhetoric of Prime Minister Babiš and some of you others today, perhaps the founder of Marlenka could never come to the Czech Republic, he is Armén, he came here and we helped him when he left Armenia. Do you know, for example, the story of the Iss family, the Issův we see on the screens today, where are her parents and relatives from? And I could go on with a whole bunch of other names and people. For example, we all drink cofola. If we were not open and willing to help in the time of the civil war in Greece, these people would never have come to the Czech Republic. And they came, we helped them, and today they're part of our society. And with those orphans, we're talking about these people being very well tested, which works for us, and I think the security policy of the Ministry of the Interior is at a very good level, and we have questions and questions here in a situation where the help can only be limited in time? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u131	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Miroslav Kalousek, who is registered with a factual remark, and another is Mr Benešík and Mr Plzák, I would like to ask you to really reduce the noise in the hall, because this debate is very different and it would be good for us to pay attention to this debate and to approach it responsibly. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u132	Thank you. Mr Klaus' logic is in a way disarming. There are millions of starving people in the world, we can't save everyone, and because we can't save everyone, we can't help either of them. Of course, it is still possible to look at the problem. Or it is also possible to look at it by simply saying that there are several thousand children in Greece under absolutely terrible conditions, we cannot save them all, we will help some, because other countries will help others. We also don't say there must be exactly 50. We say at least 50. We expect the government to be able to weigh its capacity on how many such children can help, and to do so in a qualified manner, and if we have the will. Or we can make up reasons why we can't. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u133	Thank you for keeping time. Another registered comment is Mr Ondřej Benešík. Mr Pavel Plzák will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u134	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Marian Jurečka here calculated those successful migrants to the Czech Republic who contributed to the development of the Czech Republic, but not all migrants to the Czech Republic were beneficial. Some migrants from Japan, for example, advocated multiculturalism for us in 2008, and this is certainly not a positive issue for the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u135	With a factual remark, Mr Plzák is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u136	Thank you. I won't be offensive or ironic. I will be factual to Mr Jurečka's fellow Member. Please, the civil war in Greece was the help of our Communist Party to its comrades in Greece, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u137	Mr Václav Klaus with a point of fact. I have five more factual points here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u138	I'll give it up. I don't want to stir it up. Perhaps only that it is good to help people is it best, of course, to start with yourself, with your children, with your community and with your citizens. We have thousands of pensioners who are barely on drugs, living on the poverty line, we have a lot of Czech children both in children's homes and living in different ghettos that we can't help, and we're marketing here dealing with some kids that maybe don't even exist, they don't know if they're two or nineteen years old, and the House is already arguing about it for four or five hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u139	Thank you. Another point of fact is that of Mr Marian Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u140	Thank you. I'd like to respond. We agree it was help. I think that's the point. I think that if the Communist government helped in its time after the earthquake in Armenia, it was help, and I was glad that the Czech or Czechoslovak government did it then, even if it was communist. To Mr. Klaus. It feels like an incredible relativization. We can relativize everything, we can say that the country is flat, as we also sometimes could hear from some advocates of this theory. The children Mrs. Michaela Šojdrová was visiting. He can supply you with both film and image material. It's not a slap in the water, it's a virtual reality. Please, nicely, I think that if we can, of course, always have to pay our security, our country, our rules, we all agree here, but if we can and we have families who are willing to take the burden on themselves, then I must say that I am the father of five children, and I therefore do not share this view of the world as you, Mr Klaus, through Mr President. I think if sir Nicholas Winton asked himself, "Can't the Čechoslovák defend themselves?" Do these kids happen to have parents? They're not very old those kids sir Nicholas Winton was saving. Where did we go, for God's sake? Here, 70 years ago, people were willing to risk their lives, to help a neighbor and someone who was needed from abroad, and we here at the time of the greatest prosperity, at a time of technology, when we were able to verify whether it was safe to accept those people in the Czech Republic, do we question the need to help, the principle? That's absolutely unbelievable to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u141	Thank you for keeping time. With Mrs Langšádlová's point of view. Mr Klaus and Mr Kopřiva will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u142	Thank you for the floor. I've only been very brief. If I were to continue what my colleague Jurečka said, I could still say, "Well, maybe not everyone was rich in Britain at the time. Maybe they also had some kids that they had in institutions somewhere. But they have really been able to help, just as Israel can, as the United Kingdom can today, as other countries can. And on top of that, Řecko, well, those kids didn't really care. There was simply a civil war going on. And I really think that what was done here, that Czechoslovakia, even then communist, accepted those children and gave them the right conditions for life, that it was the right step. Those kids didn't care as much as the Syrian kids did. They were really running away from the conflict of war, and it doesn't matter if they were to help children from Asad or from the Islamic State, they simply are children and in every culture society children are to be helped.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u143	Thank you for keeping time. With a factual remark, Mr Václav Klaus. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u144	That's how much debate degenerates. The fact that the Earth is flat, that's what your cleric political circles defended, rather than mine, when you set this example and burned for it. [[Entertainment and applause in the hall]] Second, comparing Nicholas Winton and these kids is just pathetic. It was their own parents who sent them to safety against the country that tried to kill them. This is a completely different situation, and you're playing the emotional game. Then take the children with you and Mrs. Šojdrová, and I'll give you a round of applause. But you force it on the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u145	Thank you. With a factual remark from Mr Kopřiva, Mr Benešík and Mr Výborný will be prepared with a factual remark. And I'm going to ask for peace in the hall so that we can finish this long debate in some dignified atmosphere. After all, we still have three applications with factual remarks, two applications for debate and two applications for a detailed debate, so we already have a lot more with factual ones. So, Mr. Ambassador, please, you have the floor. And I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the hall. If you have something important, please take care of it in the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond, through the President, to my colleague Klaus, with the fact that we have to start with each other. So maybe I'm contributing to various charitable purposes and projects. I should recommend - start with the family, I agree with that, so there is a non-profit organization in the Czech Republic called the Václav Klaus Institute, which regularly distributes various brochures printed on paper in quite a large number. We've already written as a Pirate Club that we don't want it because we like to save the woods. So I would recommend that the Václav Klaus Institute learn how to publish electronically and what will be saved for the paper, so the Václav Klaus Institute can send children to Syria or Jordan. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u147	Thank you for keeping time. [[There's still noise in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to continue discussing this point, we should reduce the noise in this room. With Mr Benešík's factual comment, Mr Výborný, Mr Radim Fiala and Mrs Jana Levová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u148	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. That's the point. It's about allowing the Syrian orphans to be accepted. Those families, as far as I know, have been found, and I think a number of them are from the Lies and Groves of KDU-ČSL. So it's about making this possible, and I don't think there's a lot of cases where we need to look for these families. I think Mr. Václav Klaus Jr. is a very intelligent man and has no need to embarrass himself here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u149	Thank you, Mr Marek Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u150	Thank you for the floor. By your means, Mr President, to Mr Klaus. I listened to him carefully, too... [[Screams from the hall towards the speaker.]] Through Mr President. Did I say something else? I listened well. And maybe here the Czech proverb is true, shoemaker, stick to your hooves, because I'd like to hear how and when the political party KDU-ČSL, or the Czechoslovak party people, or even the previous in any way, had something to do with someone who burned people for some of their opinions etc. But back to the point. It really seems very cynical to me to question the fact that these children actually exist, because the Greek Government can confirm this, which can be confirmed by our MEP Michaela Šojdrová, who visited them personally, and to say "maybe some, and who knows if they actually exist, if you have not made it up," that seems really inappropriate to me. And I want to say clearly, no one is sending them to the Czech Republic. Fortunately, the Czech Republic has enough population who are empathetic enough and are willing to take temporary care of these children. No one is forcing them, again through Mr President, to the Klausův family. I understand, it is a matter of complete volunteering, but it is indeed a fundamental matter of solidarity and compassion. I really wish we'd all realized that, and we weren't moving the debate somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u151	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Radim Fiala, with a factual remark, cancels this order, so Mrs Jana Levová, with a factual remark. Then, with priority rights, Minister Hamáček and the President are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u152	Thank you for the floor. I would like, through Mr President, to Mr Kopřiv. As far as forest conservation is concerned, isn't that your document that you could have sent electronically when you were saving those woods? [[shows a written document]] [[Let's hear it.]] Such populism, Mr. Ambassador. Furthermore, I would like to return to you once more, with regard to the threats and intimidation that you have put here. I don't know if you've ever experienced threats and intimidation on your own, because then you'd know very well that this isn't intimidation or threats. To Mrs Majerová -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u153	I would ask you to address the Members through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u154	Yes. Mrs Majerová said that this topic is a big and important subject and that we should not belittle it. I totally agree with that. On the other hand, where were the ODS MPs all afternoon? Their benches were empty. To Mrs. Němcová. [[President: Through me.]] Mrs Němcová diverted the debate to orphans, which was not the case. We've managed to divert the whole debate to a whole other place than we wanted it to be. And one last time to Mr Jurečka. [[President: Through the President.]] Through Mr President, sorry. We're supposed to be helping orphans in Syria. I say, aren't they in Ukraine? Why aren't we dealing with orphans in Ukraine? There's no war? Is that where they're rich? Why don't we talk about the orphans of Syria for five hours and think about where the orphans are in other countries? Why isn't there a Member who goes to Ukraine to see how these people live there, what kind of kids are there, what kind of conditions are there? Does anyone dare go to Ukraine from our MPs so they don't get a media massage where it went? That's what we should be talking about here. That's another thing. And the last one. I remember my mother, who always told me how it turned out when the nations moved and forced people to live in states where they didn't want to live. [[Time!]] It was Stalin.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u155	Thank you. I have three factual points - Mrs Richterová, Mr Marian Jurečka and Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. [[Noise in the hall.]] I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. If you really have something important, take it up in the lobby. Thank you and you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address my fellow Members from the SPD through the President, because it is personally very difficult for me here from your mouth to listen to something about threatening and intimidation when the SPD pages across the Republic share a completely false collage with my face, with a false text. And here you're going to talk about intimidation and threats? I want to stress that such practices are done by the person who manages the Facebook pages of your movement. It was shared throughout the Republic. So please be careful with this!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u157	Mrs Richterová, thank you for your time. I ask that we stick to this point and not run into personal attacks and attacks. Mr Marian Jurečka, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u158	Thank you. Mrs Levová mentioned me here, so I would like to tell her, through Mr President, that I was a Member of the Government twice in Ukraine, I was also in Kurdistan two years ago when the active fighting of the Islamic State was taking place. I visited refugee camps, had a chance to talk to those people on the spot. I was about 15 km from Mosul during the fighting, and I was in Afghanistan. I have a pretty real idea of how it's going down there. And the Czech Republic, if Ukraine has been mentioned here, the Czech Government is helping intensively in Ukraine through many projects. The important difference is that on that Ukrainian territory help can be done on its large part really safely, Charity Czech Republic and others really work there. The difference is that in Syria, our NGOs cannot safely implement this aid. That's the slightest difference there is. And, of course, I think that if there was any room to accept orphans from Ukraine, so that the hearts of Czech families are open to these orphans as well. But what's crucial is that when we're talking about this topic here, orphans who are in refugee camps today, originally from Syria, that without cooperation with a government that guarantees security, the process is not possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u159	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mr Zdeněk Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, over four hours, we are discussing almost five hours here, and the discussion has gone somewhere else than we would have liked. If we want to adopt a resolution today, let us try to get back to the subject, finish the debate and say... I could also speak, respond to perhaps Mrs Levová and say yes, at the invitation of Ukraine in the occupied or surrounded Mariupol, where I participated in the wars, where I and my colleague from the Polish Sejm demonstrated an effort to manipulate the elections, where the elections were canceled. Yes, I was behind my money not in Ukraine, as you go to Kiev, but I was in Donetsk and in those areas, where there is a real war. Here, during my interpelations, I gave the then foreign minister a White Paper on genocide committed by the Ukrainian army on its population. However, let us talk about what is the subject of this point, the global pact on migration, let us go back and finish the debate, so that we can vote or propose that we continue the negotiations after 19 o'clock to continue this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u161	Thank you. With priority rights, Minister Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u162	Thank you. Two things. First of all, this isn't a law, so we can act until 9:00 p.m. tonight. Secondly, I was invited by Mr Jurečka to give the numbers of illegal migration. In the first half of this year, the total number of illegal migrants 2 376, of which 704 Ukrajinec, 215 Moldavan, 158 Vietnamec and 88 Uzbek. Transit migration 124, migration across the external border of Schengen, which means airport, 158.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u163	Thank you, Minister. With priority rights, another Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u164	Thank you. I originally volunteered precisely to propose negotiations after 7:00 p.m. Then I realized that this was not a law and that we could act and vote after 19 o'clock. Allow me to say, after all, that I admire the fact that Mr Klaus took over the imaginary relay of Communist Member Dr. Ransdorf, give him the lord of heaven, which, some 15 years ago, maybe 20 years ago, shot me right in the face: "You burned us mistr Jan Hus." I was like, "Well, how come you guys? We burned it ourselves. He was a Catholic, he wasn't a communist." Mr. Klaus has now taken the communist relay, and I congratulate him on that. But now, for the last time, the question. Really, what kind of company do we want to be? We want to be a society that says, let's just take care of ourselves, what's beyond the borders of our country, we don't care about them, and let somebody else take care of them again? Or we want to be empathic, solidarity, and we want to feel responsible for the suffering that is beyond our borders, and especially when it is in the territory of the Schengen area, we will simply feel obliged to make a little, at least symbolic contribution to the assistance. I dare ask that question. We have option 1, we have option 2, and I would like to point out that the companies in history that have chosen variant 1 had no future ahead of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u165	Thank you and we will return to the debate where Mr Karel Krejza is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that we have returned to discussing what is the subject of this point, and this is a global pact on migration. It's all-embracing, but frankly, it's not much of a saying material. Plus, I have a favor to ask the Secretary of State, I don't know if it's said here yet. The pact was accepted at the UN in July and we studied it in English. I am quite well oriented in professional texts in English because they are logical. The materials that come from the EU in English are difficult for me to read because I think they are less logical. I'd like that translation, if necessary. It contains a lot of advice. Lots of lovely passwords. We have to work together. Free translation. To ensure the safety and dignity of communities and individuals in other countries. The document also says we have to protect our borders, it doesn't say how. He urges us to defend smuggling. He doesn't tell us how. I don't think it's in these details, of course. It's about looking at the document as a whole, what it actually tells us. He's telling us we're resigning. In the end, it is said that we must encourage migrants to become full members of society. We must emphasise their positive contribution to society, promote their social cohesion. I think it's a clear resignation, and I don't think there's anything we should approach. I think we should help, we should help those people who need people, but absolutely resign to the protection of our space, our civilization, our culture, that's wrong, and that's what I think this document is saying at the end of the day, and that's what's bothering me. Moreover, in some articles, it is directly contrary to what our government is promoting today, because it says that we should not divert intelligence from the countries in question. But we want something completely different from the mouth of our government officials. We want to provide qualified workers and skilled workers for our companies. And these are doctors, that's obvious intelligence, that would be engineers, that's also clear intelligence. If I look at this pact from some perspective, I will look at it not from that detail, so it bothers me to resign, to reject the protection of our civilization, to de facto approach the dictatorship of those dictators who clearly transport our 27 or 28 EU countries to the UN, the United States that have retreated from the pact. I can't accept it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u167	Thank you. Another one for the general debate is Mr Leo Luzar. Sorry, factual point, Mr. Václav Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u168	Again, I must respond to the previous speaker, Mr Kalousek, through you. In the Czech Republic, there is such a disorder that you don't comment on what you say, but you try to compare you to someone else. So you say-- you're like a communist deceased Mr. Ransdorf. And that's the argument. I'm totally refusing to do this. Unlike you, I didn't recite in a singles uniform on the security firm's asset, Mr. Kalousek. I demonstrated on November 17, 1989 at National Class. So please don't throw me any comparisons with the communists. It's undignified.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u169	Thank you. Mr Leo Luzar is enrolled in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u170	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the debate and the facts, I wonder where I have the other applications for our party so that I can hand them over to you. But I'm dead serious about the subject we're talking about right now. I listened carefully to this whole debate, and when I go back to the subject - I don't really know what the government's attitude towards the global pact will be. I would like us to agree today that this government should clarify the position and say to the Members. But not the Foreign Minister's opinion, the Home Secretary's opinion, but the Government's. Governments as a whole with the mandate with which they will go to the meeting to discuss it for the Czech Republic at this international level. So if we agree to accept such a conclusion from this long day, I will be very happy that the government will give us this view. As far as the specific issues under discussion are concerned, I am interested in one thing. This is where we talk, and it's been talking about orphans for a long time. I do not want to be inhuman, but I ask: Do we realise that we are talking about one of the historically long members of the European Union who has camps on its territory where children live in inhumane conditions? I am the Greek Ambassador, so here I am giving a protest note, as someone dares to discuss historic democracy, Greece, a member of the European Union, to talk about the inhuman life of children on their territory. That's what it sounded like. I confess that we may have crossed the line a little bit in this argument highlighting their position. On the other hand, I asked that the children, and they are talking about it, are Syrian children. Did anyone ask the Syrian Embassy or Syrian officials how they wanted to repatriate these children, and did they agree to have these nationalized Syrian children divorced and dismembered throughout Europe? Aren't there any parallels to the fact that he's manipulating the kids and sending them according to it -- if he's a nice kid, I'm gonna take him and leave the other unproven ones there? It also sounded here that we need those kids that are being discussed. But did anyone ask the country from which the children came, how does he intend to treat them? How would we like it if our children, whom we sent somewhere to avoid harm, began to discuss the countries there because they are in some bad conditions? We probably wouldn't look at it particularly well either. So I would like to bring the debate back to the title of the position of the Czech Government on the global pact on migration. And I will be very happy to conclude today's negotiations by adopting a resolution in the spirit that the government, when it knows the government's position and has it cleared up, will introduce us to it, and we would know what mandate our leaders will take to that meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u171	Thank you, honourable Member. With a factual remark, Mr Mikuláš Peksa is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u172	Dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I would like to thank you for this interesting, four-hour debate that has undoubtedly been fruitful and has enriched us all. I took the liberty of making a rough estimate of how much it would cost if two hundred people like us had a problem in a business for four hours. I estimated about half a million crowns. I think it is an interesting amount, and I firmly believe that the final resolution that we are negotiating today will indeed be worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u173	I thank the honourable Member for his time. Vice-President Vojtěch Filip is registered with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u174	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Madames and gentlemen, I will be very brief. Do you know what's most expensive about businesses, manufacturing, but also others? Find the right strategy. The search for strategy is long, financially challenging, but it is the most effective when found. So please don't say such nonsense that we just heard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u175	Thank you for keeping time. No one's logged in. I am ending the general debate. I'll ask for any final words. [[Rapporteur: Yes.]] Yes, the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u176	I'll just briefly sum up. In the debate, 20 people, 58 factual comments, some repeatedly, some even to the point. And I would like to say that I have three resolutions tabled so far. I expect more to be loaded. I'm gonna be one of those guys who's gonna be loading. Then I would probably ask for a short break for five, eight minutes tops, so that we can look at it, and a final vote. I'd mention just a shorty. Colleagues and colleagues, if you have the courage and strength to invest a few of your crowns on your parliamentary salary, you can say so yourself. I'll go with you to Syria, East Ukraine. So you can see with your own eyes what you're talking about mediated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u177	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening up a detailed debate in which I have signed up with the priority right of Vice-President Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to propose a resolution for the SPD movement, which will therefore be voted on by the Chamber of Deputies. The resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic considers the continuation of the Czech Republic in the UN Global Pact to be a safe, controlled and legal migration situation contrary to the fundamental interests of the Czech Republic and the Czech nation. In view of this, we demand the withdrawal of the Czech Republic from negotiations on this global pact following the model of Hungary and the USA. We ask the Government of the Czech Republic to take appropriate steps in relation to this pact in accordance with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u179	Thank you. Mrs Langšádlová is also entered into a detailed debate. And Mr. Marek the Výborný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u180	Thank you for the floor. As I have announced, I propose a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to accept at least 50 children on our territory without parents from refugee camps in Greece of its choice and to provide sufficient care for them." [[Laughter from the left and center of the hall.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u181	Thank you. I would ask that we approach individual proposals with respect so that we move a little further in time. Mr Marek Výborný for a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u182	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. For the KDU-ČSL, I propose the following resolution: 'We call on the Government of the Czech Republic to respect the Geneva Convention with regard to the reception of refugees'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u183	Thank you. Mr. Vojtěch Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u184	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to sign up here for the proposal that was made by my colleague Jan Skopeček in the general debate, and this motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government of the Czech Republic withdraw from the Global Pact on Migration if it contains that migration will become law and that existing illegal migration will be legalised artificially."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u185	Thank you. Mr Kobza is reporting from the position. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u186	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to sign up for the draft resolution, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to take immediate action to withdraw the Czech Republic from the New York Declaration on Migration." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u187	Thank you. Furthermore, no one is entered in the detailed debate. This is Mr. Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u188	Thank you. My motion for a resolution has two points: "The Chamber of Deputies I. takes note of the information of the Minister of the Interior and of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Hamáček on the position of the Czech Republic on the Global Pact on Safe, Controlled and Legal Migration and on the Global Pact on Refugees; II. asks the government to do 15. 11. 2018 submitted to the Chamber of Deputies the Government's position with which the representative of the Czech Republic will participate in negotiations on the adoption of a global pact on safe, managed and legal migration and a global pact on refugees in Marrakech on 10 and 11 December 2018.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u189	Thank you. Mr Kopřiva is reporting from the position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to propose a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies I. obliges the government to seek material solutions for safe and controlled solutions to global migration; II. Recalls the need for an effective solution to illegal migration, in particular the issue of the return of refugees to the country of origin, the fight against smugglers and the problems leading to illegal migration; III. Emphasises the need to protect women's rights in particular, to prevent sexual violence and to end children's childhood; IV. in this context, the Chamber of Deputies condemns the Prime Minister's media statements on the rejection of orphaned children from refugee camps in Jordan." Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u191	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u192	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask before we vote, because the resolution is quite a number, so that we can get it printed in at least one copy for one parliamentary club. I think it's technically possible for someone to write it down and print it out during the break. There's a lot of them, there's gonna be a vote on points, and I think we should have that text in front of us. Thank you for agreeing to this formal matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u193	Thank you. The rapporteur. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, but I have to amend that second point in agreement with the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, because he gave me information that the global pact on refugees will already be discussed now, on 25 September, at the 73rd UN meeting in New York, so that Marrakesh relates only to migration. So I'm adjusting the second point as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the government to do 15. 11. 2018 submitted to the Chamber of Deputies the Government's position with which the representative of the Czech Republic will attend the meeting on the adoption of the Global Pact on Safe, Controlled and Legal Migration on 10 and 11 December 2018 in Marrakech.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u195	Thank you. I don't see anyone logged in. I'm ending the debate in detail. I'll ask for any final words. There was a proposal for a break, I'd like to ask that the proposal be dropped.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Given what ODS President Zbyněk Stanjura has asked for, I will request a break within 19 hours, we will not rewrite, we will probably copy to meet with the club representatives - within 19 hours of the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u197	Mr. President of the Chamber of Deputies Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u198	I'm not gonna make you happy, but on behalf of the employees who are preparing it and need some time to do it, it would be ideal to have 30 minutes if you want it printed and all right. I'd give the counterproposal 30 minutes. I think it should have some sort of staff culture. I suggest 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u199	With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u200	I was going to say that after we have received the proposals in paper form, we will ask for a recess for a meeting of the MP's club of probably 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u201	After consulting, I would interrupt it by 7:45 p.m. with the fact that when you get your draft resolutions printed, you're taking a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u202	Dear colleagues, it's 7:45 p.m., so the 19th meeting will continue. By the time we get to the vote, I have a lot of tickets here. So, please, let's pay attention to them. Mr Sklenák apologizes from 19.30 for reasons of work, Mr Bláha apologises from 19.45 until the end of the negotiations for reasons of work, Mr Vymazal apologises from 18.50 to the end of the day, Ms Langšádlová apologises from 19.45 to midnight for reasons of work, Mrs Válková apologises between 19.00 and midnight for reasons of work, and Mr Řehounek apologises from 19.00 to the end of the day for reasons of work. If I have the right information, there has been a detailed debate, which has been concluded and the final words have also been... Hasn't it sounded yet? There's no interest in them, if any. So I will ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the proposals and procedures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we have one final point on this point, namely the vote on individual proposals. We have drawn up the proposals in the motion for a resolution, namely on the basis of how the proposals were read by individual Members, which means gradually how they were here. No one's preferred who was logged in, so it's the order. I propose that we always vote with the Member, according to which he has proposed, on the whole of his motion for a resolution. If anyone else has a suggestion, then... Yes, I see...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u204	Thank you. So it is a proposal that we will vote in the order that the proposals have been tabled on the whole, and President Michálek is reporting with another proposal. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u205	I propose that we each vote separately on the points for Mr Kopřiva. It's four points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u206	Thank you for the suggestion. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u207	Yes, so if no one else has another proposal, then we will vote if I add it up quickly, a total of ten times.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u208	Thank you. There's an application for check-out, so I'm checking you out. Please sign up with your cards. I'll wait for our numbers to settle. I'd like to ask if we need to vote on the procedure, or if everyone's okay with doing the procedure as it was loaded. Well, it looks like we can just... no one has anything against the procedure. We may as well move on to the vote on resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u209	Okay. So Mr Tomio Okamura's first proposal - I will always read the motion for a resolution. "The Chamber of Deputies considers the continuation of the Czech Republic in the UN Global Pact on Safe, Controlled and Legal Migration to be a condition contrary to the fundamental interests of the Czech Republic and the Czech nation. In view of this, we demand the withdrawal of the Czech Republic from negotiations on this global pact following the model of Hungary and the United States of America. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to take appropriate action in relation to this pact in accordance with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u210	Thank you. Initiating vote 139. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 139, 144 Members and Members of Parliament for 17, against 93 were enrolled. The motion was not accepted. Now please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u211	The second proposal is Mrs Langšádlová's proposal. "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to accept at least 50 children without parents from refugee camps in Greece of its choice and to provide sufficient care for them."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u212	I'm asking for peace in the House. I think we all heard the motion for a resolution. And I'm opening the 140 vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 140 vote, 133 Members and Members were enrolled for 31, against 52. The motion was not accepted. Please, let's continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u213	The third proposal, Mr Excellent. "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to observe the Geneva Convention with regard to the reception of refugees."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u214	Thank you. I think it's obvious. Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. 147 Members and Members of Parliament for 48 against 7 were voted in the 141 vote. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u215	Another proposal is the proposal from Mr Skopeček, who was read by Mr Munzar. The text: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government withdraw from the Global Pact on Migration if it contains that migration will become a law and that existing illegal migration will be artificially legalised."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u216	Thank you. Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 142, 148 Members and Members were enrolled for 48, against 7. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u217	Mr Kobza's proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to take immediate action to withdraw the Czech Republic from the New York Declaration on Migration."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u218	Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 143, 148 Members and Members were enrolled, for 20, against 58. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u219	Ondráček's proposal: "First, the Chamber of Deputies takes note of the information of the Minister of Interior and of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Hamáček on the position of the Czech Republic on the global pact for safe, managed and legal migration and on the global pact for refugees. Two. The Chamber of Deputies asks the government to do 15. 11. 2018 submitted to the Chamber of Deputies the Government's position with which the representative of the Czech Republic will attend the meeting on the adoption of the Global Pact on Safe, Controlled and Legal Migration on 10 and 11 December 2018 in Marrakech.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u220	Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 144 148 Members and Members were enrolled, for 125, against 19. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u221	Mr Kopřiva's proposal: 'The Chamber of Deputies requires the Government to seek material solutions for a secure and controlled solution to global migration'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u222	Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 145, 148 Members and Members were enrolled, for 33, against 34. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u223	Another proposal by Mr Kopřiva: 'The Chamber of Deputies recalls the need for an effective solution to illegal migration, in particular the issue of returning refugees to the country of origin, the fight against smugglers and the problems leading to illegal migration'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u224	Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 146 vote, 148 Members and Members were registered, for 80, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u225	A proposal from Mr Kopřiva: "The Chamber of Deputies stresses the need to protect women's rights in particular, to prevent sexual violence and to end children's detachment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u226	Thank you. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Quiet in the hall, please. In the 147 vote, 149 Members and Members were enrolled, for 35, against 3. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u227	And the last proposal from Mr Kopřiva: 'The Chamber of Deputies condemns, in this context, the Prime Minister's media statements regarding the rejection of orphaned children from refugee camps in Jordan.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u228	Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 148, 145 Members and Members were enrolled, for 47, against 58. The motion was not accepted. Is that what we used up on my proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u229	Yes, we have exhausted the proposals, and if some of your colleagues are wondering about Jordan, yes, Jordan has been loaded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-006-170.u230	Thank you. We've exhausted this point, so I'm ending it. Since it is after 19 o'clock and it has been agreed that the meeting will not continue, I am interrupting the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I remind you that we will continue tomorrow, that is, on Thursday, at ten o'clock, by discussing paragraph 168, the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. I would like to inform you that applications for oral interventions can be filed here from 9 p.m., and I would like to inform you that the House's proceedings will continue in substance on draft laws as soon as the written submissions have been completed. Thank you.
