ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 201/2012 Sb., on air protection, as amended /house print 13/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, Prime Minister Richard Brabec will state the draft law. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief, I will leave this above all for discussion. Allow me only briefly, because I made a comprehensive presentation of the amendment during the first reading. I just want to remind you that the amendment concerns, in particular, the obligation to transpose into the Czech legal system certain parts of the directive of the Council of the European Union laying down the methods of calculation and reporting requirements under the Directive concerning the quality of petrol and diesel fuels. The second partly transposed European regulation is also Directive 98/70/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. We are already late for the transposition period here, and of course I would be very happy if we could finish this meeting as soon as possible. In addition, as part of the committees, committee discussions, some new proposals have been made concerning combustion in local boilers, including possible exemptions for combustion in large combustion plants, and a number of others. In short, I would just like to say that the Ministry of the Environment has agreed with a large majority of these proposals in the Committees. In one case we expressed a neutral position, in one case then a disagreement. But I would like to say that I welcome the possibility of discussing these proposals in committees, not just in committee, but in committees, and I think it was very interesting for everyone involved. According to my information, there are other amendments, so I'm sure there will still be a chance to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Economic Committee and the Agricultural Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Presses 13/1 to 6. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment take the floor, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, to inform us of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, honourable Government, honourable Members. I would like to inform you here of the news report on the Government Bill amending Act No. 201/2012 Coll., on Air Protection, as amended. The first reading took place already in January this year at the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in addition to the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee, this proposal was also ordered to discuss committees on agriculture and economic matters. I would like to introduce you to the Committee on the Environment on how the hearing took place. We discussed it in two steps. First, at the first meeting of the committee, we suspended the hearing and returned to it on 21 March, when 11 amendments were brought to the committee concerning this amendment. The Committee supported the overwhelming majority of the amendments that have been delivered to the Committee and are contained in its resolution. This is one amendment by my colleague Zahradník - he specifically proposes that the obligation to use heat from the thermal energy supply system for heating should not apply to new constructions of family houses. Furthermore, the Committee supported Mr Schiller's three amendments, which concern, in particular, the incorporation of biofuels into fuel and also specifying the arrangements for grouping bodies in order to fulfil the emission saving obligation jointly. The amendments by Mrs Fialová, together with five, concern the issue of boiler control, the transposition of the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which is under the number 2016/2284 on the adjustment of the position of municipalities and regions in the implementation of the air quality improvement programme. Another concerns an increase in the CO emission limit for radiant combustion stationary sources and the possibility for municipalities to ban the combustion of not only brown coal but also other types of solid fuels. This is very briefly about the amendments that we adopted on the committee and which you were able to get to know in press no. The 13/6 that was delivered to you. I assume that, of course, some of the petitioners here are already in the debate, that they will present their amendments and justify them, but the resolution we adopted at the committee at the meeting on 14 March is: After the justification of the Deputy Minister of the Environment, Mrs Ing. Peštová, my report, and after the debate, the Committee on the Environment recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the proposal as amended by the amendments adopted. It shall instruct the Chair of the Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the House. She empowers me, as rapporteur, to report to you, which I am doing. It also empowers me, in cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I would ask that Mr Jan Bauer and the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Josef Kott, take the floor gradually. Or at least one. Mr Bauer, Mr Kott, as appropriate, rapporteurs for this press. [[They're not present in the hall.]] I would ask if the chairmen of the committees concerned are present in the hall, if they would not authorise someone for second reading to present a news report... [[The President is waiting.]] I don't even have any excuses to read to you here on my own time... If there's anything anyone wants to tell us with priority rights right now, they might as well. [[Resurrection and laughter in the hall. There's a Stanjure MP coming up from the bench.]] You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u6	In order not to know, Mr President, that I am getting out too often and stalling. But speaking of discussing this bill, there is such a popular practice, the Minister uses it as an experienced minister. I don't know if it's circumvention of the legislative process, or how I'm supposed to understand that the Ministry is going to send a bill to the legislative process, it's going to be the Government's Legislative Council, it's going to come to the House, and then, between first and second reading, the Ministry comes up with an improvement on the government's proposal and finds a friendly Member, preferably on its own side, who so-called. Sets out its amendments. So I would ask the Minister to identify among those mentioned by the rapporteur, who are from the workshop of his ministry, to tell us if we have so much time, why they didn't make it originally, whether it was a new idea, or if someone threw it away in the original legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u7	Thank you. The Minister wants to respond. Excellent. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u8	It's awkward with the newsletters, really. [[He's laughing.]] In combination with President Stanjura. That's a scary combination. But you're right that sometimes that happens. It's a mischief I'm trying to limit. However, in this case it has been a matter - but I think that for the benefit of the matter, Mr President through Mr President - for example, in terms of extending the frequency of boiler controls from two to three years, there are other issues. And it really is a little bit about the fact that, of course, they're in the meantime, which is months, and I'm sorry that we haven't been able to complete the law in the last term. And it is certainly not that it might fall out of any of the amendments, virtually. In the House, we'll return it in this tricky way again. It's not like that. These are really things in this case that either came out of some other legal norms in the meantime, or maybe really things, when we talk about what the Ministry suggested, which are the refinement of the original proposal, and that is for example. just the extension of the frequency of inspections of boilers, or something that arose in agreement, e.g. a response to another amendment. But I'm not saying it's not happening. It's happening, and it's really given that the negotiation process is quite long and then there are things that, of course, going back into that circle means losing. And yes, sometimes that's how the Ministry uses it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u9	Thank you, Minister. Now it is finally the rapporteur's turn to wait for priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me present the resolution of the Economic Committee of 14 March 2018 to our 7th meeting. "The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after hearing the interpretation of Deputy Minister of the Environment, Mr.Vladimír Mana, Jan Bauer's intelligence report, and after a general and detailed debate, first recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve Parliament's press number 13, as amended by the Government Bill. Secondly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department, to make legislative technical amendments in the draft law which do not affect the substance of the proposed law. Thirdly, it instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present this report on the results of the discussions at Parliament's Chamber of Deputies meeting. Finally, fourthly, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u11	Thank you, rapporteur. And we have a report to report to the agricultural committee. At this point, I do not see Mr. Kott in the hall. I will ask if there is a member of the Committee on Agriculture who would inform us of the report so that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we can proceed to the discussion of this point. We're looking for a volunteer from the farm committee. Otherwise, I'd really have to cancel the meeting. My colleague Vrecionová is reporting more vehemently. Order 13/4. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u12	Hello, have a good afternoon. Let me read the resolution of the Agricultural Committee of 14 March on this Government proposal. Order: I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies a Government proposal amending Act 201/2012 Coll. on Air Protection, as amended, to approve these amendments as amended. In Article I (14), paragraph 20b is replaced by the following: the word "fulfil' is replaced by the word "fulfil' and the word "fulfil' at the end of the text. 1 the words "up to 1 per cent of the baseline value of greenhouse gas emissions for fossil fuels' shall be added; II. empowers the rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office, to make the necessary legislative technical adaptations; III. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u13	Thank you, too. Finally, we come to open a general debate that is of great interest. There are five registered for the moment. Mrs Dana Balcarová, who I hereby give the floor, is the first to be heard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech I would like to introduce you to the way the amendments were, the two that I tabled for the pirate party to the amendment to the Act on Air Protection were discussed in the Economic Committee because I consider this to be very unusual and also undesirable. The rapporteur, Bauer, made my amendment to the Economic Committee, stating that it is recorded in the system and that the members of the Committee have the opportunity to get to know it, but that was not true and some Members did not have access to the amendment because it simply was not in the system. Sound recording makes it easy to verify. So that's the first non-standard thing. The second non-standard thing that bothers me very much that I have not been invited to do this, because I have tabled the two amendments, I am their co-author, and so I would expect that if someone discusses these amendments to the committee that he will invite me to explain and answer any questions that might be asked by fellow Members, this time for example in the Economic Committee. So that's the second complaint. The third is that the Economic Committee immediately adopted a resolution, where, in my opinion, I do not know, on what basis, it succeeded, or stated that if the amendment was approved, it would have negative impacts on energy and heat, and it would lead to an increase in energy and heat for end-users. I do not understand how such a conclusion could be made by the Economic Committee when neither the Ministry of the Environment nor the Ministry of Industry at the moment know the implications of this amendment, which would prohibit the granting of exemptions for large sources of pollution, namely large power plants from European air pollution limits, because at the moment it is not clear what impact it would have on both the economy of coal power plants and the operation. So it is interesting that the economic committee dares to state these facts. That was the third thing. The fourth thing is that immediately Mr Bauer went to the Committee on the Environment to inform us of this, where he was introduced as Vice-President of the Economic Committee, and he did not turn against it, thereby misleading us. Another thing that he actually misled the members of the Committee on the Environment is that, at my direct repeated question, whether they discussed all the amendments on the Economic Committee, he said that they did, but according to the sound record, it is clear that they were only discussing the amendments that I tabled for the pirate party, which seems to me to be a very uneven approach. So it was the fifth thing. So there's quite a lot of reservations, and I'd like it if things like that don't happen again, because I think they're illegal and unsports. That is one thing I wanted to say here in the general debate. The second thing is, I wouldn't... I have tabled two amendments. The first was about local heating sites, when we gave the amendment the opportunity to ban municipalities from burning low-quality brown coal in local heating sites, boilers and stoves. Because, with a similar impact, the amendment is made by Mrs Fialová, so I am retreating from my amendment, although I would like to say that the amendment by Mrs Fialová seems very weak to me, because she says that the combustion of coal in boilers of the fifth and fourth classes should be prohibited, which are the dirtiest boilers, and still, according to the law in 2022, the combustion in these boilers will be prohibited, so I think that the amendment will not have a very big impact, but since the environmental committee is quite forcefully declaring its amendments with the support of the Ministry, I think that my amendment or the pirate amendment has a very little chance. This was an expression on one of the amendments. Then I would like to introduce you, my fellow Members, to my new amendment, which I will read later in a detailed debate. It concerns those exemptions for pollution limits for large polluters. Since the pirát are an opposition constructive party, we have heard comments or objections from both the Ministry of the Environment and large industrial players, and in order to create time to prepare those large power plants for the limits, we are extending the period until those limits can be granted for four years, i.e. Until 2025. I hope that this amendment will have more support, because it responds, as I said, to complaints both from the Ministry of the Environment and from some Members and also from industrial lobby reservations. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u15	Thank you, Madame. Your contribution raised two factual points. First, Mr Adamec, then Mr Pražák - and three, Mr Bauer and Mr Munzar. So step by step, prosit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u16	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues. I overheard the crying over the spilled milk on the Economic Committee. I think that the negotiations of the Economic Committee are public. I understand that sometimes there is a cross-compliance, but clearly the rapporteur knew your amendments when he presented them to us. And the preliminary opinion of most members of the economic committee on this bill was that we are only able to accept directives, the application of the directive of the European Union and nothing more, because we knew that it would open Pandořin's box with such ideas that... I thought the Greens weren't here in the House, and I can see that they are. And that's just the way it is. I will only talk about this in my contribution, but I would like you to comment on the negotiations of your own committees, my colleague, through Mr President. You weren't there, and listening to sound recording doesn't mean you know how it went down there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u17	I thank you for keeping time and addressing me through this. Another factual point, Mr Pražák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u18	Good afternoon. I'm just two sentences to the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, just to set the record straight. We've got the mayors, we've got the captains, we've got the mayors. And it was declared some kind of grant title - a pot grant. Citizens joined in, bought new boilers, of course, with support, and you wanted to ban them and tell them that a new coal boiler that meets the new limits was wrong and that the investment they made was wrong. That was it. This isn't about whether the pirát filed it or whether someone else filed the amendment, but you just wanted to tell them that what you did for the environment, you did wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u19	Thank you. Another, with a factual remark, by Mr Bauer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Balcarová, through Mr President, I have looked at you and I have seen laughter on my face, so I hope that some of the things that you have said here and which may have been directed at me have not been personal. Believe me, I've spent my whole life sports, even doing performance sports at the moment, and if there's anything sacred to me, it's fair play. And I wish all things would take place in the spirit of fair play on this floor of the Chamber of Deputies, however I do not think so. I think that my activity, which is taking place on the floor of the Economic Committee, was completely legitimate. We can agree on many things. Do not be angry with me, but I do not agree with your amendments and I am very pleased that the Committee on the Environment shared these concerns, that your proposals can have a very unfortunate, even fatal impact in the final increase in energy for Czech households. I don't even like proposals to strengthen the mayor's powers in banning brown coal burning. For this reason, I considered it appropriate for this material to be presented on the premises of the Economic Committee, which also freely commented on this. And please do not take the right of the Economic Committee to comment on this. I must say that I am very interested - I do not know whether it is knowledge or ignorance of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, but I feel that even at the very meeting of the Committee on the Environment, you did not know where to go with me, that you did not read that even a non-member of a particular committee could speak there. I'm very glad I finally got the space because it's my privileged right. And don't be mad at me, I didn't introduce myself, I didn't even talk about having some functions, like I had a lot in the life of those functions. And it certainly didn't come from my mouth that I was Vice-President of the Economic Committee. I am a member of the Economic Committee and Vice-President of the Social Committee. But if I'm wielding a function higher than I actually have, it certainly didn't come from my mouth, and for that I'm sorry, and I'm very sorry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u21	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Munzar, will be prepared by Mrs Balcarová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Balcarová, through Mr President, I wanted to come forward here earlier on these exceptions. You modified the proposal. But I was so surprised by what you got off with here. You actually said two things. We are so transparent that we are surprised that others know our proposals when you present them, for example. at a press conference, etc. That's one thing. The second thing you said yourself here. You are presenting a fatal proposal, which is a hazard for Czech energy, and you do not know the impact of this proposal as a petitioner. We, as an economic committee, have discussed the possibilities and follow up on the whole situation in Brussels, how the meeting on the infoboxes for large combustion plants, where new limits were adopted in October last year, so we are following these things, i.e. Please do not take our right to comment on this by worrying about Czech energy, about the standard of living of our citizens, about the fact that this proposal would lead to an increase in heat and possibly increase the price of energy. And really there is a fatal question: If your amendment went through, where will the Czech Republic, Czech industry and Czech households get energy? Because if we don't have a nuclear source built, and it won't be for many years, we can't rely on the stability of supply from alternative sources of energy, then the only possible source is to build gas power plants. And do you really want to tie us to Russia's addiction? Reduce the self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic to energy and reduce security? Your proposal really surprises me, but I'm even more surprised by your opening act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u23	Thank you. With Mrs Balcarová's point of view. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u24	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I'd react to my previous speaker first. Maybe I was on the Energy Sub-Committee too - he's not listening to me right now, I'm so sorry, because I'm telling him... [[Ambassador Munzar is listening.]] Yeah, there, sorry, I didn't see it. Okay. [[With a smile.]] ... That on your subcommittee, I was given the opportunity to comment -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u25	I beg you, since you really are addressing colleagues, it is customary for me to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u26	Sorry, Mr President. So just like that. But here's where I heard some complaint about the greens. I guess I forgot to say what the main reason we were making those amendments was. Because just for the pirate side, air quality is really a priority. And the main priority is the health of the population, which is directly linked to air quality. So that was the main goal of why we did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u27	Thank you, too. Your point of fact raised a factual comment by Mr Munzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u28	Madam President, I think that the priority of the environment is of interest to all of us, but we must say at all costs. [[What's that?]] I have two children, too, and I want them to breathe clean air. But if we are talking about the fact that there was some national transitional plan for the operator of these large installations to adapt their technologies to the new limits of the Industrial Emissions Directive, and last year something new was adopted in Brussels through the resistance of the Czech Republic, and even the resistance of Germany, so we need to be able to remain energy-sufficient, that is indeed an attack on our standard of living and on our children's standard of living. Consider that in a few years, if your proposal actually went through, we could be at the limit of energy poverty, and then even those computers on social networks wouldn't really work without energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u29	Thank you. So, at this point in time, one final point in fact. And for the proper debate, Mrs Richterová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u30	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring the debate back to the real air that is involved. There's a lot of doctors here, there's a lot of parents here, and we're all breathing the same air. I would like to comment - in the general debate I signed before Mrs Eva Fialová - on the amendment which has just been discussed in the Committee on the Environment and which concerns, say, the possibility of entering the public in a more fundamental way and expressing how in our cities, where pollution is often higher than the legal limits, this is reduced. What I'd like to say for starters. We have some measurements. We know where the air is polluted more than what sets our legal limits, and we have a tool for that. The Ministry of the Environment must issue a programme for improving air quality in the agglomeration that concerns exceeding the limits. And the aim of these programs is - we can imagine, it's quite simple - to lower this pollution to a legal level. That's what the legal standards are for. What's going on? In order to achieve this reduction as soon as possible and to take some effective measures. Let me remind you of the name - programs for improving air quality. And I'm saying this because whatever it's called, it's not just paperwork. It's supposed to be something that's really enforceable and improves the air. [[15.20 hours]] It is now proposed in the amendment that these documents, those programmes for improving air quality, should become a state of today where they are measures of a general nature to change this and become documents which will only be approved by the Ministry of the Environment and published in its Journal, which would result in no judicial review in administrative courts. It's a very important point. I have a deep personal experience with this. I live in Vršovice, Prague, which is part of Prague, which is very affected by pollution. The air here is just dirty. And I'm also a municipal representative there. Since I live there, I actively work there, so I joined in spring 2016 and I was there when I - both personally and as a club - reminded the recently developed air quality improvement programme for Prague. Summary: You may know the feeling of helplessness when you make your comment, but the reminder is that it was settled, but it's not really worked out, it's just so squeaky that you brought it up, and they said it wouldn't work. And since the Prague programme did not contain effective measures with concrete steps for implementation, it was very vague and inspecific, so I decided to bring an action with the help of the legal organization. It was my only lawsuit in my life. I'm saying this here because it seemed important enough to me, air quality in our city, to make it worth the trial review. That was June 2016. At the beginning of February this year, or after more than a year and a half, the Municipal Court in Prague decided that, as the air quality improvement programme for Prague was issued by the Ministry of the Environment, it is true that it does not fulfil its statutory objective, and that is why it was largely abolished by the court and now it has to be drawn up again. What was that about? The court leaned to the need for stronger, clearer protection of the health of the inhabitants of Prague against pollution. Similarly, the court decided in December 2017 in Ostrava. The point now is that even in accordance with this judicial opinion, those air quality improvement programmes should actually contain specific elements of the type of quantification of the benefits of those measures to improve the air condition. It must be clear what priorities are, where, at limited time, limited means of exerting force. Similarly, there should be an obvious control mechanism for the ongoing achievement of the objectives. Without it, it's toothless again. What am I talking about? It's common to make paper like this. Unfortunately, such paper was also a document called programs for improving air quality for Prague, for Ostrava. Because the level of bad quality was really high, so I personally and many others dealt with it and got it to the courthouse. He said he was right about us. And now the amendment, and that's why I'm standing here, why I'm talking about it, this possibility should be abolished. It would be possible to stop reviewing matters as important as this. And, yes, it is suggested that, in fact, the timetable for implementing the measures must be part of the air quality improvement programme. But unfortunately, that's not enough. In addition to time plans, we also need the priorities, effective control mechanisms. And I think we need to leave the possibility of public control and the possibility of judicial review in the most extreme cases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u31	Thank you. Next for the debate is Mr Ivan Adamec. No, sorry. Mr. Jan Zahradník. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to deny you the order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor with a regular contribution due to the second reading of the law, in order to present and justify the amendments that I am about to put forward to this bill. However, when I heard the previous performance, I must say that what my colleague presented is quite different from what I am accustomed to expect from the law, i.e. rather than creating complications to facilitate the running of public affairs. I volunteered to present two proposals. In my opinion, the first concerns the technical matter and falls within the definition part of the law, namely Section 2, where we have two letters. Point (r) and point (s). While point (r) defines what is motor vehicle for transport purposes and says that it is a mass intended for the propulsion of road vehicles, special vehicles, railway vehicles or inland waterway vessels, including recreational craft, so the letter (s) that defines what electricity is for transport purposes, there is only this electricity defined as electricity used for the propulsion of road vehicles. I think this nomenclature should be unified here and we should admit that electricity can be used not only as a drive for road vehicles, but also for railway vehicles, or vessels, including recreational craft. Therefore, I propose that the words "special vehicles, railway vehicles or inland waterway vessels, including recreational craft" should be added to point (s) defining electricity for transport purposes. I don't know if there's any particular reason why the definition of electricity has been made this way, but I'm sure the Ministry will consider my proposal and, of course, will have room to comment on it in a recommending or non-advising manner. My second proposal is already a proposal relating to the substance of the law and specifically concerns a relatively sensitive matter relating to § 17 para. 2. For those who have not been here in this House in the last parliamentary term, I would remind you that this is a paragraph after which the controlling authority has been able to enter the household after prior notice of any iniquities concerning the combustion of illegal fuel and the source of its surroundings to control. In my opinion, this violates home freedom, the inviolability of dwellings, although I acknowledge that this sacred constitutional law, which we have enforced here in the past period, and thus, with the fact that we have gone to the Constitutional Court, can be interpreted differently. I understand that there are people who repeatedly poison their neighbors by either not being able to drown in their boilers or burning in them things that the law does not allow, or that when they burn, smoke from the chimney poisons the ambient air. [[15.30 hours]] Yet I think that bringing into this law a violation of house freedom, the inviolability of dwellings, is wrong. I've considered proposing to rescind that paragraph, but I've decided to take a different path. I propose that the possibility of entering a citizen's home, albeit a citizen, who is suspected on the basis of some subjective impression that in his stove, he burns illegal substances in his boiler, so that this possibility is limited to some extent, so I propose an amendment to Section 17 (2) of the Act. 2, in the sense that the opening process should be the same, that is, if someone is doing so and is poisoning the surrounding area with smoke, that the authority of the municipality or the municipality responsible for the extended application of the procedure should be alerted to the fact that it can be checked. My proposal is already different in the way in which the control is carried out. I think that the objectives of control, that means obtaining evidence that the person really burns illegal fuel, can be achieved by first alerting the control, being told "the check will take place on that day, at that hour and at the same time" and at the same time accompanied by a request which is also part of my proposal for the inspection to be carried out with the consent of the owner of the building - the house or apartment. Objections that might be heard here and maybe eventually the effect of surprises caught by the perpetrator in his illegal activity will be somewhat minimal or will not occur, so here I think that even the plaintiffs of the proposal weren't in their original state to do some ambush here. Deputy Minister Peštová has repeatedly said that this is more of a educational effect of the paragraph, and the Minister may confirm that the educational effect here is that mayors register that the number of illicit drives, pollutants, are declining here. However, I think that this adjustment, which I would like to read here - the beginning would be the same. Therefore, if someone violates their obligations, it will be warned that if he continues to do so, he will be able to carry out an inspection, and then my proposal here is different in that, if there is a repeated reasonable suspicion that the operator continues to violate one of the obligations under paragraph 2. 1 is authorised by the controller after prior written notification to the owner or user of the premises in which the combustion stationary source is operated and with his consent to enter the combustion source, its accessories and the fuels used to check compliance with the obligations. And another thing, and that is another adaptation of § 23 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (j) which refers to offences which may be committed by a natural person, so here is defined a violation consisting of the fact that the owner or user of the premises in which the combustion stationary source is operated - that is the boiler - contrary to § 17 para. 2, shall not, after prior written notification, consent be given to the controller to enter the premises where the boiler is operated, etc., to the combustion stationary equipment, accessories and fuels used to check compliance with obligations. So refusing entry after prior notice will be the merit of the offence itself. Here I must say, this is not a matter that is new in our legal order. It's not a new legal principle. We know a similar principle in the case of the Road Traffic Act, which solves in a similar way when someone is suspected of using any illicit narcotics, alcohol or drugs, the suspicion arose on the basis of, for example, a breath test and is given a blood test, which includes blood collection, so also no one in quotation marks will dump the person on the ground and violently take away his blood, but he is asked to take blood. If he refuses to do this, he's gonna commit a misdemeanor. So the legal logic here, in my opinion, is similar. Certainly while I am here insisting on the Prime Minister's proposal, which consists in the fact that the penalty for offenses can be measured in the range of up to CZK 50,000, i.e. the supervisory authority or the delegated authority can, for example, waive the fine in the first offenses, it can measure it in the amount of CZK 1000, CZK 5,000, and only if the principle is repeatedly violated can it go to the maximum limit, so in the case of the traffic offence, in the road traffic law, it is far more draconian. There is a serious offence for which seven points are given, for which a fine of 25-50 thousand crowns can be charged, or a ban on activities for one to two years. I understand that life is at risk on the roads, and therefore the public interest in not driving drunk people on the roads is somehow stronger than the right to personal integrity associated with refusing blood collection than here, where we disturb people's health again by smoking from the chimney. The Ministry has never been able to search for, say, or find in all this time, but to look for ways to prove that someone is burning illegal substances, he could do something other than break into that house by checking. So I guess we're gonna stay on that check for now, but, as I'm saying, my proposal is for this check to take place after the prior written notice and with the consent of the owner of the house. So I have presented two proposals here, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u33	Good afternoon. Thank you. Before I say another word, I will read the apology of the Minister of Health, from 15.45 to 17.15 on account of urgent work matters. And please Mr Adamec, Mr Elfmark will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u34	Mr President, Minister, colleagues, I said that we only wanted to vote in favour of the original version, that this will, of course, arouse a lot of activity when it comes to this subject, but nevertheless let me return to some of the proposed amendments, whether they have passed or not. I was particularly interested in the exception to the limits that were set, I feel, last October, for large resources. No wonder I'm a member of the Economic Committee to defend the interests of our economy, our energy. And maybe we should say a few things here that will disprove myths about not wanting to improve environmental protection, i.e. environment and air as such. It's definitely not like that. I have to say, if you look at it with the simple eye, you'll find today that one of the big myths has already been made here that the price of power electricity is market, which is not true. That means if we take any action, it will always be up to politicians to decide what the price of power electricity will look like. Something else is her transmission, but it's gonna come along here, and we're gonna have a lot of fun, but I gotta say, it's not like that for the heat. And when we look at it, if we wanted those exceptions, I lack the quantification of the cost of what it would cost us, the reconstruction of individual resources, because - and it also fell here - we don't have a replacement, that is, we would become importers of electricity exporters in a short time, which of course carries certain risks together, and certainly at least in the border areas as well, if neighbouring countries tolerate exceptions, you will not see improvement, because there depends on how the wind blows. [[15.40 hours]] What are we gonna say to each other? I'm from the border, and I remember a time when it was really very rusty. There's a power plant in Trutnov, but today it's more of a heat plant - a white snow attacked in the morning and the snow was black in the evening. This, of course, succeeded in removing the installation of fluid boilers, separators and all the technical equipment after 1989. Even better coal began to roll and wood chips began to burn. It's different today. But I remember a time when it was different, but when the wind blew from Poland, the situation was still rusty. I think Europe has to go hand in hand here. There's no need to rush, because then we shoot ourselves, I'd say, into our own feet, because our industry becomes hard to compete, and it's useless, because we still want to get there. In the end, we will come to it anyway, but it needs to be done in a way that is practically one moment in Europe. The question that was raised here - how much will it cost? I'd like to know the question. If someone here has the courage to put forward such an amendment, they should say what it will cost us. What awaits us then for this to be put into practice. I think it's very important. And if anyone has an ideology such that clean air above all else, no matter what it takes, I understand, but I certainly don't share that attitude. Then there's another thing. I've heard, I've noticed that we want to give the mayors further authority. Saying that the heater, either way, isn't suitable for heating in their villages, their village. What are we gonna do about it? Well, we'll ban it. Well, it's amazing, but it's got a few hooks. When I think about it, when the mayors first got another authority in history after 1989 and that was the possibility - or the municipal council - of raising real estate taxes, what did it look like? Well, it looked very rusty because the state didn't reduce the tax burden in general. This remained the same and the municipalities that raised the property tax, so of course the decision was very unpopular unless it was specified what exactly it was for. And you know what the state did next year? He raised the rate of this tax twice. That means the ones who picked it up once picked it up de facto twice. Those who picked it up, like, five times, like ten times. And that was a little deadly. I remember this unnamed county town that had big problems with it. And now here in this case. Well, who are you going to forbid from drowning that so-called low-quality brown coal or other topiaries? I don't know what it is. These people who use brown coal boilers aren't usually the richest ones in this state. I'd say they're people who aren't particularly well economically. And today they de facto don't even have to participate in the boiler replacement from those boiler subsidies, or they don't get to the order where they're drowning, of course, with something else. And brown coal is a heater, it's fuel. It's burning in brown coal power plants. Who wants to judge its quality? The mayor? Does it pee a lot or does it pee a little? I really don't understand. And if I take it completely ad absurdum, then you have two villages that are a thousand meters apart, which is not an exception in the Czech Republic, some of these municipalities even follow each other, and in one village they decide this way, this is how the mayor, the council and the other community decide not, and will blow from one village to another - so what will it look like? Those who have decided and happen to be blowing winds from those who haven't decided, it's gonna be amazing. I'd like to see the mayor use this. Please, this is merely a semblance - of transferring decision-making to local authorities. Let's not do this. Let's not do this. Let's change the terms so these people can drown something else. I understand that. But let's not be illusioned that some people will reach higher than the cheapest fuel approved. And if we want to change the cheapest fuel approved, then the state just has to take some steps. Otherwise, it just doesn't work out, and not the repression at all. Because many of these people, these citizens, if they don't listen to you, they're going to get into conflict this time, not with the state, but with the local government. And they just won't pay 'cause they don't have it for the fines. Let's not be illusioned. We'll have more debtors. I remember here -- you guys who yelled that those ugly executors, how horrible it is, those debtors' registers, how many debtors we have here, how many executions we have in the Czech Republic. Well, that's the way to raise them in this case. Let's not get illusions. Let's not do this, let's be on the ground, let's look at it sober. I understand that someone just likes nature, likes clean air and says it's the most valuable thing we have, which is true. On the other hand, the company has to live off of something. And that's the industry, that's the economy we're talking about. So let's always find a balance between what the ideal is. I can't do this without it. So I wish common sense and I do not support these naive ideas, the green ideals that I think have nothing to do here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u35	Thank you. I beg Mr Elfmark and Mrs Fialová after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly comment on the amendment to be tabled in a detailed debate by my colleague Balcarová. This amendment introduces a rule in the system of exceptions, which leads to the implementation of new limits primarily in the area of the largest electricity sources, where implementation is the most efficient and reduces pollution, as these sources burn much more coal than heat plants. For example, we can give an example of the coal power plant Počerada, which consumes almost the same amount of coal annually as all coal heat plants combined. The implementation is in line with the interest of the state, which is defined in the state energy concept of the Czech Republic and says that the priority in coal supply is heat plants and, on the contrary, is expected to decrease the consumption of coal and electricity production in condensing sources. Implementation has the least impact on energy security and energy prices, as it does not interfere with heat sources and merely reduces excess electricity production. It also accepts the main remark of the Confederation of Industry and Transport of the Czech Republic in the idea of total exclusion of exemptions, which was based on the fact that it may be difficult to meet the limits by 18 August 2021, and therefore proposes the possibility of maintaining exemptions for all sources, but for the category from 300 MW to limit validity until the end of 2025. This solves the problem of implementing the measure. I would like to ask all of you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u37	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Fialová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u38	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I signed up for the general debate to defend and say the reasons why I tabled some amendments and, at the same time, responded to some of the criticisms that have been so harshly said here. The first of these was Mrs Balcarová's complaint that my proposal was weak in the ban on burning in the boilers - to allow the mayors to ban this. This amendment was merely a response to an amendment prohibiting brown coal burning. Because, as has already been mentioned here, people have benefited from abundant boiler subsidies, and this proposal would prohibit the use of boilers and thwart investment by people who have already invested sufficient funds to improve air quality in their municipalities. First of all. Two. I have to respond here to the abolition of the exceptions that have been proposed. Firstly, I would like to support the decision of the Economic Committee, which said that this would have an impact on electricity and heat prices. Heat is due to the fact that from 11 of these sources, ten of them supply the heat of the community, and it would affect 177 000 households, which corresponds to approximately 225 000 citizens of this republic. [[15.50 hours]] The cost is not exactly how much it would cost to build new heat plants and, where appropriate, limit or convert these plants into heat sources. Moreover, this proposal, not granting exemptions, does not take into account the already problematic substances and pollutants that emit these power plants, which is mercury and chlorine, to which no proper measurement methods are to date, etc. No one asked the regional authorities, which have this competence to grant exemptions, if those operators even asked for it. And when some complaints were made here, I would raise one too. A seminar was held to defend the abolition of these exemptions, where a very important party was not invited, which were the operators and producers themselves. I would also like to respond to why I have tabled another bill, which is for the air quality improvement programme. I'm from the Ústí Region, where the program was also cancelled. It was said that the program should be the shortest possible time. But it is the courts and the process that has been subject to this that is one of the longest possible and will never be able to take effective action, the quickest way to apply these measures. That is why we have consulted the Ministry on what would be the best possible solution and we have come to the publication, a journal which would already oblige municipalities to really build bypasses, educate their residents and many other things that would really achieve a reduction. The last of my proposals, which I would like to introduce here, was the determination of the price and the process of monitoring the boilers, which was extended from two to three years, and the main reason was so called. price reductions, because we have often been informed in the media that the price is disproportionate, etc. A mechanism was created to guarantee the highest possible price, and citizens would not be forced to pay outrageous amounts for checking their boilers. On the basis of this, I have to put forward an amendment to the proposal, which I myself tabled on the basis of the notification by the Ministry of Finance that the price is not set, is not in accordance with the Price Act, and therefore, after the discussion, this possibility has been revised to the reference financial limit. I will read this proposal in a detailed debate. Thank you. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u39	Thank you. This was the last proper application for a general debate. However, there are two facts. Mrs Balcarová and Mrs Richterová after her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u40	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the speech - by Mr President - to Mrs Eva Fialová regarding the amendments and also to the seminar that we held in the Chamber of Deputies. It is precisely to me that the holding of seminars on various topics, which are linked, for example, to amendments that are being discussed in the Chamber of Deputies, is very desirable. I think the seminar was very good quality. And what was actually a reservation that the representatives of the Confederation of Industry and Transport wanted to perform in the opening block, but given that - I therefore organized the seminar and the opening block was intended for representatives of the public administration, I mentioned it as committee chair, then there spoke Deputy Minister of the Environment Mrs Peštová and then there spoke the Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region, here our colleague Vondrák, and I think it was just enough for us to speak there as representatives of the public administration, and then in the debate, anyone could speak. Industrial representatives reported for the debate a lot, and they got the vote. I think they could have said all the opinions they had, and they were answered. So it was perfectly fine for me. I'm getting this complaint repeatedly, but I don't really know what it's based on. What's bothering someone is that the industry's been left out somehow. I met with the Association of Industry, of course, on their request, immediately after they asked for the meeting, so within about two days I met with them and I gave them enough space and listened to their opinions and comments. So I think it's quite all right. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u41	Thank you, too. Please, Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate. I think it's obvious that the atmosphere is not a small topic, because the interests of industry actually mix here and how much we want to pay for the clean air. And I would really like to point out that this amendment, which I criticised, and I am glad that the debate was here, that the Commissioner, Mrs Fialová, responded to this, that the point is that we as citizens and as politicians must be able to deal with the toothlessness of the documents adopted, which will only deliver the matter formally purely, emptyly, and those air quality improvement programmes can, of course, be implemented as soon as they are written. Whether a court is running or not, doesn't affect the fact that if the proposed measures are good, then the municipalities, the agglomerations that concern them, because there's just bad air, they can follow them now. There is absolutely no need to remove it from that level today, from the fact that it is a measure of a general nature and that it is a judicial review. What's going on is that if we do it and we remove it, it won't be possible to deal with the very toothlessness. Today it was possible more effectively than in the public hearing that did not help, so it was possible for the court to deal with the lack of concrete measures, the priorityization that there was no timetable. If we just save that there must be a document adopted with some timetable, but it really won't be possible to make it worthwhile, so that it doesn't, as I said, paperwork for paper, we don't stand a chance. As has already been said, the amendment was tabled after consultation with the Ministry of Environment. [[Time warning]] Thank you. This is where the process suddenly rotates - the Ministry is wondering what it wants. Well, let's keep that in mind, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u43	Thank you. Mr Zahradník still in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u44	I, Mr Vice-President, will, if I may, take the words really to a point of fact to express what they are for. To respond to what my previous speaker Richterová said. We must not have the impression here or talk about industry as if it were a foreign world that pollutes our atmosphere and against which we have to fight to the throats and goods even at the cost of the trial. Industry is the most important area of our economy. He's giving work to hundreds of thousands of people. It creates a significant part of our gross domestic product and without it we cannot imagine the functioning of our economy, i.e. the life of all of us. Therefore, I would like us to always speak in a balanced manner not only about the interests of citizens and the clean air, but also about the interest of citizens in the economic prosperity of our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u45	Well, thank you. That was the last point of fact. If there are no more applications for the general debate, I am ending it. I will ask the final words after the general debate. Not interested. And I'm going to ask the rapporteur because I was taking the mid-term procedure to see if there was a motion to return the guarantee committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u46	That wasn't the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u47	Okay, so we have nothing to vote on right now. I am opening up a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I have three applications here. Please, Mrs Fialová and then Mrs Balcarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u48	Have a good afternoon again. I would like to sign up for this House document under number 538. As was said in the general debate, it concerns only the wording of the price to the reference financial limit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u49	Thank you. Mrs Balcarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for the amendment, House Press 536. [[document]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u51	I have not now noted whether there is a number of the amendment. [[Messenger. Balcar: 536.]] Thank you. Mr. Zahradník, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u52	Mr Vice-President, I want to sign up for two amendments. The first concerns electricity in transport, and it is House document 548. The second concerns the inspection of boilers, House document 549. I am in favour of the two proposals, which I believe I have given sufficient reasons for in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u53	Thank you. I don't have any more applications for a detailed debate, so I'm done. Let me ask you about the final words. Mr. Secretary? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u54	Thank you for the discussion. I promise that we will examine all the proposals in committee meetings. I just want to assure you that, of course, the Ministry of the Environment - because here it sounded a little bit like the interests of the environment and air quality are being defended differently. I think there's a general consensus here that environmental quality, and air quality, of course, belongs to it, is one of the highest priorities that we can have here, because it's about quality of life. But it's always good to really know what the proposal will bring. We are really dealing with every amendment very closely, we are here for that, we have experts for that. I look forward to another debate in the committees following the new amendments that have come. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u55	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u56	I will add very briefly only after this very long debate that there has not been any proposal that we can vote on, but I believe that the Guarantee Committee on the Environment will be very intensively devoted to this even after the experience of the previous committee meeting, when we have devoted about an hour and a half to this beyond the specified time. So I hope, and I would also like to call on the Minister to do so, that he may come personally to defend this law on the Guarantee Committee, so that we may have the opportunity to discuss the various details of the amendments that I also see... Of course, I understand the criticism in the sense that we should know the implications. But I am not going to forgive myself for saying that a number of amendments, as President of ODS Stanjura has already said here at the very beginning, are actually coming from the parliamentary benches of the government party. This means that it can be assumed that they were very consulted, if not prepared directly at the Ministry, and even there I would say that we often lack information about the impact. It is precisely because the proposals are so extensive and are not part of the commentary procedure that it would be good to give way to this practice and in the future to prepare the amendment itself with the changes that the Ministry wants to push through and not to use the amendments to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-003-002.u57	Thank you, too. Since there is nothing to vote on, I am ending the discussion of this point. Opening point
