ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-002-056.u1	56. Proposal for the election of members of the Council of the State Cinematography Fund In this case, we are working with the resolution of the Election Commission No. 53 of February 27, with its third part. I will briefly remind you that two elections have already taken place at the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 21 March. It was a complement for the posts of members who had resigned before, and we elected Mr. Petr Vítek and Mr. Viktor Tauš. Today, we will vote for three new members for a full term of office in the State Cinema Fund, i.e. for three years. They're new candidates for the vacant posts that were released there on April 5th. On the ballot according to what the Minister of Culture proposed by Ilja Šmíd, because in this case the House is submitting proposals to the Minister of Culture, you will have a total of six candidates, Mrs Helena Bendová, who received 7 nominations for culture, Ivana Hejlíčková, 8 nominations, Jaromír Kallista, 6 nominations, Tomáš Škrdlant, 2 nominations, Marta Švecová, 4 and Daniel Tuček, 5 nominations. The Minister is present if any of you would like a brief comment on those candidates. Anyway, all the CVs and all the data have already been sent out to the MPs, and I am merely briefly commenting here that, contrary to resolution 53 in that third part of the list, Mr Viktor Tauš will no longer be on the ballot, because he has just been elected, as I said a moment ago, in the previous election on 21 March. I ask you now, Mr President, to open the debate on the candidate. In this case, the special law does not provide for a method of choice, but the electoral commission normally proposes a secret choice, i.e. a two-way option.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-002-056.u2	Mr President, I will not open the debate because the debate has been closed on this point because we have been voting for several times. And I would remind you that the Chamber of Deputies dealt with this at the 7th meeting, when the first and second elections took place, and they are in your commission's resolution. So I'm going to break point 56 and open point
