ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u1	114. Government bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, and some other laws / House Print 79/ - Third Reading This House press has been renegotiated on 29 June at the 16th meeting when we interrupted it in the debate. Mr Jan Kněžínek and Mr Zdeněk Ondráček are already sitting at the rapporteur's table, or the Minister of Justice and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee. I would remind you that the amendments are in the Houses of Press 79/3, which was delivered on 23 May 2018, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee was delivered as the House Press 79/4. So we will now continue the interrupted debate. Mr Benda was interrupted again in his speech, see the Steno Protocol. For further login by Members, see Minutes on the information board. I ask Mr Benda, who is interested in continuing his speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u2	Mr President, Mr Minister... [[And I'll ask everyone to remain calm in the hall! Thank you.]] ... Dear Minister, gentlemen of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I do not remember everything that I was able to say or cannot say last time in the interrupted debate, and since I think we are approaching the vote, I would like to repeat this once more. We will have several important votes ahead of us, and I would like to draw your attention, in particular, to the vote on seduction to obstruction of justice, which I consider to be in my own way the key vote of today. Perhaps most of us have already accepted that the obstruction of justice in the version submitted by the Ministry of Justice, which was partly modified by Mrs Válková - and there I assume that her proposal will pass - will remain or will be newly incorporated into the Code of Criminal Procedure. I guess we all feel that actually presenting false evidence, false evidence, deliberately false evidence, bringing it to court is a thing that should not happen, and that it can also be a crime. With me, I say, there are some doubts that remain, and therefore I am not withdrawing my proposal for a complete release of this crime. There are some doubts as to whether this will result in a number of criminal proceedings, as well as civil proceedings, being extended as one of the parties will claim "false evidence has been presented" and criminal prosecutions will take place and this may complicate the proceedings. But in the end, I am prepared to accept this, and it is a matter that is relatively common even in the surrounding countries. What I think is really very dangerous is that there should be a seduction to this crime. Seduction is generally a parameter that we have in criminal law only in three points, and it is all points that are not in themselves a criminal offence, such as abortion, suicide, and drunkenness of children. That, in itself, is not a crime, but only because we see it as a bad act, but we do not want to punish this person for it, so directing him, seducing him to this crime is a crime - that is, to this crime, not to this crime, but to this crime, is a crime. In all other facts, and it doesn't matter if it's murder, robbery, rape, anything else, it's always a participant's action, that is, if I've been involved in any way and at least made preparations in those cases where there may be preparation or attempted or committed a crime, then I'm criminally responsible for who committed the crime. This would be the only case where it would be a criminal offence to produce false evidence or false expert opinion or another, and at the same time, it would be a criminal offence in itself, without at least an attempt being made. I consider it an extremely dangerous thesis. I strongly hope that the House will support those proposals that are aimed at releasing this, because it really can be created by any discussion with a witness or others, to begin prosecution and will lead to the risk of a significant criminalisation of the practice of advocacy, but frankly, to the effect of the state prosecutor's office. I can imagine the reverse case that the prosecutor will somehow try to influence the witness to testify in his favor, and there will be criminal prosecution. Here I wanted to draw attention to this part of our negotiations and very much ask the House to remain obstruction of justice if they comply with the Government's proposal - and I understand the reasons, although I say there are still some doubts - at least she agreed to my proposal C3, which means the release of this seduction, which I really consider extremely dangerous and extremely exploitable and unusual in criminal law, because where this is an offence in itself, it is always there when I participate in such a crime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u3	Thank you, too. Mrs Válková also signed up for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u4	Hello. Mr President, dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I will try this time precisely because it is an area of criminal law, not to give a lecture here on the action of participation, or that, in fact, any participant can only be criminal if he is prosecuted for the criminal offence of the main perpetrator, otherwise the participant is not actually a criminal, so I will not do the lecture because it would be unnecessarily complicated. I'll give you specific examples and I'll go directly, as they say, in media res, that means into what's questionable. I'm not going to talk about obstruction of justice, because I think we've managed to extricate it, that you can raise your hand for that without worry. Unfortunately, obstruction of justice exists here, we've all encountered it sooner or later. We know that forged documents are being submitted, altered data, like photographic data, which I can think of right now, wills that are antidoted, etc. All of this is being treated in other legal systems abroad, like Germany, we don't have it perfectly treated yet. If we accept a simple crime, I mean the fact that it really isn't complicated, and which we've also refined by narrowing it down to the most serious negotiations, then we're going to have this problem, I hope, solved. [[9.30 hours]] And it's such a raised index finger because there's a rate in two years, and as you know, the haunting, please, if you hear it, don't believe it at all. The Criminal Code basically forbids, except for exceptions, when there's a rate of two years, she's right there in five years, so impose unconditional penalties. So for the first time, if it's the first time, there's no way we're gonna put this guy in his sweatpants for obstruction of justice. Unless there are qualified facts, relapses, organized crime in the sense that there are more people involved, etc. But basically, it really is a raised index finger: you must not make the proceedings difficult, whether it be civil or criminal, protective, you must behave in a way that the court is based on really true, objective evidence. We are the essence of this, we will vote on it in my amendment, but it is not only mine, because we have also agreed on this on the constitutional legal committee with a number of colleagues - it is currently: who, for the purposes of bringing proceedings before a court, before an international judicial authority, or in criminal proceedings, or in such proceedings, will present - and now it will come to an important point: not only the means of proof as it was originally, but now there is a factual or documentary evidence, and a warning that is of substantial importance. In any particular case, the court will examine whether such false evidence really was of significant importance for a decision which is known to be counterfeit or altered or intending to read it - or, of course, you have already come to know it in the amendment. I would sum it up, and I would have said it here, even though I think, indeterminately clearly, but I have understood it that way, even from my fellow Member, Mr Benda, that we will probably not have a problem with this fact and there is a great chance that we will approve it. The other one is very brief, but I'm asking for your attention. Here he is: he will still be punished - that is to say, by the pick-up index finger, unless he is a repeater - who else seduces to commit the crime of perjury, perjury, false expert opinion or perjury. What's going on in practice? I can be, for example, in the course of custody proceedings. confronted with various emotionally difficult situations, and someone advises me to falsely accuse someone, for example. That the father sexually abuses the daughter or son who's always there for the weekend. I don't want to lend it to him. Let me give you an example. In that case, I'm seducing him to commit a crime, but, of course, the crime here is confined to perjury. I falsely accuse him, that ex-partner of doing something, he doesn't really do it, and in that case, if I say no as a mother, I will never lower myself and do nothing, so precisely because of the act of participation, because the main perpetrator, which I would mark him, I will not do so, the one who seduces me, the snake in the back, remains impunity and will do it again. And if he does that, I'm a lawyer, and I'm always gonna defend the law, if it's gonna be some bad lawyer who goes this far and convinces his clients, I hope we barely have lawyers like that, but there are exceptions here, that's exactly what's gonna happen to him. It is a seduction to commit a criminal offence of perjury, or perjury, or false expert opinion, or perjury. This is also a major obstruction of justice. I think we're overheard emotionally here on social media, as Tomáš Sokol, a lawyer, says we're going to paralyze the law enforcement activity. It's really not like that. I believe 99 percent of lawyers have no problem with this at all. I don't understand why they should be worried if this fact accelerates the trial and makes it fairer. That's why I'm interrogating you to leave the seduction behind. Moreover, it is also of course, it will still be punished, just sort of tagged at the rate of two years, or again just a raised index finger. And yet, because some among you might hesitate, there is now widespread effective regret. What does that mean? That the offence of obstruction of justice in both of these factual variants has such a regime that if anyone decides until the harmful outcome occurs, the perpetrator has until then the opportunity to tell the court: I have submitted a not-quite-true expert opinion, I have unfortunately done something that will fill the reality of the seduction. So at such a moment ex lege, i.e. without consideration of the court, simply ex lege under Section 33 ceases his criminal liability, so that he is blameless, nothing happened. I think there's really no need for ghosts around here. And why am I doing this? The amendment of the Penal Code deserves our attention for other reasons perhaps more. And, as is customary in the Czech Republic, a wild debate was launched for seduction and therefore obstruction of justice in the fundamental facts, i.e. the submission of falsified documentary evidence. But in fact, it is a very necessary amendment, which criminalizes ways of legalising crime, so-called. money laundering, financing terrorist activities, and at the same time implementing some of our commitments. I dare say that from the point of view of criminal law there are also procedural tools that I do not want to talk about here, which are very useful, various orders to provide data. It's very important in today's society and we miss it. It is very useful, effective and certainly deserves your attention and a final positive vote in third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u5	Thank you. Mr Feri is now in the debate, Mr Michálek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u6	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank Professor Válková for taking up the solution to the most loud problem in the Committee's discussion and thus adapting the original text of § 347a, i.e. obstruction of justice. However, it must be said that it has not yet been removed, and Mrs Válková has put it this way, that it is now resolved, that it is all right now. On the other hand, we have not yet voted on this, and it may theoretically happen that this proposal will pass in its original form, i.e. in the form of awful, in the form we disagree with. And in this debt, the TOP 09 MEP will vote in favour of correcting the provisions of obstruction of justice and, at the same time, the elimination of the seduction. It may be worth recalling, it is quite a long time ago, how this proposal came here, and very closely - and please do not take this as a filipika against the present minister - it is very closely related to the previous minister and to the way in which his work, which was not characterised by consultation with legal professions, with all the individual players who were not entirely marked by taking into account the objections and in some way trying to deal with them. The very name of the substance at all, i.e. obstruction of justice, in the context of political debate, has led to the fact that, on the one hand, those who want decisions to be fair are, as quickly as possible, and on the other hand, those who want success in a given matter be achieved solely by lying, exclusively by presenting false documents and other similar evidence. But that's not really the case, and whoever says that's the case is lying shamelessly. I have spoken of objections and of what has been said by representatives of the Supreme Court during the debate, whether at first, second, third reading or at the round table of the Constitutional Legal Committee on this matter, with the participation of the state prosecutor. [[9.40 hours]] The first thing was the question of transposition. That's how it came here, too. It came here as if it was exclusively a transposition, as if we wanted to live up to our obligations. But it's a gold-plating demonstration, or you can just tell me, and unfortunately, it wasn't denied for the three readings that it wasn't gold-plating. This means that we are going beyond something for which someone does not see reason either politically or professionally. If you look at the comments of the Czech Bar Association, it is clearly mentioned there. Another issue related to regulation in foreign legal systems, when unfortunately we did not get an overview of how this was dealt with abroad, in other countries. There have just been indications that our adjustment is more stringent than milder. And then let us ask ourselves why we could not, at first, take a more moderate path in this matter, especially in the absence of a proper expert debate. Another complaint was about reducing the defendant's space to defend himself. This concerns the original text of obstruction of justice which may not pass, namely that the accused and de facto his defense attorneys must be shaken, if by chance the document, the evidence, is not evidence, is not altered in any way. [[unintelligible.]] And to lessen the possibility of defense, or the possibility of defense, I see in particular that the accused may simply have at his disposal some kind of evidence that he is not 100% convinced of, and then he will wonder if he will be threatened with prosecution for it. And the fact that they've only been there for two years isn't exactly a big comfort. And the last thing, and this is a practical issue - but unfortunately, when I took two recordings of the very round table on the constitutional law committee, where this was to be clarified and discussed and several times it was said - is the relation of this provision to criminal proceedings and to other proceedings. In particular, in terms of the delays in the proceedings. Since we already have such an experience within the framework of, for example, arbitration, that it is the easiest way to build up, it is to object to the iniquities of some evidence. To argue that this is a false document, that the signature is a fake, for example. Which can lead to significant delays not only in criminal proceedings, but also in civil proceedings. These are things that unfortunately have not been settled here in the Chamber of Deputies and unfortunately have not been settled by the previous ministry. As far as the process at the Legislative Council of the Government was concerned, it was quite openly said at the seminar of the Constitutional Legal Committee that the Criminal Commission, or the Criminal Law Working Commission, had made comments on this, which had not been settled, and then it simply moved here to the House. And I say, it is not a complaint against the present Minister, who I am very fond of. It's a complaint towards the previous minister, but there's nothing we can do about it. Let us keep our fingers crossed that at least the sensible amendments that correct - thank you again, Mrs Válková - which correct obstruction of justice and remove the deed of seduction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u7	[[The President has not responded for a while to the fact that Mr Feri is finished.]] I'm sorry. And I'll ask Mr. Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was worried that the matter of obstruction of justice was so interesting and attractive that you took a little nap. But now on the subject that we are discussing. The Pirate Party is an anti-corruption party. And today we have inherited such a system that it is possible to legally submit falsified material to the courts and to those people who do so, so there is no penalty. We have come to a state that has been left to us by the traditional parties, that when someone directs witnesses to testify unjustly, that means knowingly stating false facts that have a significant, significant effect on the court's decision, it's legal if it doesn't happen if the witness doesn't finish it. But these people who do and go around those witnesses rely on the fact that this will not, of course, be revealed. So this profession stays here. And I sincerely hope that the vast majority of lawyers are not involved in this. But as legislators, we should deal with this matter systemically and ensure that the small part that undoubtedly exists here, and is obviously causing great harm to those people, is under threat of criminal sanctions. We're here to protect those citizens who become victims of being framed in quotes, send a fake document. We've seen cases like this where people have to deal with cases that somebody sent some fake invoices and other stuff like that. And these, of course, are incredible costs, and it complicates business for those people, and they have to deal unnecessarily with some courts instead of pursuing their profession. People may as well become victims of being framed by a witness against them. And this, of course, concerns not only lawyers, but also state authorities, prosecutors. In the event that the D.A. takes advantage of his power in this way, the law envisages a qualified deed, which means a higher sentence for the D.A. This means, it is also a law that protects citizens from abuse of power against them. I wanted to say one more thing that concerns wiretaps, because the current proposal, as it is prepared, envisages that in qualified and corrupt cases of obstruction of justice, it would be possible to put wiretaps on. I think that is correct, I consulted this issue with Transparency International, one of the leading organizations in the fight against corruption in the Czech Republic, and they also tend to do so, that it is right that it should be possible to put wiretaps on those corruption forms. Because there's no other way to find out that it actually happened and prove it in court. In the case of those fundamental facts, there is no possibility of wiretapping. So I think that in this case, the Ministry has submitted a proposal that is proportional. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I would also like to say that the adjustment at least at the basic level of obstruction of justice is also possible in Austria and Slovakia. So the law itself, whether we lean forward or not to the guidance regime or the seduction, as it is in the law, is needed here. The law really needs it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u9	I'll ask everyone in the room for some peace. If you have anything to do, please go to the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. So, the motion to release the wiretap, or at least I won't support the motion to release the wiretap for corrupt cases of obstruction of justice filed by Mr Chvojka. I wanted to say that wiretaps have a very detailed legal regulation in our legislation and that they can only be ordered in cases where it can reasonably be assumed that important facts for criminal proceedings will be acquired by them and if the purpose pursued cannot be achieved otherwise, or if otherwise it would be significantly difficult to achieve it. It is also expressly stipulated in the Act in Section 88 that the conduct of wiretapping and recording of telecommunications traffic between the lawyer and the accused is inadmissible. If the police authority finds, during the wiretapping and recording of telecommunications traffic, that the accused communicates with his lawyer, it is obliged to immediately destroy the recording of the wiretap and to use the information he has learned in this context in no way. The report on the destruction of the alert shall be included in the file. So we have a pretty detailed wiretap today. And in the past, yes, there was a problem that it was abused and that everyone was listening in. That was a serious problem. Even constitutional officials. Fortunately, I would say that there has been a substantial improvement in the work of both the prosecutors and the courts involved, so this has improved, and this abuse is no longer a flagrant problem. On the contrary, we are now dealing with the fact that the prosecutions, which are often based on interrogation in these corrupt matters - we all know David Rath's case or Jana Nagyová's case - cannot be brought to an end because there is an endless debate, an endless question of whether the wiretap has been acquired rightly or unjustly. The Supreme Courts in these particular matters have come to the conclusion that the wiretappings took place legally. [[9.50 hours]] So, of course, these wiretaps make sense if they're used in proportion and lead to this corrupt legal act being prosecuted effectively. Of course, it is only possible for the President of the Senate to order them in a preparatory procedure, a judge on a proposal from the prosecutor. The order must be justified, it must be written. So, basically, the legislator set the guarantees in the maximum possible way to set them up. Basically, I can't think of what more we can do to avoid using wiretaps. So I wanted to support this government proposal - as we say, we are constructive opposition, so we are deciding on the content of what is presented to us - not those amendments that, let's say frankly, are a bit of a result of the lobby of lawyers, which, on the one hand, are intended to interfere with the corruption crime of obstruction of justice, when lawyers are offering someone the benefit of basically thwarting criminal or some trial in court, and it leads them to perjury, that is point number one. And I don't think it should be allowed to go around and guide that some people do, unfortunately, and then it will end up with those citizens who haven't done anything. So let's keep our heads in this, let's not go under the attorneys' lobby, and in my opinion, let's do what's right, or let's finally get this settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u11	Thank you. Mr Chvojka is next in the debate. Let me read you a few apologies. Mrs Markéta Adamová Pekarová apologises today between 9.00 and 13.00 for health reasons, Mrs Radka Maxová apologizes today from 1.00 to 16.30 for work reasons, Mr Jiří Kobza apologises today from 10.30 to 13.00 for work reasons, Mr Patrik Nacher apologises today between 10.20 and 12.00 for work reasons and Mr Pour apologizes from 9.20 for health reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning again, colleagues and colleagues, Minister. I confess that I didn't want to perform anymore, because I realized that actually part of that third reading was somehow settled three months ago - today we continue at the third reading and the first part took place in the middle of June. So, until half an hour ago, I thought I had said all the important things in June. However, not only on the basis of Mr Michálek's speech, I decided to speak once more and to comment on my amendment, respectively. on three parts of my amendment, which I would like to change in some way the amendment to the Criminal Code. About the first two points. Point number one, when I want to in some way modify the newly anchored criminal act of obstruction of justice, there I confess that there has been a certain change in the shift of my opinion and I am prepared to accept that in § 347a the offence of obstruction will remain described as proposed. This means that I do not apply to point 1 of my amendment, I apply to it, but I think it is no longer relevant. As regards point No 2, i.e. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. No. 2 § 347a, where is described so-called seduction, where I fully agree with and support my colleague Marek Benda's amendment. I think that it is technically better than my proposal, and I will be happy if this amendment by my colleague Benda, I believe, is accepted by C3. Now, I would like to comment on the last part of my amendment, it is in the procedure of voting A3. I beg his support. It concerns those fellow Michálek mentioned wiretaps. Well, I'm not the kind of person who sees corruption behind everything that wants a police state that likes to be bugged by everyone and sees a dirty suspect in everyone. As for pointing out various excesses, I've already talked about it in the first part of the first reading. If Mr Michálek remembers, for example, through the President. Zadeh case. This was a widely mediated case, where not only did the judge exclude information that was not related to prosecution, the case file, there was a record of communication between the client and the lawyer, the judge did not exclude this information from the file, the information concerned, unfortunately, the private life of the lawyer, but also left in this file all the communication of the defense with the client with the reason that there is no distinction between data obtained from wiretaps and regarding private life. That means we have these excessive acts here. I think the lawyer's secret is the gros life of a lawyer, the obligation to remain silent is the basic duty of an attorney, and these are excesses that a criminal code would record if it passed the way it was designed. I think that obstruction of justice, as proposed in Section 347a, does not show such a sign of seriousness that it is necessary to include it in the category of particularly serious offences. It should be said that the narrative part of the provision operates on crimes to which the law provides for a maximum sentence of at least eight years of imprisonment, and I do not therefore think that it is necessary to include them in the category of particularly serious offences that would allow such significant interference in privacy as the regulation of wiretaps and phone traffic records. Unfortunately, unfortunately, this requirement is not justified by the petitioner in my opinion, and it seems to make it easier on the one hand for law enforcement authorities, but, on the other hand, very disproportionately burdensome for disabled persons in terms of their intervention in their Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms. And yet it must be said that this intervention is irreversible. Who's gonna give that lawyer back to showing up in the file information from her private life? And the judge says he can't distinguish information from her private life and information from another. In particular, following the current developments in the caselaw, this means should be made possible and used only in really exceptional cases and not as a normal means of providing evidence in criminal proceedings. So I will ask once again for the support of my amendment, in the procedure, I repeat, paragraph A3. And I believe that this amendment will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u13	Thank you. Your speech raised a factual remark by Mrs Válková. A real point, Mrs Válková? [[He's talking outside his desk, but he's interested in a point of fact.]] Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u14	Thank you. Maybe I won't even need two minutes, Mr. Chairman. I'm the only one who doesn't like to argue with an extraordinary case. I hope the Zadeh case is special. We all have the opportunity, even partially, against our will to follow him. I mean, lawyers who watch a little bit of what's going on know that it's a case that's marked by a bunch of misconceptions and that there's already a disciplinary procedure going on, that both judges and prosecutors haven't always done the right thing. So to say that we will not accept any deed that falls to an indefinite number of cases and is meaningful, desirable and thus improves the justice of the trials, I think that is not an appropriate example. So I wanted to respond. I hope the Zadeh case is really special and won't happen again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u15	Thank you. Next up, Mr Výborný is entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u16	Mr President, Minister, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I did not initially want to do this, but there have been things that have been said here - I have already said a lot during the first reading - nevertheless there have been things that I think must be commented on in some way. On the one hand, I welcome and, if I may say so for the KDU-ČSL club, the effort to address the whole issue of obstruction of justice in some compromise way, as is happening in Section 347a, there we are certainly in agreement in this sense. What we certainly can't identify with is seduction. As it has finally been said here, I do not want to repeat the arguments that my colleague, Marek Benda, or Dominik Feri, said here. What do I want to say? The matter was discussed not only on the Constitutional Legal Committee, but also within the framework of the expert seminar. Many of you were there. And it is not true that this is some sort of lobbying of the Czech Bar Association. I want to say clearly that there was legal capacity at the seminar, including the representatives of the Supreme Court, until yesterday the chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court, Dr. Baxa. And it was clear from that seminar that, on the one hand, it was on the other hand, of course, the obstruction of justice, but, in particular, the seduction is simply not a unified view even within these judicial capacities. And so it is not wise from my point of view to add it in this way to a standard that is clearly transpositional. We've heard that before. This is, of course, a matter that may be behind the original formation of the Ministry of Justice, not with the current Minister. But if there is a request from the legal community to discuss this matter more deeply, let us not really go in this way, which in a way will undermine the balance within the criminal process. That's just the way it is. Let us discuss this with the professional public and then have the Ministry of Justice prepare any solution that it deems appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u17	Thank you. And one more point of fact - Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u18	I apologise, but to a colleague of yours, Mr President. I have to say, this isn't really gonna find out about the trial. They really won't. And when you were talking about that round table that, of course, I attended, I think those of you who know the judges and prosecutors know them from their personalities. And the judges are very restrained. Always. Even on professional diapers, when you ask them for an opinion, they say: do not ask us for an opinion, it is possible, of course, but it is your authority, it is your responsibility. So they've been restrained, like they're restrained mostly if we don't make a full kick. If we wanted to criminalize something that would be contrary to the overall system and the basis of the criminal code, then surely the President of the Supreme Court of Shamal would have become less distant. But this is about something that is obviously the subject of our discussion in particular. I have tried to specify the examples, and my colleague Michálek, by your means, Mr President, has made it almost perfect. Now he wakes up again for sure when I speak of him, that he has brought something almost to perfection when he said that there are cases of orbiting witnesses and their guidance. And it's impunity. And I don't think it's good to live with that either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u19	Thank you for the exemplary observance of the time, and Mr Benda is duly signed up for the debate, and then Mr Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u20	Mr President, Minister, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I know that this looks like an argument between lawyers, but, after all, the amendment to the Penal Code introducing new crimes is a matter of relative importance. This isn't some triviality that can be changed in six months, or you could say we've made a mistake. This is an important matter affecting people's lives. If one of these prosecutions starts to run against you, it's not funny. Even if she ends up, as my colleague Válková said here, perhaps by a judgment-free or a halt, we all know how it interferes with human life. In fact, I was provoked to perform by my colleague Michálek, an honored fellow, whom I otherwise respect, but to come here and say with sovereignty to himself, "Transparency International told me it was okay," so it's undoubtedly okay, I think it's a little dangerous. We really should listen much more to the legal professions that concern matters. And let's not pretend that lawyers have some advantages because they're lawyers. That's not attorney protection at all. That's a thing that's repeatedly misunderstood here. And I'll be doing a seminar on October 12th. I'm inviting everyone. Protecting the law, her secret, is protecting the accused. It is the protection of every citizen who has the right to defend himself. It is one of the most important rights enshrined in the Charter, which has been trampled and suppressed in many fundamental ways in the past, especially in the 1950s and 1970s. That's not a privilege of attorney. That's the right of defence. This is one of the fundamental human rights that I have, that even the meanest criminal has the right to be represented in front of the state and that this representation is private and cannot be penetrated. That was the first point. Second point. Again, from the mouth of my colleague Michálek, it was said here how our wiretap was solved. Well, that's what I'm saying, we really don't have that figured out. Not even seemingly. The number of wiretaps is still increasing. It's one of the most popular institutions that law enforcement agencies are putting in place today. Fortunately, the fact that we got out of these situations that a police officer might have run to a judge or a prosecutor, handed over a bunch of phone numbers and eavesdropped on the President of the Constitutional Court, maybe we got rid of that. Still, I don't think we have a wiretap issue solved at all. There is one major problem that this ex post check, which according to the Criminal Code should work on the Supreme Court, that everyone who has been eavesdropped has to know about it and then may request a review of the Supreme Court whether such a wiretap was legal or not. Unfortunately, there are very few cases of information, because the law enforcement authorities are still pretending to continue to do so, but for the fact that this institute has been operating for ten years, more than ten years, we just have a problem here. On the contrary, we should really deal with wiretaps. That's not a thing that's not being abused in this country. And saying it's all cool and cool, I don't think it's supposed to ring from this counter. And one last thing. My colleague Chvojka's proposals, which point to when wiretapping cannot be used... It's always so simple to say, it's a corruption offense, so we all have to be very strict there. First of all, it's far from corrupt crimes, it's not guidance, it's not seduction. Sometimes it can be corruption, sometimes it may not be corruption, but it's certainly not automatically corruption crimes. It's not affecting public authorities. At the same time, Mr Chvojka's proposals aim only to avoid breaking the general boundaries over the age of eight when wiretapping is possible - when wiretapping is possible. It says here, it's such a serious crime that even at lower rates, we can use wiretaps. No one doubts that the highest and most qualified criminal elements will be wired. But if we really consider this to be a fundamental threat to social values, that it will be possible to wiretap them even in cases where there is no penalty rate, I don't think that's automatic and obvious at all. And always hiding everything for the fight against corruption is very unfortunate. And I would very much intercede not to go this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u21	Thank you. Now two factual points. Mrs Válková - again? Or did I not delete you? [[Mr Wálková is waving that he has no factual comment at this time.]] So I'm erasing. So, Mr. Michálek - a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u22	Thank you for the floor. In response to my colleague Benda, through the President, I was talking about setting up wiretaps. As far as the ex post wiretap is concerned, of course I agree with that. That's a big problem. We're supposed to deal with this. However, it is not the subject of this amendment. But I can assure you that I have spoken to the chairman of the wiretap committee that we have here in the Chamber of Deputies, and that we will be preparing a proposal that will address this because the situation is not satisfactory. So, yes, I agree with you on this. That ex post check, there's something to improve. These people really don't get informed, but let's sort this out separately where it's supposed to be. We're basically dealing with the cases here, I printed this place out of the Internet, the New Mafia case is sending companies into trouble with fake invoices. [[It shows a printed article.]] Fake invoices, insolvency proceedings, the company's got a bad business because of these crooks. That's what we're dealing with in this obstruction of justice. Just a little while longer. The wiretap is ordered only in a few specific cases, if someone is using his power position as an official in forging evidence, if he wants to cause harm to others by doing so, if he promises to benefit others or obtains it for himself, or if counterfeit evidence as a member of an organized group, or by doing so will cause damage to a large extent. So the wiretap is really only required in qualified, serious and corrupt cases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u23	Thank you. Mr Válek has now duly entered into the debate, and then Mr Blažek has signed up from his seat. [[Mr Blažek walks around the Chamber.]] Not exactly from the point of view. [[Glee in the hall.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u24	Good morning. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a lawyer for a lawyer. I've decided to interrupt because this is a very professional issue. One tries to perceive, I don't know how others, what you're illegals, those expert arguments. It seems to me like when we were in health care looking for a balanced relationship between a patient and a doctor, as well as looking for some balanced relationship between the state's authority, represented by the prosecutor, and the other party, represented by a defense attorney. If we recall the trials with Milada Horáková, if we recall the previous regime, the situation was clearly on the side of the courts and prosecutors, where the defense attorney basically didn't stand a chance in many cases. Then it rolled over to the other side. I'm just wondering where the line is. I remembered a higher moral principle, where the limit is a higher moral principle, where the suspect, whatever the suspect is, has committed anything, the most brilliant crimes, still has the right to defend himself as effectively as possible, using actually all possible means of defending himself, and when, on the contrary, the limit where the state is 100% certain on the basis of an investigation, on the basis of evidence that the one who committed the worst possible crime that one can imagine should actually be closed and severely punished as soon as possible and in the shortest time. One tends to bow to one side or the other. But it's all about finding some kind of justice, finding justice and balancing between the two systems. [[There's noise in the room.]] Why do I say that? I am saying this because I think that this option, including the amendment, is the search for this path. It's never gonna be perfect, it's never gonna be optimal. He always gets a little bit on one side or the other. In general, I think that in every decent society, in every society that believes in itself and is democratic enough, the rights of the weaker should be protected rather than those of the stronger should be protected. And with all due respect to all the lawyers who speak here, from my point of view, an absolute layman, like in medicine, the weaker rights, pulling the patient for the shorter rope, he's the one who needs to be protected, so in criminal proceedings for the shorter string, the one who needs to be protected, the one who's weaker, he's pulling the defendant. That is why I think we should, if we adopt this law, in any case, with an amendment... [[The MP is silent because of the noise in the hall.]] Thank you. In any case, with the amendment. And we should think about the fact that, as the Chamber of Deputies, we should always defend democracy and the rights of the weaker. And the weaker ones in this case are the charges. The state has all the tools, all the power, the whole investigation system, and the charges often have nothing at all, often they're ordinary, simple, poor people who only have the attorney to defend them. And this is what we should always be aware of, and these are what we should protect by law. But we can't shoot any of those sides. That's what I was gonna say as a layman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u25	Thank you. By disrupting the debate of the members of the Constitutional Committee, the Member has raised several factual points. So first, Mrs Válková, then Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u26	I see we're not really going to be bored today. I really appreciate Mr Válek, my name tag, his expertise, but I have to fix it now. Indeed, the weakest are the hundreds of thousands of victims and the victims. Attention, I hope, and I still believe it, I hope not, I believe it, I believe that of the thousands of defendants, 990 is right to stand there justifiably. And those permissions are embedded in the procedural rules. As we know, this example was not only Rath, if he has a skilled defense attorney and can pay them that the service of the best defense attorneys is not the same for everyone, so of course he can play with it. But the weakest really are the damage and victims of crimes. And it is they who have the right to have a symbolic weapon settlement. I think that obstruction of justice in the rule of law should be the essence of the crime, including when someone is leading to such an act, regardless of whether it is a lawyer, a tax advisor, a layman or, for example, a prosecutor. I'd measure to the same degree here. It's unacceptable, it's influence, it's obstruction of justice. On the contrary, I think the expression of obstruction of justice describes the essence of what we should criminalize. Unfortunately, in some cases we do it, until I think very slightly, because it is there within two years. But I agree that we have to try it out. But I certainly wouldn't want us to say that the weakest side, at the moment, is not the weakest, the penal code gives her a lot of authority, the accused. The weakest side until recently and still is damaged and the victim of the crime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u27	Thank you. The Member of Volný has withdrawn his factual comment. Mr Michálek, then Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u28	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the Professor has said exactly the right thing. We have criminal proceedings in our right to primarily protect victims of crimes. That means, those are the weaker parties, their rights need to be protected. Let me give you a specific example here. As I was talking about the new mafia sending companies into trouble with fake invoices, it's on news.cz. The article says that it is from 2010, but I assume that there will be a number of such cases that are constantly repeated that RI OKNA was exposed to an invoice that was false. They sent it to the insolvency court, and on the basis of forged invoices, they instigated insolvency proceedings. And if your business partners find out that the court has issued a decision on bankruptcy, a declaration of bankruptcy, it will, of course, incredibly damage you and reduce your reputation, it will endanger your business. And the victim in this case, of course, is the very company that was damaged in this way. The fact that someone filed this false insolvency motion against her with false evidence cannot be seriously claimed to be a victim. These groups simply need to be prosecuted, they need to maintain their rights in criminal prosecution, but that's all. There's no way to pass them off as victims. After all, citizens are dissatisfied with the fact that normal corrupters are unable to condemn this state in due course, or at least decide. That means the proceedings go on for six years if the person was caught red-handed, and the lawyers are using a billion different excuses and tools to avoid prosecution. I certainly won't be the one to defend the current unbalanced state of affairs that is in favor of those who have enough money to pay for any attorneys.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Veselý will be ready. Real notes, I recall. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u30	Thank you for the floor. We're talking about a situation where someone consciously presents false evidence, and that's what the lawyer does. The client can do it himself, and at that point, he'll be impunity, but his attorney has to forge the evidence that he'll subsequently knowingly present to the court, or he'll have the expert forge the evidence or something. Just pretending that this is okay, I find it completely absurd.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u31	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Veselý, and Mr Benda, will then also respond with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I originally didn't want to be involved in the discussion at all. But by the pirát, constantly attacking lawyers as a state and making them something that's wrong, that cheats primarily, that ruins everything for us, that creates criminal activity - I must, colleagues, fundamentally reject it! You can't be serious! You know how all the totalitarians start? All totalitarians begin by attacking lawyers. Lawyers are very uncomfortable because they stand for those who want to reduce totalitarianism. So you start lawyers, then you go to the D.A. and then you go to the judge. Pirate colleagues through Mr President, please stop defaming lawyers! The position of persons prosecuted in criminal proceedings is far more complex than the position of law enforcement authorities. They don't have the resources to get evidence to get wiretaps to do house searches. [[He speaks loudly, strongly.]] They have no such option in the vast majority of cases. And their only option is process defense. And any reduction in the possibility of procedural defense means that we're criminalizing an ordinary person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u33	Thank you. There have been some factual remarks, then they have gradually disappeared, so at the moment the situation is such that I ask Mr Benda with a factual remark. Then, Mrs Válková with a factual point, then President Chvojka with a factual point. And I'll ask everyone in the room for some peace! Thank you. Mainly to the left!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u34	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank my predecessor very much, because I think he has summed up a lot. Again to Mr Ferjenčík through Mr President. Firstly, it is not true that this concerns only lawyers. Anyone who brings false evidence, even of course the person will be criminally indictable, there was a certain inaccuracy. And I think there's still some crazy controversy going on here about whether or not we want to allow it - and my colleague Michálek is quoting it to us today and every day - if we want to allow false evidence to be presented. It's not like anybody in the real world is defending that. No one really defends, no one says it's right to present false evidence to the court. So please, let's just not argue with that! It came out of the doctrine that the court can't be fooled, we have the Supreme Court's decision. We now believe that it is possible to deceive the court. I think the court can, of course, be deceived in some cases. And I didn't argue that it was wrong, and that it was even supposed to be criminal to present false evidence. What we're talking about, if we make a special deed of seduction to this crime of any nature, when, as I was telling you, we only have seduction for those things that aren't otherwise a crime. And here we are introducing something completely new. And then we're talking about the circumstances and the extent to which wiretaps can be put on, and if we really think this is such a serious crime that we want to go to lower rates than we normally do. So please, just so we don't confuse it and say that someone here defends the right of anyone to submit false, false evidence that the court wants to confuse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u35	Thank you. Another factual point, Mrs. Professor, Mrs. Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u36	That's right, I'm an MP here, really. I beg you, I will use this factual remark to put in a good word for us to proceed to the third vote, i.e. at the third reading, not to the third, but to the vote. At the same time, I would like to point out that we are now getting into this emotional spiral where we are unfairly attacking each other. I've been listening to everything, and I really can't be suspected of being here at the speaker's desk once saying that I'd be rooting for every speech, the idea of a pirate-party colleague's proposal. But I am trying to be fair, and many of their proposals are very well and factually, unlike other political parties, argued. And in today's speech, which Mr Michálek had here, so maybe I'm taking his factual point now, he also clearly said that he trusts it, at least I understand it that way, and I think you've heard it with my own ears that most lawyers are perfectly fine. So I don't understand the populist one at all - excuse me, my fellow speaker - the populist outburst that there's always an attack by lawyers at the beginning of every totalitarianism. This isn't about defending the professional status of lawyers, it's about a new legal regulation that would make sure that our trials are fair. So let's not bring that really political bullshit in here, with forgiveness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u37	Thank you. Another factual point by President Chvojka, then President Kalousek, with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u38	Thank you for the floor. Well, I have to stand up for my colleagues and respond, and he beat me to it. I also wanted to respond to my colleague Michálek through the President. Well, Mr. Michálek, through the President, sometimes some attorney, as I've been watching you here for a year, had to provide you with some very bad legal service. Because it's true, and he said it to a colleague, Ondřej Veselý, whenever we're discussing something here, or on the grounds of an constitutional law committee that has something to do with law enforcement, you're going after these lawyers, you're chasing them. You're blaming them for defending the accused, and you're already taking the accused as a dirty suspect and a convicted man. I don't like this attitude. And to tell you the truth, if I were a pirát voter, I would be very disappointed in this approach! I thought you were a party that somehow opposed state interference e.g. Into a lawyer's secret. Or the duty of confidentiality of a tax advisor. And whenever there's a point like that on this House's agenda, you support it, and in my opinion, it's not good. So I don't understand. If a lawyer has harmed you in the past, please handle it through the Czech Bar Association, through disciplinary proceedings, he will certainly receive some disciplinary punishment. But please stop taking your anger out on some lawyer who may have hurt you once. But really, they're different lawyers, bad guys, good guys, but you guys are all over them like they're in class. Therefore, I respond to Mrs. Válková. I think Ondra Veselý's speech was very good. And we're just supposed to talk about the crime and the new fact, and not about what a client is, or the accused, or the defendant, pardoning the bastard, because he took the Michálek of taking a lawyer, and most of the time he's a rich man, so he took the liberty of marrying a better lawyer. Friends, we shouldn't be talking like this, and this is not how a pirate should speak in my opinion, who, on the contrary, should respect the freedom and right of every human individual in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u39	Your time. Thank you. President Kalousek gave us some light on the discussion, so there are more factual points. First Chairman Kalousek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u40	Thank you for the floor. Just a brief response to Mrs Válková. In my opinion, the previous speaker, Mr Veselý, did not speak populistly. On the contrary, he quite courageously defied populists, defying the populist view that everyone accused is a vulgar suspect, unless it is Prime Minister Babiš. And we just don't want to accept that the defense is part of the prosecution, which was the popular principle of totalitarian times. And the hints of how the individual totalitarians begin, Mr Veselý here pointed out, pointing them out correctly. The hints are simply in public space, and they are far from just a lawyer's profession. So I would like to thank Mr. Veselý for the MP's Club TOP 09 and say that he spoke out of his mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u41	Thank you for keeping time. I'm gonna cut it off for a while. I'm gonna read the apologies. Mr Klaus apologizes from today's meeting from 12.45 to 17.00 for working reasons and for Friday's meeting from day to day for working reasons. He also apologizes to Vice-President Tomáš Hanzel from 11.00 to 12.30 for work reasons. And we have a factual remark from Mr Výborný, Mr Michálek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I couldn't do it. I want to respond to Mrs Válková. Indeed, the thing that is expert, so here to talk about some political crap from my colleague Veselý, it does not really seem reasonable to me. That wasn't political bullshit. And as far as the state of law is concerned, we see it here. Yes, it's like my colleague Chvojka said. I think that as we have, of course, better and maybe worse judges, we have better and worse lawyers, but en bloc considers someone who somehow goes against the system or is being abused in some way, I find it uncalled for. And really what my colleague Veselý said was quite appropriate, because in this case it is necessary to stand up for the state of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u43	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue the debate with factual remarks. I thank my colleague Excellent for keeping time. Now, colleague Jakub Michálek, Dominik Feri will prepare for a factual remark as well as Ivan Bartoš and Helena Válková. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u44	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer comment on the substance of the matter which I have already described in quite detail. I'm already going to respond to the previous speakers, and it's going to be my last reaction. It will be an argumentative response, because the way the debate is going on here is called the argument of a straw dummy. At first, some straw shot will be exposed to the fact that Jakub Michálek is rejecting the state of law as a whole, and I have made it clear that the vast majority of lawyers are doing their profession properly and honestly, and I think that this is only a small part, and I think that this is a problem and that is what we should be dealing with. So I'm going to ask that I not be moved by a straw man in this argument that I want to eliminate the state of law as a whole, for God's sake, that this will create some new totalitarianism here. I also did not say that every totalitarianism in Czech Republic began with the participation of ČSSD in government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u45	I also thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Dominik Feri point of fact and President Ivan Bartoš will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm gonna try to set one thing straight first, because it's actually done a little binary. It seems almost that at present no one to whom a bullying insolvency proposal is to be applied has any way of defending himself, and when you look into the insolvency law, it is quite clear that it is possible for an insolvency court to reject an insolvency proposal for obvious reasons. It is even possible for the plaintiff to impose a fine of up to half a million, and the moment he does, he can't file another insolvency motion after another six months if he doesn't file an advance. So, when colleague Michálek mentioned this here through the President, he should also mention that there is already a form of defence. But what we're talking about here, and the debate is completely legitimate, if this defense and the possibility of protection are sufficient. Yes, we can talk about that because it's tightening criminal repression. But we really should talk about it. And the debate here at first reading wasn't adequate. The fact that we're going to hold a seminar here, which, as I recall, wasn't exactly an initiative by the Ministry, but it was an initiative by Members of the Constitutional Legal Committee, which is also not enough discussion. I mentioned it once before in my first performance. Please, it's a very important thing. We are adding a new deed to the Criminal Code and please let us discuss these matters in the future. We will have a proposal that has been signed by more than 70 Members, which also regulates a very significant criminal code, we will be discussing this for a long time, we do not even prevent the extension of time limits. But the traditional way of doing the previous minister's work is something that shouldn't be a standard for such a serious matter, it's very unfortunate, and I'm keeping my fingers crossed by the minister so that we don't get these things out of plenary, because, as you can see, the debate here is definitely not relevant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u47	Thank you for keeping the time, and now my colleague Bartoš has withdrawn his application for the debate. Mrs Helena Válková, with a factual point and a colleague Ferjenčík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u48	Thank you. I only wanted to apologize to Mr Veselé through yours, Mr Vice-President. I don't think it's happening to me, at least I don't feel like I'm getting knocked down by discussion, and I certainly didn't think it would happen to me in seduction to crimes that are all kinds of false accusations and statements. Of course, political bullshit is not a dictionary that suits me, and it probably doesn't suit any Members and Members, so I am very sorry. However, I do not think that this was Mr Veselý's speech, your way, professionally focused, but each of us has the right to do so. I insist on my position. I think obstruction of justice will be better if we still have the opportunity to strike those who lead to perjury and perjury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Ferjenčík's point of fact is now made, Mr Válek and Mr Blažek's colleague. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u50	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond to that comment about freedom. We, of course, support freedom, but one of the biggest obstacles to freedom in this country is the absolute inexhaustibility of law, the way in which lawsuits are brought here, the fact that it simply isn't convicted of the obvious frauds, and that it just takes so long for a normal person to be protected, that people don't even go into dispute anymore, because they don't believe that the judicial machinery can even find justice. And that is a huge barrier to freedom in this country. And pretending that the inevitability of law in our country is not a problem and that anyone trying to contribute to making it a little bigger here is interfering with some basic principles here, it seems completely impossible to me, at all, does not correspond to the real situation of our judiciary. And I'm stressing that this is about cases where, for example, a person in civil proceedings, a perfectly honest businessman, loses millions because someone faked something here, and when it happens, all they do is stop the proceedings. It's not like it's a victim's protection. And we want to protect those victims of crime from bullying. After all, this is the second aspect of this law to be considered. We have absolutely nothing against lawyers as a condition, but we have something against people who deliberately for the sake of some benefit of their or their client forgery evidence and present it to the court. That just doesn't feel right, that's what we're defining ourselves against.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now President Bělobrádek's factual comment and I am still registering the application of Mr Válek and I have registered the priority right of the President of the Social Democracy Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u52	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, it is not the first time, but I do not feel like an advocate of social democracy, but let me point out by your means, Mr President, to my colleague Michálek that social democracy was abolished in 1938 and, therefore, it could be very difficult for me to be in government on the rise of Nazism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u53	Thank you for the factual remark, which was indeed a factual remark, not a speech. Now, therefore, with priority rights, the chairman of the Social Democracy Club Jan Chvojka and a colleague of Válek will prepare himself, then a colleague of Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I thank the President of the KDU-ČSL for being a good lawyer. Yes, that's right. Not all totalitarianism was related to the ČSSD, but it may be that any totalitarianism may be related to some strange proposals of some parties and movements. I would like to respond to my colleague Ferjenčík through the Vice-President. I think we understand each other. I think neither of us wants to steal, cheat in the Czech Republic. To steal here, to cheat lawyers, or to help steal and cheat. However, you showed in your performance that you don't understand this thing or that we're both completely different. You said - the obvious fraud, that here in the Czech Republic are not to walk around the Czech Republic by obvious frauds, which we know are frauds, and the trial takes a very long time, etc. I think he's gonna tell the court if this guy's a fraud or not. And we've had a lot of cases, a lot of cases, and it's involved various, let's say, municipal politicians, where the man was a manifest fraud, a manifest thief, a manifest criminal - and what happened? Then, sometime on the sixth page of the newspaper after two years, they wrote about him being unjustly accused, and without pomp, unlike the one with the pomp, when they wrote about it, he was acquitted. Well, the problem is, and that has to do with the very interesting debate, my colleague, about the advocacy. You said: the problem of the Czech Republic - and I agree with you - is the unenforceability of law. This means that the law has been enforced for a long time, that criminal proceedings here take a shorter time than civil proceedings. They both last very long. But at the same time a colleague of Michálek, and I apologize, perhaps I will not provoke his reaction again, he said, "And they are marrying a lawyer! Plus, the rich guys are marrying the best lawyer ever! And that takes a very long time to prosecute, because they're marrying an attorney. As for Christ's sake, my colleagues, my colleague Veselý, have already said - I don't know what President Bartoš is laughing about... Well, it's just the defendant's right to marry the lawyer. It's the right to defend yourself by any legal means permitted. It may be a mistake that everything lasts a long time, but it's not the lawyer's fault. It's the way we set those laws, and I'm sure we can change that. Fellow pirates laugh like I'm right. Let's change the penal code, let's change the civil order, let's debate it. The Minister hears it. These things have been going on for a very long time. It's been a very long time for 20 years. And I'm in favour of it taking a shorter time. But I am against one thing, in which we disagree - in some way, to sharpen the rights here, but also the obligations of lawyers, because attorney confidentiality is the basic duty of an attorney. Otherwise, I agree to speed up the trial, whether criminal or civil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u55	Thank you, Prime Minister Chvojka. He made a factual comment by his colleague Ferjenčík. So I will ask my colleague Blažek and his colleague Blažek to be patient. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u56	Thank you for the floor. Or maybe the impostor gets an amnesty from the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u57	Thank you. Now, Mr Válek, with a proper application for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to sign up for a technical remark, and then I thought, since we're discussing how we're supposed to follow the rules of law, it would be unfair something that isn't a technical remark, to sign up as a technical one and not wait. First of all, I wanted to apologize, if I started the debate, it wasn't my intention. I've been a forensic expert for 15 years in criminal cases and civil disputes. And I have to say, every time I get the defendant's material, in some cases, I have a huge problem keeping internal justice inside me, because unfortunately, I'm uneducated as a lawyer, because it seems pretty clear to me that this guy is a crook. And even trying to write an expert opinion really objectively and not being influenced by what it says in those materials is sometimes very problematic. And whoever you're doing forensics, I think you've met with it. Then I come to the courthouse and sometimes I see that things turn out completely different, and sometimes I think, damn it, you... you can't say those words around here. I'm sorry I even had them in my head. You actually wanted to judge a man, and you wanted to replace a trial. He's the accused, but only the accused. And the trial is to decide if he's being charged. Yes, the principle of a strong society, a democratic society, and I hope we both are, and I hope that all of us want to do our utmost to protect the weak. And the victims are the weak. Therefore, they should be protected by a high-quality court, top judges, excellent prosecutors, state apparatus, police. The whole system should protect them when the defendant is on the other side, looking for evidence, etc. in a criminal dispute. It's probably a little different in civil matters. I'm not a judge. I mean, I'm not an attorney, I don't have an education. However, the cases of those accused, who are clearly guilty in the public's eyes, must not, in my opinion, tempt us to flatten the rule. It makes clear to you the guilty, who are yet only accused, can prove innocent. Those clear victims, which are yet victims, may prove not to be victims. And I would point out again, although it is cheap maybe, but I will do it again, some of the trials that have happened in past regimes and in the previous regime, when the people walked on the street with their passwords and demanded the strictest punishments for these criminals who were convicted before the lawsuit began. I'm not even saying the penal code is okay. I don't understand professionally. I follow the arguments very closely. Solid, correct arguments from the experts sitting here. And I will try to vote really in this case according to my best knowledge and conscience. I have been honest in consulting colleagues from the Law Faculty from Brno. I've been honest in consulting all the lawyers I know, and I've been asking about their opinions. And I absolutely like and agree, and I very much support what was said here in the previous article: Let us discuss how to speed up a fair trial - if possible, I do not know. How to simplify laws so that being rich does not affect the outcome of the trial. If possible, believe me, I'll be the first to sacrifice every spare minute to help. But let's talk about that now. This, I think, is the merit of the matter and I'm glad it was said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u59	Thank you, my colleague Válek. Now, my colleague Blažek. And before he approaches the microphone, allow me to state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. My colleague Jan Skopeček apologizes within 13 hours. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u60	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I actually volunteered to respond to the first performance of my colleague Michálek. So first, he had more. Well, it's probably the age difference. Mr. Michálek has been reading to us here, and I do not argue that there are many legal standards that protect us from the abuse of the power of law enforcement authorities. But as my gray hair grows, my life has taught me that legislation is not enough. In order to apply this, another law enforcement authority must be another prosecutor who will prosecute the prosecutor who has committed some kind of abuse of power, which is not happening at all or at least, and it is almost impossible for something like this to happen, that there is simply and well what I would call state solidarity. And that must be something. There's got to be somebody left over or something to do with it. Some illegal wiretaps, etc. This does not affect one another, and I fear that they will never be affected. [[10.50 hours]] The other one. The colleague argued - Austria, Slovakia, they have it. You know, that's what happens in Austria and Slovakia when the town of Olomouc is not on their territory. I would also like to strengthen the state's attorney. It wasn't for us to have the High Attorney General in Olomouc. The case of Zadeh has fallen. Who's doing this? Of course they did. In Austria and Slovakia, is it possible for one state prosecutor to occupy the central authorities through territorial jurisdiction, not a single sentence in five years, and even a false press conference at which there was no truth or a good day? And that it was an extremely ugly day of coincidence. Is this possible in Austria and Slovakia? It's not. That's what they're doing, criminal acts like that! The third case in recent times, and we're back in Olomouc, and this is the case of the so-called Tuhý who moved this House. I don't want to go back to texting Tesco SV or anything, but one thing happened. Those gentlemen in Olomouc, still the same, were unable to prove any criminal activity to the police president, so they just threw him to the press, which means they commissioned Mr. Komárek to stand somewhere and say what he said. And that is another abuse of power that is a working method in Olomouc. Those gentlemen think that if they don't have evidence, they'll just hand it over to the press and destroy this person in a different way. I refuse, as long as people like Dr. Šereda, Dr. Bajgar and some others have a piece of state power to hand them over to the experts. I refuse! They're taking advantage of power now, and imagine what's going to happen. I'm in Moravia - I'm Moravák as a log, but being an expert there after passing this law, I'll never, ever, ever, ever be an expert. If I don't comply, I can expect them to check my apartment the next day at 6:00 in the morning. They're thinking clearly. Whoever doesn't comply with them, the seed! So that's the basic reason why I'm absolutely against any way that we're supposed to be in this law, strengthening the power of prosecutors. They're using her, just the one they have today. So there's no way I can vote for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u61	I thank my colleague Blažek. I note that there has been another apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, namely, my colleague Holík from 11 to 12 o'clock from today's meeting for work reasons. This has exhausted the applications for the debate. I ask if the rapporteur still wants to speak in the debate. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to direct you slowly to the vote, but let me also draw your attention to the legislative technical regulation of one amendment, in accordance with Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). I propose this legislative amendment to Amendment D1 in Houses press number 79/3, where the words "in Section 34 para. 1' shall be replaced by "Article 34 (1) '. 3'. Reason. The newly proposed version of letter C refers to § 34 para. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 1, as mistakenly stated in Houses press number 79/3. In agreement with the legislation which has prepared this, this is a legislative technical amendment to the amendment by Mr Petr Sadovský. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u63	I thank Mr Ondráček for the correct reading of the legislative technical remarks in the debate. I'm asking who's reporting for the debate. If no one, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for an interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? Please, Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. The debate on this bill was very detailed in several rounds. I may just recall, though this may seem different from the debate that has taken place, the proposal is far from merely about the crime of obstruction of justice, virtually. about that one sentence in a series of sentences about seduction to obstruction of justice, but there are a number of other things being dealt with. Thank you very much for the work carried out on this proposal on the committee, thank you for the committee's views on this proposal. I believe, despite the rather turbulent debate that has taken place here, that the proposal as a whole is not actually controversial, and that the two controversial things that are there, that is, the question of seduction to obstruction of justice, as I say, one warm sentence, of two sentences, and the issue of wiretaps, can be solved in principle by very simply two votes, as proposed in the procedure. I very much hope that you will support this proposal. At the same time, although I am referring to individual amendments, when they are voted on, my position is neutral in both controversial cases, because I do not think that these are the things on which the amendment stands and falls. It contains other important things that need to be adopted, the issue of fighting and punishing terrorism, the issue of anti-money laundering measures, etc. Thank you so much for your attention. I am very much asking for the support of this proposal, and I am very much asking that we vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u65	I thank the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek for his final word. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments. I will ask the rapporteur to inform us of the voting procedure, to present the various amendments and to comment on them before the vote, to give the opinion of the committee, and I will always ask the Minister for the same. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u66	Thank you, Mr President. The procedure was set at the 19th meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee on 7 June 2018. It has been going on for quite a long time, here at this counter I sat three times with three ministers of justice, and I must say that the middle one was the most sympathetic, at least in appearance. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Let me introduce you to the procedure. The Constitutional Committee recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to vote in the third reading on the proposals submitted to the draft law pursuant to House press 79/3 in the following order: First, proposals for technical adaptations under Section 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which I have now presented in the third reading, that is to say the adaptation of Mr Sadovský, then the proposal C1. If proposal C1 is approved, proposals A1 to A3, B1 in relation to obstruction of justice, B3, B5 in relation to obstruction of justice and C3 are further unvoting. If proposal C1 is not approved, we will vote on proposal C3, the vote C3 is unvoteable because it is factually identical to the proposal A2. Proposal A1, proposal B3, proposal B1, is voteable regardless of the result of the vote on C1, proposal A3. If A3 is approved, the B5 is no longer an unvoting proposal in relation to obstruction of justice. The eighth vote would then be proposal B6 and B7, which are both voteable regardless of the vote on C1. The ninth vote would be on B2, B4 and B5, all three voting will be possible regardless of the result of the vote on C1. The C2 proposal, once again, is voteable regardless of the vote on C1, the D1 proposal as the eleventh vote, which is also voteable regardless of the result of the C1 vote. The 12th vote then the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u67	Thank you. Thank you. Does anyone else have a motion for a voting procedure? It's not like that. The procedure is not the easiest. Even if no one checks in, I'll have the procedure voted out. It's the 113 vote I started, and I'm asking who's in favour of the procedure proposed by the rapporteur. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 113, from 168 in favour of 159, against no one. The procedure has been approved. Before we vote, I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Minister Antonín Staněk apologizes from today's meeting from 11 a.m. to the end of the day, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková from 14 a.m. to 16 a.m. and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš from this morning's meeting and his apology is added to the part of the afternoon. So many apologies. [[11.00 hours]] We can therefore proceed to the vote. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your I.D. cards to determine the exact presence of the vote. Once the number of applications has been settled, we will decide on the proposal for legislative technical amendments that are necessary so that we can vote on the relevant amendment D. So, I think we're clear. I have begun voting number 114 and I ask who is in favour of adopting legislative technical adaptations read at third reading. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 114 of the 161 Member present for 161, against no one. Legally, the technical modifications have been approved. So we're going to move on from one point to the next. rapporteur, first proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u68	So the first proposal is proposal C1. It is Mr Marek Benda's proposal, the total release of the offence of obstruction of justice. Opinion of the Constitutional Committee - non-advisor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u69	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 115 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 115 from 162 for 53, against 101 Members. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u70	Since proposal C1 has not been approved, we will vote in the order of proposal C3. [[President: Opinion?]] I'll always say what it's all about in a nutshell. It is Mr Chvojka's amendment - the release of seduction to obstruction of justice. The opinion of the Constitutional Committee on C3 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u71	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Okay. We will decide in the 116 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 116 out of 162 present for 113, against 35. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u72	The next proposal is proposal A1, which is Mr Chvojka's proposal. It's back to obstruction of justice, it's his specification of the declaration of authenticity. [[President: Opinion?]] A1, the opinion of the Constitutional Committee - non-advisor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u73	Mr. Secretary? [[Opinion disagreeable.]] I started voting number 117. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 117 of 163 present for 55, against 96. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u74	Another proposal, fifth vote, proposal B3 by Mrs Válková. It's a modification of obstruction, documentary evidence with substantial significance. Opinion of the Constitutional Committee - recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u75	Mr. Secretary? [[Opinion in favour.]] I started voting number 118. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 118 of 163 present for 157, versus 4. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u76	The sixth vote is Amendment B1, once again from Mrs Válková, on obstruction of justice, effective regret. The opinion of the Constitutional Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u77	Mr. Secretary? [[The opinion shall be agreed.]] I've started voting number 119, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 119 from 163 for 162 Members present. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u78	The next proposal is Mr Chvojka A3's proposal, and this is an exclusion of obstruction with the possibility of using wiretapping. The opinion of the Constitutional Committee has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u79	Mr. Secretary? [[The position is neutral.]] I've started voting number 120, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 120 of 163 present for 117, against 12. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u80	The eighth vote is the proposals B6 and B7 by Mr Marek Benda. It's about declaring judgments. The opinion of the Constitutional Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u81	Mr. Secretary? [[Opinion in favour.]] I've started voting number 121. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 121 of 163 present for 162, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u82	The ninth vote is proposals B2, B4 and B5, which are basically also legislative technical adaptations. [[President: Opinion?]] The opinion of the Constitutional Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u83	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 122 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 122 of 163 present for 162, no one opposes. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u84	The next proposal is Mr Benda's proposal C2 concerning corruption, respectively. providing a bribe. The opinion of the Constitutional Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u85	Mr. Secretary? [[Opinion disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 123 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 123 of 163 present for 47, against 100. The motion was not accepted. One last suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u86	Mr Petr Sadovský proposal concerning limitation and subject to an adjustment. The opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u87	Mr. Secretary? [[Affirmative opinion.]] I've started voting number 124 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 124 of 163 present for 158, against no one. All the proposals have been exhausted. Isn't that right, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u88	Yes, we can vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-001-114.u89	So we can proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, and some other laws, according to the House press 79, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I've started voting number 125, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 125 of 163 present for 114, against 35. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to Minister Jan Kněžínek, thank you to the rapporteur Zdeněk Ondráček and I finish point 114. [[11.10 hours]] Let me further state an apology. For work reasons, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová apologizes from part of the meeting from 11.30 to 16.00. We'll continue with the third reading, point 110. I understand that you are all interested in the amendment to the Criminal Code, but I would still like the debate on this subject to be over and quiet in the House. We will continue to discuss the point.
