ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u1	56. Draft by Members of Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Dominik Feri, Miroslav Kalousek, Helena Langšádlová, Karel Schwarzenberg, František Vácha, Vlastimil Válek, Marek Výborný and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 247/1995 Coll., on the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic and on the amendment and addition of some other laws, as amended, and some other laws /German press 217/ - first reading Thank you, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, for being at the rapporteur's table, thank you to Mr Strýček, who is rapporteur for the first reading, and I ask that the proposal put forward by Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, the appellants' representative. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u2	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, may I present to you the draft law amending Act No. 247/1995 Coll., on the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic and amending and supplementing certain other laws, as amended, i.e. the House Press 217. This House press, this bill presents a total of 29 Members from five MPs. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] The main purpose and aim of the amendment is to introduce in the Czech electoral system the possibility of distance voting, i.e. so-called. correspondence elections. Election law in general is one of the fundamental rights enshrined in the legislation of the highest power, both by the Constitution of the Czech Republic and by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The Charter adopts the right to vote as a fundamental constitutional right to enable citizens to participate in public administration by a free choice of their representatives. Election law is understood as individual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u3	Madam, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. I call on those who are discussing a subject other than the electoral law to do so in the foyer and let the plaintiffs' representative present the bill in a dignified environment. This is a proposal which has its constitutional convention, which is subject to Art. 41 Constitutions of the Czech Republic, and relations with the Senate in this respect can be significantly complicated or also good, but we do not know yet. I would like all the discussions that are not relevant to this to be outside the O.R. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Election law is understood as individual. Everyone has the opportunity to decide whether to participate in the elections. The State is a guarantor and a tool to protect the exercise of this right. The prerequisite for a functional electoral law fulfilling the set principles should therefore be a structure that allows the elections to actually participate and does not create procedural or other barriers to its application, such as territorial barriers. However, there are procedural, but also financial barriers that make their exercise of electoral rights very difficult or completely impossible for Czech citizens who live abroad during elections. Although it is now allowed by law to vote abroad in elections to the Chamber of Deputies and in the election of the President of the Republic, in the electoral rooms, which are usually set up at the representative offices, the possibility of voting abroad only at the representative offices is criticised, in particular with regard to the considerable distances for voters on their way to the representative office, especially in the larger states such as for example. The United States of America, Canada, Russia, etc., but also, of course, in smaller ones, where the voter often has to travel twice more, when applying for a special list and then voting itself. That is why we propose to introduce the possibility of a correspondence choice that would remove these barriers. The option to vote correspondent is traditional e.g. It's in the United States of America, Canada or Australia. In these countries, by coincidence, there is a strong representation of our fellow citizens. This is all the less acceptable to me is the situation of Czech electoral law, which creates for them, without the possibility of a correspondence election, factual technical barriers to participation in elections. Let me give you an example. The journey can often be hundreds and thousands of kilometres in these countries, so this means, for example, buying a ticket and, as I mentioned, two times, because it is therefore necessary to attend the representative office first for the registration of the application and then for the vote itself. And in elections like presidential elections, of course, they're two-way, which means twice the way. The fact that it is not an unconventional institute demonstrates that in the European Union it allows its citizens to vote in correspondence with 24 countries, such as the European Union. Germany, Great Britain, Italy, Spain or Austria, citizens of Estonia, Lithuania, Slovenia or Slovakia also have the same option. In the world in a number of countries that I have mentioned, this form of vote has been working safely for decades. We propose to introduce a correspondence option in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, in the elections to the presidential elections and in the elections to the European Parliament, but here with the exception that elections to the European Parliament will not take place at the representative offices. The main aim of the petitioners is to facilitate voting not only for Czech citizens living abroad, but also for those who are studying there, for example. Even in various institutions, they represent the Czech Republic, and then they do not have the opportunity to participate in the elections. The proposed amendment envisages maintaining the possibility of issuing electoral certificates for voting in places outside the electoral district, where the electoral voter is held on a special electoral list. The possibility of a personal vote in the electoral rooms in the Czech Republic and the relevant representative offices is also maintained. There would be an extension of the possibility of exercising the right to vote. The proposed legislation does not introduce the possibility of a correspondence vote in elections to the Senate. In this context, it would be necessary to address the issue of the voter's membership in the Senate constituency, which would entail a greater administrative burden in determining the electoral district, and further restrictions would apply to citizens who do not reside in the territory of the Czech Republic. Due to the time constraints, no choice could be made for the second round of Senate elections. The impossibility of a correspondence vote in this case is given by time limits which are limited to 90 days under the current electoral procedure for the entire electoral process. Introduction of correspondence voting e.g. In the second round of the Senate elections, it would assume an extension of the electoral process so that the distribution of ballots to voters can be ensured between the first and second round of the elections. Likewise, in the event of a reduction in the time limits for complementary and repeated elections and repeated votes, it would not be technically possible to secure a correspondence vote by an organizational method. Providing a correspondence vote in the second round of the presidential election is done in the proposal by delivering electoral ballots to voters, i.e. the whole set, twice, for both rounds of the presidential election. The correspondence vote will be subject to the voter's request for this method of voting, which must be addressed to the representative office where it is held on the electoral list. It may request this method of voting in person or in writing, accompanied by an officially certified signature of the voter, by means of an electronic signature or electronic form sent by means of a data box. The representative office of the electorate shall issue ballots in person or in its own hands, and the electorate shall then send the selected or modified ballot to the address of the representative office, which shall be prescribed in advance on the delivery envelope. When sending the ballots back, the voter will consider whether to send the delivery envelope in a recommended way or in a normal manner. Recommended service abroad could cause problems in some countries that do not know this particular way of delivery. The delegation of received envelopes to the Special District Election Commission is already provided by the representative office itself. [[16.50 hours]] The selection itself looks like this according to the design. Along with the ballots, the official and delivery envelope, the electorate is sent an identification card, which contains pre-filled information on the constituency or the electoral region and the electorate completed the information necessary to identify it by a special district electoral commission, which will then make an entry on the extract from the special list. On the ballot, the electorate will confirm, with his signature under the pre-printed statement, that he is a citizen of the Czech Republic on the day of the vote, which is practical especially for voters residing abroad who vote in correspondence, because there is a possibility that they have lost this citizenship since they applied for entry in the special electoral list of voters with the representative office and demonstrated citizenship of the Czech Republic. The voter will be informed by an information leaflet about the method of correspondence vote. The whole process of correspondence voting is adapted to preserve the fundamental principles of electoral law, in particular the principle of secrecy and equality of voting. The secret of the vote will be guaranteed by a separate envelope in which the ballot will be sealed. This sealed envelope is placed in the delivery envelope along with the identification card. The delivery envelope must be signed in the words of the correspondence option. After the envelope arrives at the representative office, it will be kept in a place which will be reserved for this purpose by the head of the representative office. Records are kept on all envelopes delivered. The Special District Election Commission will open delivery envelopes which have been transmitted to the Special District Election Commission by the competent representative office after the vote has been completed in the Czech Republic before the start of the vote census. According to the attached electoral identification card, the special district electoral commission will make a record of this voter's statement on the fact that the voter voted in correspondence. The special district electoral commission will also record in which electoral region or constituency the electoral voter has voted, the identification card will be attached to this statement and the official envelope will be placed in the ballot box. If the special district electoral commission, according to the entry in the extract from the special list, finds that the electoral voter has already voted in the polling room, i.e. not remotely, but personally, he will postpone the delivery envelope along with the official envelope, which he will tape to preserve the secrecy of the vote, and an identification note indicating the reason for such a procedure for the electoral documentation. During the debate on the introduction of correspondence elections, we often encounter an argument, respectively. concern that there should be no manipulation of the will of the electorate and freedom of correspondence elections guaranteed. To this end, it is also possible to introduce in the future a special qualified nature of the offence, which will follow up on the existing legislation contained in § 351 of Law No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, containing a criminal offence of obstruction of preparation and the course of elections and referendums. I merely point out that our proposal is not subject to this adjustment. I refer to it as an option in case of really great concern just by manipulating the will of a voter. Dear colleagues, the public is, of course, calling for the introduction of a distance election. Together with other colleagues, most of them were members of parliament or party experts who deal with the issue of this form of election, I took over less than three weeks ago a joint statement by the authors of petitions for the introduction of a system of correspondence or electronic elections for citizens of the Czech Republic living abroad. These petitions are signed by Čech living outside the Czech Republic in Europe and other countries as well as by leading Czech scientists and academics who are currently working abroad. For those of you who could not participate in the handover, I have several sheets of these statements available, and I am happy to provide them to you, of course. I also have a poll of public opinion prepared by the Median for Institute for Democracy 21, which shows that three quarters of Čech would be able to vote in correspondence both to the compatriots abroad and to all who are outside their permanent residence at the time of the elections. Our proposal therefore envisages the introduction of a correspondence election for people abroad, but, of course, I often hear reservations that it would be appropriate to extend it to citizens in the Czech Republic, or to replace the system of electoral certificates in this way. However, this does not include our proposal. We've limited ourselves only to foreign countries. I must mention that the Government has given this proposal a neutral position, and I am therefore looking forward to the debate. I believe that this proposal is of great importance to the Czech Republic and its citizens, not only those tens and even hundreds of thousands of fellow citizens living abroad, but for all of us, can increase people's trust in representative democracy. And I believe that after many years of merely debating the introduction of a correspondence election, we could finally move on to the real step of its introduction, because we are really one of the last ones who still do not have it. I would therefore like to ask you to support our proposal, under which Members across the political spectrum are signed, and to release it for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u5	Thank you, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. And now I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jiří Strýček to take the floor. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u6	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as my previous speaker has been told here, the main idea of the parliamentary proposal is to introduce the possibility of a correspondence election of our citizens from abroad in elections to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and in elections to the European Parliament. The proposal envisages maintaining the vote at the representative offices abroad as well as voting on the electoral card. In addition, it introduces the possibility of a correspondence vote, at the request made in person, in writing with an officially certified signature, via an electronic signature or a data box. The vote itself should then take place with the help of an identification card, ballots and two envelopes inserted into each other and sent out. For elections to the European Parliament, the proposal introduces a correspondence vote for citizens located in the Czech Republic. Providing a correspondence vote in the second round of the presidential election is proposed by the delivery of both sets of ballots for both rounds of the presidential election, it is directly to the voters at once before the first round. The proposed amendment, as has already been said, does not introduce the possibility of a correspondence vote in the Senate elections. There refers to an inadequate administrative burden in determining the constituency and the electoral district. Also in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies held following the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies, the proposal does not accept the possibility of a correspondence vote. In general, the Government intends to enable the correspondence voting method to be supported, and the introduction of this option is also one of the commitments contained in the Government's programming declaration. However, the parliamentary proposal, as it has been tabled, suffers from a number of shortcomings which I would like to personally address in a detailed debate. For these reasons, the Government gives a neutral opinion on the proposal. The Organizing Committee has proposed a constitutional committee as a guarantee, and I would like to join the debate. Well, I already checked in at the table, but I guess they didn't put me there...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u7	You are logged in, Mr rapporteur. I'm counting on you. You have the same right of priority as Mr Pikal, but he does not exercise the right of priority, so you will be the first in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u8	So once again - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. This House has met the proposal for a correspondence vote several times in the past, mostly unsuccessfully. The proposals were not passed at first reading, even at third reading. So this law is basically nothing new on this House's land. I would like to make two fundamental points. Personally, I am not a supporter of such fundamental laws as electoral laws to be applied in the form of parliamentary proposals. I think that these are completely groundbreaking laws that should be debated on a wider platform, and the outcome of these laws should be objective and indisputable elections. On the other hand, I am, of course, stressing this, as has already been said, is in the Government's programming statement, so what I am going to say here is essentially not against the method of correspondence voting, but rather I will address the material that has been put forward here by this parliamentary proposal, which really shows the shortcomings that should not be in this law. [[17,00 hours]] If I take this generally, I would like to factor out the following proposal to this Member. The correspondence vote, as proposed, is proposed for each type of election for a different group of voters. In the case of elections to the Chamber of Deputies, these are voters registered in a separate list of voters with the representative offices and voters with whom the electoral card has been issued. In the case of the election of the President of the Republic, correspondence votes should be allowed only to voters registered in a separate list of voters of representative offices, not to voters who intend to vote abroad on the electoral card, and, in the case of elections to the European Parliament, only to voters who are included in the electoral list in the territory of the Czech Republic as opposed to the previous two laws that do not facilitate the vote for regionals living abroad. However, this distinction is not illuminated in any way in the explanatory memorandum. Furthermore, what bothers me in the draft law is that the list of tasks of the representative office and the municipal authority in relation to correspondence voting is insufficient. In fact, it would not only be limited to the issue of correspondence voting documents, but would ensure that the correspondence vote as a whole is carried out. It would also be necessary to reflect the relevant actions relating to the correspondence vote also into the provisions on the District Election Commission and, respectively, the Special District Election Commission. One thing that is also very important here is that the deadline for submitting, registering and subsequent judicial review would need to be postponed when a correspondence vote is introduced. The parliamentary proposal does not reflect in any way the fact that, under the current legislation, a candidate document may be registered on the basis of a court decision still 20 days before the date of the election, which means that only then can the printing of ballots be launched. The proposal submitted envisages that, no later than 25 days before the election date, voting voters must receive the correspondence sets with the ballots. So there's the temporal disproportion. Furthermore, there is no provision in the vote on ballots to ensure that the representative offices and municipal authorities receive in due time the ballots which they will forward to the voters requesting a correspondence vote. From a practical point of view, it also appears desirable and appropriate that information on possible press errors on the ballot and on the waiver or withdrawal of the candidacy should also be published in a way that allows remote access and not only in the voting rooms as is the case in this proposal. The provisions governing the nullity of votes shall not include cases where the district electoral commission, or the special district electoral committee, finds reasons for delaying the envelopes received. The so-called delaying of the envelope will take place when the representative office opens the envelope with a correspondence voice and finds that the voting voter has already voted personally in the polling room. This is to counter the duplication of the vote, but the question arises as to what is the legal nature of this deferred vote. Is it invalid? Is it valid? Furthermore, the proposal does not count on the possibility of elections in which correspondence voting should be allowed to take place in parallel. In this case, it should be resolved here whether it is possible for voters to send their votes in a joint delivery envelope. According to the proposal, a request for a correspondence vote should be made by electronic means when signed by an electronic signature guaranteed. I consider such a solution to be insufficient because it does not guarantee adequate identification of the applicant, i.e. also of the future correspondent voter. Furthermore, in the case of elections to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and the election of the President of the Republic, the proposal would entail an enormous organisational burden on the representative offices of the Czech Republic abroad. Those were just general comments. I have another one here, which, of course, concerns the state budget. Following this, it can be assumed that the implementation of the correspondence vote would entail a significant increase in the financial impact on the state budget. It would be an impact on the state budget, on voters, it would actually be an impact on municipal budgets. These costs in this bill are not mentioned in any way in the explanatory memorandum. With regard to the various types of elections as set out in this proposal, I would also like to make a few comments. The amendment to the Act on Elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Given that this proposal now allows the voter's voter's ID and voters who are on the permanent electoral list with the municipal authority, it cannot be excluded that some voters will use this institute for correspondence voting, even if they are not actually foreign. The issue here is that the voter, who lives permanently in the Czech Republic and will vote outside his permanent residence, can now apply for a voter's licence, but he can also vote on this electoral card abroad, because it is not stipulated in this law that the representative office would reject a request for a correspondence vote if the voter lists a place in the Czech Republic as an address for the delivery of ballots, nor that the representative office would include in the survey the ballots sent from the Czech territory. What can actually happen? There may be a purchase of voters' votes and, in essence, they will vote abroad in the direction of the winning election region, because the electoral region is being drawn in a foreign vote and this could affect the results of the elections in that region. Furthermore, it is the provision of § 19b para. 5 governing the procedure of the Special District Election Commission. When the delivery envelope is postponed, it is not reflected in the case where the electoral person to whom the electoral card was issued by the municipal authority did not insert it in the delivery envelope. The provision only remembers the absence of an identification card. The question is whether such a voice will be valid. If so, there is, of course, another way to vote in duplicate. I can put another case in the amendment to the Act on the election of the President of the Republic. The proposal does not adequately describe the procedure of the representative office in the case of voting in the second round of the elections, as the proposed wording is - I quote: "In the second round of the election of the President of the Republic, the voter may be put to the vote, together with the ballots for the first round and the ballots for the second round of the election of the President." In my view, this is an inappropriate formulation from the logic of the matter, because the possibility of voting in the second round of the presidential election cannot be tied to the condition that voters will be sent ballots for this second round. That's absurd, because there's basically a question of whose tickets have arrived, he has the right to vote who hasn't arrived, he has the bad luck, he doesn't have the right to vote. Furthermore, in the presidential elections, the procedure is not sufficiently described in the case where the electorate wishes to vote in correspondence only in one round of election of the President of the Republic, and in the event that he wants to vote in correspondence on both rounds, or where appropriate, does not specify his request for a correspondence vote in this respect. Finally, the amendment to the European Parliament election law. Here's my next point. For one thing, there is no reason, in my opinion, for a new electoral system to be introduced compared to the existing compact system for making the electoral list for elections to the European Parliament. Another thing that is unclear in this parliamentary proposal is that, in fact, today, the choice for the European Parliament is possible only on the territory of the Czech Republic, especially in the case of countrymen who live abroad for a long time, have permanent residence abroad, so they can basically take an election ticket to the representative office and go to the Czech Republic today. This parliamentary proposal does not, in substance, allow this to happen. This means that these citizens are losing the option of voting because they would have to sign out their permanent residence, come to the Czech Republic, get a voter's ID here, and opt out for the ID here. So here's the disproportion that we want to help the countrymen, but basically we reject this possibility of voting to them. Another thing about the European Parliament is that, in essence, this method introduces the possibility of a correspondence vote to the European Parliament in the Czech Republic. This means that it allows the voter's voter's card to those voters who are on the electorate list of the municipal authority, and it cannot be excluded that some voters will use this institute for correspondence voting, even if they are not actually abroad at all. This de facto introduces correspondence voting in the Czech Republic, in my opinion unnecessarily, because I think that there are enough voting rooms in the Czech Republic, so it is possible to vote in the polling rooms. [[17.10 hours]] I just wanted to demonstrate here that the proposal in this form is, at least, inadequate and very risky. I consider it to be the most important faults of his that he ignores the adjustments to a number of provisions in the electoral laws in question, especially as regards the necessary shortening of the deadline, he does not oblige the electoral authorities to all the acts to be secured in the correspondence voting process, and it is not clear for the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, for candidates to be voted by the electorate. In practice, these major material deficiencies would not allow a correspondence option to be made at all, according to the proposal under consideration. It is necessary, as I said once before, to further resolve and clarify specific procedures at representative offices abroad, to prepare new internal methodologies, to significantly strengthen staff of representative offices and to train these staff accordingly. This is only about the draft parliamentary law. I say, once again, here I point out that the idea of a correspondence vote is, of course, correct, and we have it as if in the government's programming statement, but here these comments point to the materialism as presented to the petitioner. For these reasons, I propose to return the bill to the petitioner for revision. That's my procedural proposal. If this proposal is not accepted, I propose that Article 91 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty be amended accordingly. Article 3 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies extending the time limit for committee discussions by 20 days. I also have another procedural proposal that I propose to order this proposal to be discussed by the Foreign Committee if it is adopted with an extended period of approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u9	Thank you, rapporteur. Was that the announced speech in the debate already? [[Yes.]] Yes, I understand that. It's obvious. In that case, I give the floor to Mr Ferim, who will speak with a point of fact. After that, Mr Valenta will respond with a factual comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u10	Thank you very much for him, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, I'm only going to take this seriously. [[Minister Dostálová is in the hall as the only member of the government]] I would like to thank the rapporteur very much for having taken his report so widely and managed to poke out some problematic points of the proposal. I have to convince him to do that. Indeed, the proposal contains some points for which political debate is needed. It is technically quite difficult to implement a correspondence option. But that's something that can be solved in committees. And the purpose of the first reading should be to express our position, whether we want to deal with it at all. The government has given a neutral opinion on this. That means we're on a pretty good track. I would like to ask you, colleagues, not to bring this proposal back - because this is not a political debate: you will give us back to think about it and meditate on it again - but to release it to committees, we can extend the time limits by 20 days, but let it be there, let us create some kind of rack that we can talk about. Maybe we won't come to some compromise, some compromise text. But I don't think it's appropriate to give it back to us. It is necessary to get this into the committees and to address this outside, say, from a political point of view, and to resolve all the problems that the rapporteur has outlined here, or those white spots that some have not been sufficiently thought of in this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u11	Thank you. With a factual remark from Mr Valenta, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Technically, technically, I would respond to the rapporteur, who said here, or made a long list of the shortcomings of this law, and not only because of these shortcomings, I will propose, virtually. I now propose rejection at first reading, but that is for one main reason, and that there is a breach of the Constitution guaranteed by the principle of secrecy. Because it has also been nicely told by the petitioner that our Constitution in the head of two in the power of the legislative article the 18th clearly describes and orders that elections to the Chamber of Deputies should be made by a secret choice. And here the secret election principle is clearly violated in the correspondence election. Consider that there may be a time delay between filling out the ballot and inserting it into the envelope, it may be a few days long, I don't know a few hours long, many people around, such as family members and others, can get acquainted with this choice. Therefore, the constitutional principle is clearly violated. When it comes to the physical election, when we go to the committee, that's what the committee's there for, that's where it's supposed to be, that's where one of the voters comes in, mark the ticket and throw it in the urn. This and this principle are not guaranteed here. And I even think it's an obvious violation of our constitutional order. That is why I propose rejection at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u13	Thank you. With the factual remark of Mrs Pekarová Adamová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u14	First, then, towards the rapporteur and the list of shortcomings he mentioned here. He drew from the government's position, which we have at our disposal for this press. I'm going to say a historical insertion. Not only was this government shielding itself by wanting to accept the correspondence option that it wanted to allow our fellow citizens this form of election, but also the previous ones claimed it. And we didn't have any such proposal from the government in the last parliamentary term, we didn't. Sobotkův's government did not prepare it, so we prepared it as an opposition party within our club and submitted it. That's when we got the complaints that the government had prepared for the bill. And this year, or in this parliamentary term, I took our original proposal, I took the government's comments, I sat above it with the legislation, the lawyers who are engaged in this area, and all the comments that Sobotkův's government made at the time, we worked into this proposal here. So we are now coming up with a proposal that is just after dealing with all these comments. And, hey, we got another set of new comments, other comments. And I do not doubt that there may be any confusion in some matters or need a better wording, but I do not think that this should serve as an argument that we should immediately condemn the proposal to failure and reject it. As far as secrecy is concerned, that is, to my speaker, Mr Valent, through the President, there are actually dozens of countries that allow such a choice. It is also stated in their constitutions that elections are to be secret. We're not inventing any new instruments here, we're not inventing a bike or making such a big deal out of it. Just what works elsewhere, we would like it to work in the Czech Republic. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u15	Thank you. Vice-President Pikal, with a factual remark. In the meantime, let me introduce you to my apologies. Mrs Oborná from 17.30 to 19.00 apologizes for reasons of work, Mr Bauer from 17.30 to the end of the sitting day for reasons of work and Mr Munzar also from 17.30 to the end of the sitting day for reasons of work. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u16	Thank you. I am enrolled in a proper debate, so now I will only briefly respond to the previous speaker who claimed that this proposal violated the secrecy of the election. I've been waiting to see how it should be broken if, as it's said, it won't be followed to open the envelopes. No. So it's that the ballots lie at home and anyone can look at them, or they're lying somewhere. But we're sending out the ballots today. Those guys are predicting it at home, and anybody in the family can take a look at it. I consider this a false argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u17	Thank you. Mr Benda, with a factual point, followed by Mr Kalousek, Mr Strýček. All factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u18	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also apply my position in substance. But it really didn't give me a chance to not respond to the secrecy of the election. Honestly, if any of you tried to vote in Prague, for example, but even in most of the major cities now in municipal elections, it was physically - physically - impossible behind the plentiful. I voted for one side, I knew which side, I didn't choose anybody else, and it was still inalienable behind the plate. So if we have a problem with someone predicting at home, then we are going to solve the current elections in a fundamental way, and especially the municipal elections. And then let's talk about it, and let's definitely not pretend that this is the reason to reject correspondence voting abroad. There may be other reasons for that, but I don't think it's really a violation of the secrecy of the election, because you can't vote in municipal elections anymore without being at home, really voting today. It's an impossible task.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u19	Thank you. Mr Kalousek, Mr Strýček, after Mr Valenta. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u20	Thank you for the floor. Just a brief remark on the previous speakers, in particular on the rapporteur and Mr Valent. We humbly accept a number of comments leading to the safety of the elections, but many of them are reversible, some may be debatable at second reading. This really is not a reason to reject this proposal if we want to extend this form of vote for our voters. I think that the fundamental dispute was expressed in Mr Valenta's speech, which was quite clear here. I'll quote him. He said, "We want the voter to come to the urn." - This proposal is not just a proposal from Members of the TOP 09, it has been signed by Members across the political spectrum and we do not want the electorate to come only to us. We want him to come to everyone. And I understand that Mr Valenta feels comfortable that you don't seem very comfortable abroad. So I understand the strategic consideration leading to the rejection here, but I think to all of us who want the voters to come as much as possible to anyone else, it shouldn't stop us from releasing this proposal for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u21	Thank you. Member Strýček - factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u22	Good afternoon again. Well, I have to respond to the previous speakers one more time. As far as my performance is concerned, I have made it clear that I am not attacking the correspondence option itself. I have attacked this material here, which has been presented... Or he attacked - I have somehow criticized this material here, which has been submitted, not the system of correspondence elections. And as far as I can remember, the procedural motion from me was: a return to recast and, in the event that this would not be approved, an extension of the 20-day hearing period, so I did not make the motion for rejection. And just one more comment. I was watching who signed the bill. It is not entirely true that it went across the political spectrum because it was signed by STAN, signed by KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, signed by three MPs for the ODS, three MPs for the pirate party, and that is, I have a hunch, everything. So it wasn't exactly across the political spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u23	Thank you. Mr Valenta, with a factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u24	Thank you. I only margo some of my previous speakers, especially from the TOP 09 series. Of course, I appreciate your legal opinions, but if you don't understand the legal difference between bragging about who I'm gonna vote for, or plotting my choices at home, and then actually voting in secret, then don't be mad at me, this really is a fatal ignorance! And I'm not opposed to a correspondence election for the future, but please, let's change the Constitution before that so that the choice doesn't have to be secret.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u25	Thank you. Mr Klaus, the Vice-President of Pikal, will now speak in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, one more time today. God's mills go slow, but sure. I am living proof of this, because I often speak with factual remarks, and now I have applied normally to the debate. This law is very groundbreaking in my opinion, and I would like to join those if there are still some who do not want to contradict this view just because it is unprepared, that it brings a lot of problems, that it brings possibilities of abuse, I would like to express myself against the correspondence choice as such. In my opinion, the people who live in that country have to vote. My aunt, who lives in Australia and hasn't been here in 20 years, if Pol Pot or Michálek rules here, she doesn't care, she doesn't touch it, she goes to the bush with her dog, she just doesn't have the right to vote, even though she is a Czech citizen and was born here. Like me, if I were born in Karvina, but I've lived in Prague for 46 years, I haven't even gone there once, I don't have the right to vote in correspondence with the Carvina council, for example, about how the city is going to level with the mine. So that's one very important thing. The second thing I would like to draw attention to is the great democraticity of our elections. Take countries in Africa or elsewhere where counting votes lasts a week, two, all candidates already blame themselves for fraud, and take the difference in the Czech Republic, where despite the fact that there are different opinions and hatreds, so it is numbered in three hours, winners cheer, losers face sour, the people have spoken. The idea of them counting votes for two or three weeks is very dangerous. Point three. Our democracy is also based on binding to the place. Each of you is voting, watching how things turned out in your precinct, where you know it. The elections are almost the same every time. In Prague, Walnuts vote for the right, somewhere over there in Karvina, rather left-wing parties, the elections turn out the same way. If things turned out differently all of a sudden, people are suspicious, voting tickets are recounted, etc. Remember the situation in Austria, where the candidate I would vote for won everywhere except Vienna and correspondence votes. Does democracy win or lose? It's like making things easier... I'm very afraid of the salami method. Now we're gonna allow a correspondence vote for abroad, then we're gonna adjust it for the people here at home so they don't have to go to that election. Then come our young colleagues that it is unmodern, let it be through some app in a computer game etc. etc. etc. But democracy means going somewhere. In ancient Rome, they rank as their elected candidate. That's an expression of effort. It is not the goal of as many people as possible to vote. It is intended for those who want to vote and must do something about it. So these are roughly things that I consider to be terribly important. And these things, like every election, it's on TV, somewhere somewhere, somebody's giving the Rom a hundred bucks a vote. Now it's very problematic, the TV is filming. How do you figure out if he actually voted for what they wanted behind that plate and not go for the 500 seven times or what they're promising them, but imagine how easy all this stuff is gonna be? So these are probably the main things that are really philosophical, against which I am fundamentally opposed to tradition and disparaging elections, as we know them. So I will support both the recast and the rejection. I hope there's more of us at the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u27	Thank you. Mr Kalousek, Mr Feri, President Bělobrádek, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, will respond with factual comments. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u28	Thank you. Forgive me, I can't not respond to the previous speaker. Mr Klaus has expressed his opinion on who he believes has the right or the right to vote. Whoever has the right to vote in the Czech Republic determines the Constitution of the Czech Republic, no one else, no opinion. And the fact that Klausův' aunt has been living on a continent other than Václav Klaus for 20 years certainly knows why, according to the Constitution, she has not yet been deprived of her right to vote. [[entertainment]] And I'm sure there'll be a lot of people like that. So our question is only: if we want to make it accessible to our citizens, or if we want to make it harder for them, the right they have to have from the Constitution. You have the right, but we think you shouldn't have it, so we're gonna make it harder for you to access it. And it's not just Klausův' aunt. There are just people who go to work abroad. They're not only scientists, they're workers. They work in places where there's no consulate where there's no embassy. Imagine Japan, where there are four islands, Hokkaido, Honshú, Shikoku and Kyushu, and the embassy is only on Hokkaido and simply a number of our citizens are working on Kyushu and would like to vote because that is their constitutional right. And now we're supposed to answer a simple question, whether we're going to make this constitutional right available to them by a correspondence choice, like most civilized states, or we're going to make it harder, because you're going to sit at home, listen to Okamura or Klaus Jr., you're not supposed to go anywhere and go to the ballot box. And you're not supposed to mail anything! In between, we make decisions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u29	Thank you. Mr Feri, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare to contradict the thesis that Mr Klaus has set up here, namely, who does not live in the country, does not have the right to vote. And I will contradict her by what Mr Klaus himself said, namely that democracy is an expression of some effort. All right. The man abroad is going to make an effort. It follows events in the Czech Republic. He follows him with resentment and makes an effort in the sense that he addresses the representative office, wants to vote in correspondence. Well, are we really going to be the person who's watching this happening who wants to participate in the exercise of this democracy, stealing his right to vote? I mean, he's trying. And that's what democracy is all about. That means I'd be a little more careful here. There was also a complaint towards the local elections. Well, it's not about municipal elections. There is simply a short correspondence option. We'd have to talk about the choice of electronics by then, and that's the music of the far future. I can't. And finally, the Australian one. That's how you can vote for correspondence in Australia since 1877. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u31	Thank you. President Bělobrádek, with a factual remark. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u32	Thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I have co-signed the proposal. I think it is reasonable for politicians to create the conditions for people to be alone as much as possible and to do their will. The will in the elections is, I think, particularly important, it is finally constitutional law. And I think that people who do not live in the Czech Republic, for example only temporarily, such as scientists, deserve to have the chance, regardless of investing small funds, logistics and the like, to participate in their basic citizens' rights, and that is to vote for them. So from this point of view, I think the discussion is quite pointless. I am convinced that as it works in other countries, the correspondence choice is one of the few that is really trouble-free. And I think we can still talk about technical matters, but that's quite easy to figure out. Finally, there was a meeting at the Home Office. I think we can definitely handle that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u33	Thank you. Mr Válek and Mr Brázdil followed him with factual remarks. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u34	Thank you. I would like to thank Mr Klaus, through Mr President, because I was never clear before I was here, why Parliament and the government did not approve a correspondence choice much earlier. Now I get it, I get it. I can't quite accept it. I have a number of colleagues who spend a week abroad, three weeks, the entire Erasmus, the foreign internships of my fellow educators, scientists. All of this has to do with the election, and they plan it so that they don't go anywhere at the time of the election. In my opinion, it's complete nonsense to defend correspondence choices. I would like us to agree that either we modify the bill, or we somehow transform it to suit everyone. But it would be sad if we agreed to defend our citizens from correspondence choices and thus to keep them away from the Czech Republic. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u35	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Brázdil. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr Kalousek, through Mr President, I have yet to come to you to clarify this. You said you actually wanted to access, or allow better access to the voters. But the word says you have to go in there. It's not about you lying on your bed at home and filling and sending. You guys just have to come in. You said it yourself. I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u37	Mrs Pekarová Adamová, President Kalousek, will take a real note. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u38	To the speaker only through the President. Imagine living in the United States of America. You're there as a scientist, you represent the Czech Republic in some way. And now you're in an area where your closest opportunity to actually show up in person is hundreds of miles away. So your opportunity to vote in person means to buy either a ticket or a ticket to another means of transport, spend a lot of time, take a vacation on it, even go there to get the option to be registered on the electorate list first. So you have to go through this twice. We have two rounds in the presidential election, so you have to do it three times. And these are all really small time and money that you have to put into it. And that's gonna keep a lot of people from going through with it. Yet there are many of our fellow citizens - Václav Klaus through Mr President - many of our fellow citizens will go through this, buy a ticket, spend their money on it, because it is worth it and they are interested in participating in the elections. But not everyone, of course, has such an interest. And the e-mails we get are dozens, hundreds, those stories of people who would really be interested in voting, but that's not what being made available is. And they would very much like to influence what is going on here in the Czech Republic, even because they want to come back here, they will continue to live here, it is only a temporary time when they spend time abroad, for work, study or other reasons. So I think this is the kind of form that allows them to access - and let's not play at the root of the expression here - to make that choice really really available.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u39	Thank you. President Kalousek, after which Mr Klaus made factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u40	Thank you. I feel responsible to reply to Mr Brázdil, who said that he did not understand the concept of making the right to vote available, because that means actually going somewhere. I will try to explain this to you through the President. In your own profession, Mr. Colleague, if I say that I'm seeking to make an emergency medical care available to the patient, that doesn't mean that the unfortunate must approach you to an ambulance, but on the contrary, it means that you will come to him with that ambulance, as you often do. I hope, then, that in this example, you have clearly understood the word to be made available. If not, do not hesitate to contact me with further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u41	Thank you. Mr Klaus, in fact, points out. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u42	I'll respond to some previous speakers. For my part, I ask the petitioner here to address me through the President. I always get scared when I'm like this... Secondly, Mr Kalousek left out about three quarters of my argument, or four fifths, and devoted himself to insulting me and our aunt. I don't have to respond to that. And for other speakers alike. But that kind of simplisticization of the election, that can be applied to any case at all. While I was living in Prague, I had it to the polling room one minute after a nice clean street. Now I live in Pec pod Sněžkou. I have a quarter of an hour when the elections were in winter, so much longer, and I also have a much more difficult approach to do my voter rights, which I have constitutional rights to. So from the same logic, you could argue that the correspondence option is immediately in the Czech Republic, because somehow I will arrange it and I will not go into the polling room with the wills. And this is how we can continue. So it's the salami method again, when we're destroying something conservative, stable. But a lot of things just don't go through apps and correspondence. Elections are serious. That's where you need to get up and go. For example, marriage is also a serious matter. You can't vote on vdadamse.cz either. But you're gonna get into a frack and drag two witnesses into a room to show up in person. So that's the philosophical difference that you don't understand or you don't want to understand. I'm not taking your right away, but I suffer here every day when the delusions and the bills that I wouldn't support are being declared. But let's listen to each other a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u43	Thank you. The factual remarks made by President Kalousek, Mr Válek Member, President Bělobrádek, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, will follow in that order. Chairman Kalousek. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u44	Thank you. I would like to respectfully, but with all determination, I opposed Mr Klaus' claim that I may have offended his or his aunt with my speech. Not even his, the less his aunt, who shows an undisputed degree of rationality in Australia, I certainly did not insult him. On the contrary, his aunt, who lives in Australia, and many like it, I want to make their indisputable constitutional right available so that they can vote in correspondence and do not have to go to consulates or embassies, which in such large countries as Australia or the United States or Japan or China can really be a problem. Do we want to facilitate their access to their constitutional law, or do we not want to? I think that if we don't want to make it easier for them, that's rather offensive to this approach. Not the attitude that makes it easier for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u45	Mr Válek's point of fact follows. Mrs Matušovská apologises from 17.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u46	One more time. I fully understand, through Mr President, that Mr Klaus' argument that one should somehow earn the honorable duty, the opportunity to go to the elections and make some effort to do so. And the level of effort should be consistent with the gravity of the process. But for me, it's kind of déjà vu. I have been having these discussions in professional societies, in medical, European, world, Czech quite a long time, when there is a group of traditionalists who wanted us to vote on the Presidents of the European Radiological Society, European surgical Society on the spot, by voting raised hands or by voting in the urns, and a group that promoted the distance form of vote and, of course, the electronic way of voting, which I would therefore consider to be the optimal solution from the long term. And the reason was that our goal should be to allow as many voters as possible to participate in the elections and to be able to do so. And allow them to make the elections fair, objective and fair. And this is one of those ways to do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u47	Thank you. President Bělobrádek, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u48	Thank you for the floor. Gentlemen, by your means, Mr President, I would therefore like to recommend to Mr Václav Klaus that, in this case, he admit this proposal to the next reading, because then, in accordance with his views, we could use this medium to cancel what is called a choice in the place of residence, when you take the urn as a member of the electoral committee and go with it to a place where the very person who cannot physically appear is staying, because it is causing him problems because of his state of health, for example. Because the fact that he doesn't show up when he can't walk or he's sick is absolutely scandalous because he should come and express his right to vote only by being physically there. I think it's so absurd, your argument that it offers to say directly: let's cancel this ability, too, because if this person doesn't show up because he's incompetent, it's an expression of his disrespect for electoral law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u49	Thank you. Mrs Pekarová Adamová. After that, Mr Klaus. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u50	Thank you for the floor. So I, through the President, to Mr Klaus. And before that, I used it here, too. It's just so he doesn't mess around. I mean, not only do we have to listen to each other, but to respond to those factual arguments. We are clearly demonstrating here on many examples that it is indeed the right to vote, that is, the fundamental right of all citizens, that is, the fundamental thing that leads us to present this bill. I would therefore be interested to know what solution he recommends to our fellow citizens who live abroad, who stay there for some time for whatever reason, and it may not be twenty years at all, as he mentions an example from his family, but they can really only be there for a shorter period and then go back as he would help them to exercise this right of choice. That's one thing. And the second thing is, if we're using any arguments here, we should first verify whether the facts are true. In your argument, you said, in the opening, that in Austria, in the presidential election, if it weren't for Vienna and these correspondence votes, the current president wouldn't have been elected. Please check that that's not true. You can take a look. I mean, I looked it up on the Internet right away, so I'm willing to put it at your disposal. It really isn't. So please, let's just use the facts and not get involved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u51	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Klaus. After that, with a factual remark, Mr Baxa. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u52	Mrs Pekarová must be talking about the re-election, not the first one. As far as Austria is concerned. As far as Mr. Bělobrádek is concerned, I've been breathing. But that's a dirty foul, this argument. Unlike you, I have been dating an urn as a member of the electoral commission as a student and as a teacher to people who are ill and cannot vote at the place of residence. No one's arguing that. And using that argument is incredibly pathetic. So I don't know. I'm not talking about Náchod and the constituency. And I'll pass. As for Mr. Kalousek. There I was interested in his traditional patriotism that when he talks about auntie, he says how he makes a rational decision that he doesn't live in the Czech Republic. That's the difference between you and me. I love the Czech Republic and do not consider it rational not to live in the Czech Republic. It's like more to you than the people who live at home. I don't really understand. Speaking of Australia, we're gonna leave that auntie. You know, I've been talking to her, with my cousins who've been there about the Czech Republic on Australian television for the last 20 years. So it was two messages. The first was when there were floods in Prague. It's like Karlův' bridge, almost underwater. And the second message was on national television when the senior party candidate for life security didn't make it to parliament, lost the bet and had to eat the darker bug. These are the two reports that the people living in Australia received about the Czech Republic. And I think I'd be done with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u53	I thank Mr Klaus. Another one with a point of fact, Mr Martin Baxa. Mr. Bělobrádek, Kalousek, Výborný, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u54	Good evening, Mr President, dear colleagues. At this point, I do not have the ambition to enter into this perhaps somewhat heated debate, which we are witnessing here through factual remarks. But I want to say why I am one of those Members who has attached his signature to the bill. I am a member of the city, which is sometimes said to be the most American city in the Czech Republic. We were freed in 1945 by the U.S. Army. We are proud of it, and of course we like to present it. And that is why Čech who live in the United States of America often come to our city. I have had the opportunity to visit the Czech community in the United States, and I have heard, ladies and gentlemen, from them very often a call for a correspondence election to be introduced. These are people who have lived in the United States of America for a long time, some for a short time. They are young people, students who are studying there, people who have worked there or have lived there for several generations, and they call very much after the correspondence choice, whether for reasons of purely practicality, that is, that is, they are not able to visit one of the three places, if I am not mistaken where to vote in the United States of America at a time when there are elections or emotional reasons, because they are very careful about what is happening in the Czech Republic, they want to sign up in this way. And I am convinced that this proposal allows people, Čech living e.g. In the United States of America, so apply to patriotism in the best sense of the word. Of course, the proposal can and probably has some shortcomings. But I am convinced that we should let this proposal go through first reading, support it and, if necessary, adjust it in the next process. But the principle is definitely correct in my opinion, and that is why I supported it. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u55	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Bělobrádek and Members Kalousek, Výborný, Mrs Pekarová, Benešík and Mrs Procházková will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u56	Thank you for the floor. By your means, Mr Klaus here pessed Mrs Pekarová Adamová, if I am correct, that he does not address him through the President, which was not true, and he himself addresses me directly. That's just typical. Second thing. When the arguments run out, it's ad homin. That's also typical. And the third thing. Well, the logic is still the same. Someone simply has objective difficulties physically coming to the ballot box in the polling room. And I don't think it matters what the reason is. Whether it's his health or his condition that he's out of reach for objective reasons because he's abroad and he doesn't have the option of anyone else living in the Czech Republic. I think it's logical that there's nothing weird about it, it's just that we need to use common sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u57	Thank you. Mr Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u58	Thank you. Perhaps one last time on this subject. I'm really embarrassed to talk about Mr. Václav Klaus' aunt, but I really wasn't the one who pulled her into this discussion as an example, and I want to be properly understood. If I was talking about her rational, I speculate about her, not that she lives far from her homeland, but that she prefers to live far from a family that denies her right to vote. If I lived in Australia and my nephew denied me the electoral right of a citizen of the Czech Republic, I wouldn't want to live with him in one place, except maybe to pull him out of my ears.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u59	Mr Marek Výborný with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I only wanted one thing through you to my colleague Klaus. I liked to meet the broadcast format and content of Australian television, or Australian television, but I wanted to point out that there is one interesting invention, and that is the Internet. And I assume they're using the Internet among the kangaroos in Australia. So the argument that the poor Čech living in Australia have only two information about the Czech Republic in a year is completely irrelevant. Anyone who wants information will get it, and it doesn't matter if it's Australia or Greenland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u61	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u62	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to mention the Internet, too, but I don't have to. I have asked a question, and I have not received a response at all, so I feel that Mr Klaus would not allow or make available elections to our fellow citizens living abroad, so he considers them to be citizens of some other category and feels that their right to vote does not have the same weight as those living in the Czech Republic or are simply not found at the time of the elections abroad. This is how it affects me, and I will be happy to have the Member, through the President, give me an idea of how our fellow citizens who are temporarily abroad should be allowed to choose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u63	With a factual point, Mrs Procházková is also registered. Mr. Mr. Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u64	Good evening, everyone. I have a point. So if we want to make the vote available to our citizens abroad as quickly as possible, we are still arguing with Australia, we should not think, for example. About the Australian election being mandatory? Then I would understand that if elections were mandatory, we should make the elections available to our citizens, everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u65	Thank you. Mr Klaus with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u66	I don't want to stir up the debate or turn what you said into something else, these experienced political foxes. Just out of politeness, when the lady challenged me to deal with it, I would deal with it exactly as I have done so far. Everyone has the right to have an election card, to vote at the representative office or in any electoral district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u67	With priority rights, Mr Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u68	Thank you. I am watching very closely the debate that is going on here. I think a lot of people travel because they have to or are sent to work. We look at these people as if they were second-class people. Instead of saying, "of course, you have the right to vote, the state is out of reaching out to you and allowing you to do so," the discussion is slightly directed to saying, "you've gone abroad, so you're not important to us, we don't appreciate you, and somehow make it happen." On the contrary, I personally think that the state should be helpful in this case, respect it and allow people to vote, because it is a fundamental right that we have, and sometimes one finds oneself abroad. And we're not just talking about the people who are left behind, but who, as I say, are needed on business. Let's make the state kinder, more helpful, more considerate to these people. Let us approach them, and let us hear what they are calling for. On the contrary, I think it will be very good and helpful to people who are abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u69	With a factual remark, Mr Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u70	Excuse me. I will give you one very specific example, which really became not a relative, but the Czech Philharmonic, which is undoubtedly a body that represents the great Czech Republic all over the world and which performed on one of the islands of Japan where there was no embassy, so it was not Hokkaido, I can no longer remember which of the three others it was. And the Czech embassy refused to come from them with an ballot box. This means that the 178 people who represented the Czech Republic at the well-rated concerts did not have a chance to exercise their right to vote. Only for the extraordinary intervention of the then Minister of Foreign Affairs Kohout, the embassy agreed to take the urn, to cross the sea, to follow them, and the 178 employees of the Czech Philharmonic could vote. If they didn't, they just couldn't exercise their right to vote. Would that make them smaller patriots? No! We just didn't let them. How much easier would it be if everyone could take the envelope, check out Schwarzenberg or Zeman and put it in the mail. That's exactly what we want to make it easier for anyone who goes abroad to be a scientist, an artist, a butcher, a cleaner. You really don't want to make it easy for him? Why?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u71	Thank you. We are going back to the general debate. Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u72	Good evening. I originally signed up for the debate to be short, it did not happen. However, at least everything has been said in it, something more than once. I thank you for the arguments that have also been raised here to introduce correspondence choices in municipal elections, because there is really no equal availability of electoral rooms in the Czech Republic. So I thank Mr Klaus for this, through Mr President, for explaining to us why it is good to introduce correspondence choices in municipal elections. However, this proposal does not go that far. This proposal is merely trying to straighten out the basic civil electoral rights for those who live or stay abroad for a short time. Likewise, there have been arguments put forward that the proposal is not entirely perfect, or that its quality is debatable. I have already read one amendment, which, for example, corrects matters about the presidential election so that the diction of the law is clear there, so that the tickets are sent out on time. Similarly, other amendments to other issues can be prepared. I'm in communication with the ministries. Worrying whether or not it will be a great burden for the representative offices is different. Estimates of how many voters will be involved vary from roughly 100,000 to 2,000, so I'm not afraid our representative offices should put it down. I would just like to point out that, as far as ballots are concerned, they are not being sent to the representative offices, they are being printed there. We don't spend money sending paper packages abroad, if possible. If that were not the case, it is certainly possible to introduce it. So much for the debate. [[18.00 hours]] For our club - we generally support correspondence choices. We think that this is a good way to straighten out voting rights for people who are abroad, work there, represent the Czech Republic there, whether in culture or in science, they are communities working in IT disciplines in America, they are communities working on construction issues in China, they are communities of people who represent us as engineers on oil platforms, etc. I also get different stories from voters who find that they will have to travel thousands of kilometres three or two to vote because they simply do not have another available representative office to get to in time. I think the person who's gonna have to apply for a voter's license, and then he's gonna have to keep an eye on the dates and send his ballot in time, invests his time and attention far more in that than the person who's gonna run out of ballots, and he's gonna find out there's some choices, and he's gonna throw back the same party. I think that those people who live abroad, on the contrary, in order to learn that they will be able to vote and watch the terms, must really be interested in the situation here, and I think that we should stand by their votes as a state, because I think that they are much better represented by the learned opinion that we want in the electorate to be educated, to be informed, to be informed about any of our media and the like, not just to collect reports from their state television in the place where they are located. So much for the subject. As I say, let's put this proposal into the next reading, prolong the time, correct all the shortcomings and discussions that are going on there... In this area, it is probably still necessary to mention the initiative of the Ministry of the Interior, which actually initiates some general overmining of electoral laws, because one thing that is really lacking in this state in the long term is an electoral code that would put all procedural matters into one law. It has been waiting for at least eight years, at least two parliamentary periods. If we had one of these laws, we would solve problems like the same electoral lists, the difficult distinction of who has the right in which elections and other problems. There is a chance to get to this, but every government that I am in politics for ten years has promised it, but it still isn't, so that is why the parliamentary initiative to correct at least these little things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u73	I thank the Vice-President for his speech. Mr Marek Benda with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u74	Where would I get it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u75	Club chairman, right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u76	No, no. I am not acting as club president, I am acting as a simple member of Marek Benda. I just wanted to briefly discuss the debate that was going on. I agree with many arguments made by my honored colleague Václav Klaus that elections should not be dramatically simplified. I don't think it's really supposed to be like that. I'm not a fan of any ideas about electronic voting. I am not even a fan of the idea of a correspondence vote within our country. And you know that they're starting to appear here in connection with the fact that it's started to say, there's only going to be one election day, and the rest will be replaced by a correspondence vote. I think it creates problems, and I agree that an act of elections is an essential act. At the same time, I think that, in relation to abroad, she is a correspondence choice that is really not easy - and it has been highlighted here, I have to go there, I have to pick up, I have to deliver by the day of counting the ballot, she doesn't extend any time limits - that it is much closer to parallel to the fact that I can pick up my voting card in the Czech Republic and I don't have to vote in elections that are national in nature, I don't have to vote in Prague, but I can vote in Liberec or Ostrava. Therefore, I will not vote in favour of rejecting this proposal or returning it to recast, and I will want to talk to the committees about whether we can improve it in any way so that the reservations are removed. But what I'm trying to say is that this thing is multilayered and we shouldn't treat it like a civil war, someone has a right, someone doesn't have a right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u77	Thank you, too. At this point, we have exhausted both the debate and the factual remarks. There does not seem to be anyone else reporting for the debate from the point of view, so I am ending the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. I beg you to be the first plaintiff, then the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u78	Thank you for the floor. There have been a number of arguments in the debate, criticisms, in particular from the rapporteur, very technically oriented, respectively. Very detailed. I am convinced that with all of them, because these are not criticisms of a fundamental nature that would undermine the proposal in the sense that the correspondence choice is not feasible under this law, so that we can deal with all of them with second reading amendments. I believe that both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will cooperate in this matter, just because within the framework of this government's programming declaration, the promise of a correspondence election is made, and the promise would certainly be kept by the two parties who are in the government. However, if we rely on waiting for a government bill that is just beginning to be discussed, there is not even a general intention yet, we have nothing written on paper, so we are talking about the fact that our citizens could vote in correspondence at some point in 2025, and I think it is too long for us to throw it under the table and leave it just on a government proposal. However, this proposal is intended to contain a number of other fundamental changes, not just a correspondence choice, not just its introduction, so I think that this proposal could really serve as a good means of bringing this form of distance vote into existence. There was, for example, an argument that we should think about introducing an election obligation. I think it is something so fundamental, such a fundamental change, and it has nothing to do with the possibility of a distance vote, that it is for a completely different debate. For example, there have been criticisms here about the budget that will somehow be affected by this. The explanatory memorandum clearly states that the quantification, of course indicative, because these impacts are very difficult to estimate, should not be nearly as significant, they should be units of millions, not more significant amounts, which I think is definitely worth allowing the exercise of voting rights for our fellow citizens, who are estimated to be hundreds of thousands abroad. I think that the debate is rather ideologically conducted on whether people who live, for example, longer time abroad should even vote. As I tried to say during the debate, we are far from talking about just those who live abroad for a long time and do not intend to return to the Czech Republic. Rather, we are concerned about people who want to return to the Czech Republic, living abroad only temporarily. Typically, they are students or people who work abroad for some time. On the contrary, I think that we should be very interested in making them feel that they too continue to be related to the Czech Republic and the development in it. And in order to be interested in coming back, one assumption is that they will not only feel that they can influence these things, but they will be allowed to do so in fact. So I ask you to support this proposal, whether you have technical reservations about it or not, and you want some things to be clearly clarified there. As promoters, we are aware that the debate in the committees will not be easy, but please, let us certainly make it possible, because otherwise we will bury the proposal for a long time, throw it under the table, and our fellow citizens will wait for more years, not just as they are waiting today. This debate has really been going on for at least 15 years, and I think we deserve to move it a step further. [[18.10 hours]] I definitely agree with the extension of the time limits in committee discussions. I don't think it's going to be any harm at all, and that both of the two ministries I've appointed will be involved in this debate so that the proposal is as perfect as possible, so that it doesn't really hinder anything at all in the exercise of this electoral right. Thank you for the debate, thank you for your attention, and I believe that we will not disappoint our fellow citizens who are very closely following this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u79	I also thank you, and I now ask the rapporteur for his final word. I ask the House to keep the noise level down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u80	I hope it's the last time today. I've only been very brief. I would repeat the procedural proposals that have been made here. That is, I have put forward a procedural motion for a re-evaluation, in case this procedural proposal is not approved, so to extend the time limit for discussion by 20 days. I'm just on the edge. Personally, I think that these parliamentary proposals should go to plenary, but this also applies to government proposals, so that there are no more amendments in the additional discussions on committees. Specifically, in this law, I think that there would be a lot of amendments, that would be enough. So that's why I'm putting this procedural motion back into the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u81	Thank you. Let me just say that I have a motion to dismiss.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u82	Motion to dismiss - I'll do it again for the third time. We're not against correspondence choices. My colleague opposed the rejection, but my first procedural proposal was already in the debate on the re-evaluation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u83	Thank you, I'm just saying that you're going to sum up the proposals, so I expected you to sum up all of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u84	So we can vote on all three proposals in a procedural way, that is, we will vote on the draft by my colleague Valenta, who made the motion for rejection at first reading, then we will vote on my proposal, that is to say, the law for revision, and if this fails, that will be the third procedural proposal, and that is an extension of the deadline for committee discussions by 20 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u85	Again, I cannot agree. First, the vote is to be put back to the recast, then the vote is to be rejected, then the vote is to be taken on the committees and then the vote is to be extended or reduced.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u86	So we're going to vote in that order, as you said, that means we're going to vote back to recast, then we're going to vote back on this bill, and then the third will be, if neither of these is going to be the release and extension of the 20-day hearing period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-003-056.u87	Basically, yes, thank you. As far as we all know, we will be voting on the return of the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. I don't see an application for a check-out, so I'll call my colleagues in the hall if there are any in the lobby. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of returning to the recast. Thank you. Who's against it? In the vote number 207, 172 Members and Members are enrolled, for 113, against 40. The motion was accepted. That concludes the examination of the proposal. I thank you, and I'll probably see you over the overworked version, sometimes. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the appellant. That concludes point 56. And now we're going to look at point 10, which is
