ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u1	42. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended /German Press 160/ - First Reading The Government's position has been delivered to us as House Press 160/1. I welcome Senator Emilia Třísková here, who, under the authority of the Senate, will present this proposal. Please, Senator, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate Bill amending Act No.108/2006 Coll., on social services, as amended, and some related laws, addresses increasing the contribution to care for heavily disabled citizens under 18 years of age and over 18 years of age at the highest level of addiction IV, which is a complete dependence for those living in their own social environment, especially in their domestic environment. These are citizens who are long-term in an unfavorable state of health and are unable to cope with the basic needs of life and require daily assistance, supervision and care of other natural persons. These are disabled children, disabled citizens who live in a circle of loving families, but also sick citizens who are confined to bed, but also those who are dying, who want to live with dignity with the help of the family, or social and health field services at home, in their natural environment, to which they are accustomed and which is at this stage of their lives most important to them. An increase in the allowance for care is proposed from CZK 13,200 to CZK 19,200 per calendar month in adults and children who do not benefit, as I have already said, from residence services. There will be a strengthening of the beneficiaries' financial resources for care in the degree of dependence IV, and thus a reduction in the pressure on the provision of residential care services. We propose an increase of CZK 6,000 per month. If today's hourly remuneration for providing field social services is CZK 130 and I am talking about the maximum amount, we give the citizen the opportunity to use another 46.1 hours per month. Every day it is one and a half hours of extra care compared to the current condition, which now allows 3.27 hours of care a day. 19 200 crowns is thus 147.7 hours of care per month, daily it is 4.76 hours of care, I note a lying, completely dependent citizen to help another person. The cost of a bed in senior homes averages between CZK 25 and 50,000 per month, a hospice bed in a bathroom of around CZK 90 thousand per month. The proposed increase in the amount of the care allowance will increase the total annualmandatory cost of the benefit, but it should be stressed that a part, at least one third, will be returned to the system through reimbursement of clients provided with field social registered services. The increase in the care allowance will affect the circus of 25 thousand people, which means an increase in expenditure in the state budget by approximately CZK 1.8 billion. It should be stressed and taken into account that there is a significant pressure to change the provision of services in the domestic environment and to reduce the pressure on residential social services, which are, as a result, costly in terms of operating costs, but also on investment funds. The Senate proposal aims to address those with the highest level of support living at home and to enable them to live a dignified life and equalize opportunities. That is why I am asking you very much to support this Senate proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u3	Thank you, Senator, and please let the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Lenka Dražilová. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said here, the Senate Bill amending Act No.108/2006 Coll. on Social Services deals with increasing the contribution to care in IV. the degree, and I will repeat again, the essence of this proposal is to increase the allowance for care in IV. degree from 13,200 crowns to 19,200 crowns to persons in home care. If the person is provided with assistance by the provider of social services, the amount remains unchanged - CZK 13,200. That's important, it's important to realize. The petitioner justifies that current legislation does not meet the needs of entities in the provision of social services. And really, residents are protected by the maximum amount of payment for accommodation and meals, and their income is guaranteed by a 15 percent income balance. These persons shall be provided with all the basic activities, services and care activities to cover the amount of the specified care allowance. Contrary to this, the law does not provide similar protection for other beneficiaries of the care allowance who do not have the assistance provided by the social welfare services. The increase in the care allowance, as has already been said, would increase the financial resources of the care allowance at stage IV, thereby reducing or reducing the pressure on the provision of residential services. These persons could thus remain in their natural social environment for longer and could benefit from field and outpatient services. Efficacy is proposed from 1. 1. 2019. In view of the fact that this is a Senate proposal, there was no inter-ministerial commentary procedure. At its meeting on 23 May, the Government discussed this proposal and disagreed with the proposal that, although the proposal sounds for the benefit of those who remain in home care and aims to increase their available income, it is still a non-systemic intervention that favours only one group of persons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open the debate. First and foremost, Minister Maláčová is reporting to the debate, which I will give the floor to. Before the Minister arrives, I note that Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Pikal is present and therefore cancels his apology. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u6	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that we support this proposal for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. However, in order to be a systemic solution, I would like to inform you in this context that we are preparing our own amendment to the Social Services Act, where we will want to increase our contribution to care in III. degree, because there are the most people already dependent on the care of other people who care for them in their home environment. And as long as possible, we support home care. I think that this is the most quality care, it is the direction that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs would like to take. So here's to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u7	I thank the Minister and we will now follow the minutes of the general debate. First up is Mr Třešňák, followed by Mrs Maxová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u8	Have a nice day, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I wanted to express my support for the Pirates Club to this Senate proposal, because we are glad that the Senate finally worked on the difference between residence services and home care. And I am also glad for the Minister's words, because we are already the amendment, because we assume that this proposal will go to second reading, so we have prepared an amendment, where there will be an increase at level III. So I hope that during the second reading there will be a discussion about the amount of funds that would be similarly separated for Level III for residential services and home care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u9	Thank you. Mrs Maxová in the general debate. Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u10	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I listened carefully to the rapporteur's report, and I dare to disagree with one thing, and that I am not sure that it will relieve our social facilities. Because our population is getting old. We do not currently have enough field services, which, of course, I assume will be used if this contribution is increased. I would very much like to speak, as the Minister also spoke, about the fact that, of course, systemic change is essential. So I don't think it's just a necessary systemic change in the addition to the care allowance in its amount, whether it's the fourth, third, second or first degree, but at the same time in the speed and purpose of granting these contributions. Because, as you all know, the medical assessment service, the admission of invalidity and the contribution to care was quite a big issue already in the last parliamentary term, especially on the Committee on Social Policy. This functioning of the medical assessment service is not dealt with in the long term. Yesterday he went through the next reading of a bill amendment that slightly initiates a reform of the medical assessment service, but it's really very little. Why am I talking about this? Because even clients in the fourth stage of the care allowance will not live to see this contribution many times thanks to the system that we have introduced here. They're sometimes oncologically ill patients. And when someone waits for you to grant a care allowance for a year, it is clear that they can find themselves in a financial crisis, they have to sell an apartment, they have to move into a smaller one, or maybe their parents, or siblings, and it's not really easy at all. I would be very happy, and I would appeal to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and I have already discussed this with the Minister this week that it is necessary to really push for a rapid reform of the medical assessment service and admission of the care allowance, because those persons in the fourth and third levels depend on the care of the state, social facilities and, of course, on their family members. What I would like to mention in the last place is that there has not yet been a word about how we, as a state caring person, will actually provide us with a considerable amount of money. The senator talked about how much a bed costs in a hospice, how much a bed costs in a bathroom. And these carers have to leave their jobs many times, because field services are not so abundantly widespread in our country, and they lose some value on the labour market. That is why we should also talk about caring persons who deserve some kind of support from the state in the context of this systemic change and this discussion about increasing or not increasing the contribution to care. Because even if the time they take care of their relatives counts until the years they've worked, even if we've introduced a three-month nursing leave or a day off, or as they call it, it's not enough. And it is very sad when these people then find themselves at the employment office, because their pension is very low and they have to ask for an increase in their standard of living even if they have spared the state considerable funds. So I assume that this bill, this amendment will go through the next reading and that the Committee on Social Policy will pay really great and comprehensive attention to it, not only by increasing the six thousand, but above all to have a professional debate on how to help caring people and their family members and how to speed up better admission, faster admission of the care allowance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u11	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, fellow Members, before we look at what I have prepared, I would have an additional question to respond to the Minister's speech. For me there was a positive report that the Ministry was preparing its own amendment, and I have a question whether the principles or the things that the Ministry is processing in the amendment can be incorporated into this bill in the framework of the standard legislative process in the House. This means, for example, making amendments between first and second reading at the latest at second reading and then having it. Because then it would be a lot easier for all of us than the current situation. I must admit that it is not entirely easy in such an area to comment critically on the proposal, or point out the uncertainty or inconclusiveness of the proposal, because we will certainly remember that domestic care is much better than institutional care, and we certainly agree that those who have the fourth degree contribution should be added. But that should not prevent us from having a normal democratic debate over this bill. And I will try to ask about three specific questions to the petitioner, in this case to the Minister, and then summarize our approach, the citizens' democrats, in this area that we have been promoting over the long term, and I believe that we are able to agree on many of the principles that we are going to talk about. Definitely, and I've said it before, none of us are crammed with the need to help people who live in a home environment and pay for their own care because none of the family members can take care of them. No one's fucking around with that. I personally know the story of a young man 34 years old who suffers from a loss of muscle mass, is attached to an electric cart and can't do without an assistant. He needs care at night because he won't turn himself in bed. Still, he's a college student, and he's working for it. And to have an idea of how financially demanding the assistant service is. An hour's assistant costs him 130 crowns. So it costs 3,120 a day for assistance services if no one in the family can take care of them. Which may happen in this particular case, but also in any other case. monthly, if I take an average of 30 days, then the amount is incredibly high, 93 600 crowns for the assistance that this person really needs. And I'm saying, at the same time, he's a college student, and he's still working. And 93,600, I think we agree, that's a service that can't be paid a month. I don't think you can really pay. And in that case, we're actually putting such patients into institutional care. Let's face it, who can afford such a high amount? If it were half of it, if it was his family, we'd still be somewhere worth almost 50,000 a month. And these are the reasons why many go into institutional care because they are unable to pay their assistants financially and be in that home care. And we citizens have been saying for many years that institutional care is only the last option where care cannot be provided in a natural family environment. For many years, we have said that the system of financing social services is not going in the right direction, and we believe that a contribution to care must also be included in the system of financing social services. It's one system. Today for historical reasons, I don't know why it would be good, I think we can agree that it would be one system that would include a care allowance. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Now, about the questions. Some were also mentioned by the Minister, and some are included in the Government's position. The first question is why it is an increase in the care allowance only in the fourth degree. We have some kind of analysis, why just level four? We fear that if the law is passed this way and we avoid the third-degree care allowance, there may be many litigations. This week, we also discussed a medical review service that certainly has something to do with it. The situation isn't good there. We agreed that at least now we'd take the necessary step, make it a little easier, so there wasn't a dramatic fall in assessment doctors. But we agreed on that, and the Minister said that he was going to make a more fundamental change in order for the system to be more flexible and faster. Some of the Members who spoke before me spoke about it. Because in the third degree there is also an addiction to helping another person, it should be said when we sometimes find the same disabled person with the same needs for assistance in both groups. [[9.30 hours]] Another problem may say why a fourth degree allowance wasn't actually granted, only in the third grade, when the fourth will be this favorable and the third grade won't. This is what I think we are able to remove in the debate and we are able to get such analyses into the Ministry of Labour and, as part of the discussion of this bill, we are able to work it out and work it out. I'd like the senator to tell us if it was just a fourth degree or an omission. I don't know why. I think it would be good to have an increase in the contribution in both stages, third and fourth. We, too, have long been drawing attention to the inequalities arising from the assessment of applications for a fourth-degree contribution. The second question I would have to ask the petitioner, and I might also appreciate it if the Minister expressed his position on this. They are persons who are in a residence facility under a social service contract, but they come home regularly. Which is something we should support, which is right. We know from experience that if a person lives in social services and stays in the family for example every weekend or whole vacation, just for a longer time - I repeat that it is right that we should support it - it is unclear how it will be judged. Today they use so-called. denins. This means that for example. When I translate it into number language, today's care allowance at the fourth degree is CZK 13,200 a month, i.e. for permanent residence services. If, for example, the client was at home for 10 days, one denina is CZK 426, so the family is CZK 4,260, because she took care of her relative at home for ten days and did not take advantage of institutional care. If we raise the contribution, but only for those who are in home care, to CZK 19,200, the denina comes out differently. And the question is, how is it going to count? If the family that makes it better gets one denine from the social service facility, that is. The basis for the denin will be actually CZK 426 or the basis will be from the fourth degree care allowance that the family receives, which is CZK 619 a day. It looks insignificant, but in those 10 days it's 2,000 crowns for the family. This proposal doesn't solve it at all. I think we need to be clear if we want to support family care, so in our opinion, they should get the family, the 619 crowns, and not the 30th of what the social services institute receives. This is where we see the preconceivedness or weakness of this proposal. I think that it will be necessary for the Social Committee to focus on this issue in particular and for the future to be clear how much the family will receive if it is about the person he will take home for ten days, for a month, how much he will receive legally, and to make it clear to everyone. Of course, according to our regulations, the social services facility gets that amount less, but by putting two values there, the difference can arise, and I say, ten days a month, it's 2,000 if they took it on vacation and it was 60 days, so the difference is 12,000 for the holidays. This has to do with what is very difficult to talk about, but it is in the government's position, and these are the financial implications. This should also be very clear, and we should ask whether the draft state budget that will come to us by the end of the month, so we as Members do not yet know the parameters of whether or not the roughly 2 billion we are talking about are incorporated there. So that's three questions for the petitioner. Now I would like to sum up the position of the citizens' democrats, as I announced at the beginning of my speech. We want clear and unambiguously written laws that cannot be interpreted in different ways. By chance, this week we had a debate about another Senate bill, where there were also doubts about interpretation. The senators proposed to change it by amending the law, many of us supported it, but mostly one vote, the Chamber of Deputies rejected this bill with a methodical instruction from the Minister. It should also be true in this case, and as the proposal is written today, it is not clear, at least in the part where I was talking about the denines. I think that in such a sensitive area, we should want all these systemic changes and not just the partial changes that are taken out of context. We wish to those who are being cared for and caring for an increase in the care allowance, but not only in the fourth degree. Now I would say the key message of our club on this bill. Caregivers, regardless of whether they are family, friends, informal caregivers, include above all great thanks and respect. As well as formal caregivers, these are those who take care of these fellow citizens in institutional care. They really deserve great thanks and respect. And nothing changes that, for example, our critical voice to some parts of the law, as is the senators, virtually. The Senate has submitted. I repeat that we really want these fellow citizens to spend as much time as possible in their home environment, but this will not only change because, or is not enough to change just that, or to achieve the goal of increasing our care allowance at one stage. We, in our pre-election programmes and in the programme objectives and debates on the social field, have long been talking about allowing families who are caring to be paid for this care, regardless of their contribution to care. In the long term, we compare this activity and compare it to foster care. We pay our foster parents as employees for whom health and social insurance are paid, and one day they will not have one of the lowest pensions. In the long run, we say that families who care for their relatives in the third and fourth levels of addiction are people for us to care for as much as people with disabilities. Because of these informal caregivers, one can live in one's environment, one's loved ones. As a result, social services of a variety of types will not be swelled. This needs to create not only a wage system for informal family caregivers, but also ancillary social services that are not sufficient, and to ensure that they are secure and predictable in funding. This is mainly about enough assistance, outpatient and relief services. We are in the campaign for municipal elections, and I must say that this is one of our priorities, and we are proposing this in many cities and municipalities, because it is one of the basic tasks that our municipalities can perform to ensure sufficient assistance, outpatient and relief services. All this does not have to be done by the state, here it certainly pays to cooperate with the self-government and with those who are able to provide these services that I have mentioned. It's a thoughtful and simple way to get to the compensatory aids. The point is that a person who needs medical services gets to his home in time. I'm going back to the medical review debate. He needs a change, a change in the assessment system. The recognition of invalidity, the granting of invalidity pension, must take place in a number of days. Not in the order of months, but in the order of days. Not in the order of months and years. I would like to emphasise that. I think many of us know more than one case where the recognition of disability pension lasted more than one year. As well as incredible time delays in granting a care allowance or increasing it. They come to my office, regional, people and their families. And I'm certainly not the only one. I think we can agree that that long time is unacceptable. We have to do everything we can to shorten that time. [[9.40 hours]] Social on-the-spot investigations for entitlement to a care allowance must be judged by those who actually understand it, so that they understand what a person is able to do alone and what he needs assistance for. Again, I am aware of some absurd cases where a person started to get out of a wheelchair after a car accident and instead of taking care of enough suitable compensatory aids, officials have made sure that the care allowance has been reduced, even if the lady has not gone four steps yet. What's the confusion here? I was talking about why we don't know why only a fourth-degree care allowance. I have this as a question, but I believe the Senator knows, so it's more for all of us who may not all be following the issue of social services. But you should certainly know that the same disability with the same elements of dependence on the other person is often judged in disunity. There are examples where part of the paraplegics is in the second degree, part in the third, part in the fourth. Depending on their assistance and assistance, they are in exactly the same position. Citizen Democrats want a system change. We want to improve not only people with disabilities, but also their caregivers, whom - I must repeat - we all have a great thank you. Finally, let me sum up what we consider to be a systemic change in this area, because it really is not simple and trivial. First of all, it's a change in the review system. Coincidentally, we've already discussed this in another bill this week, so we don't have to repeat the debate today. Change in the payment of the third and fourth degree care allowance depending on the second person with clear rules. Who pays, if one is home care, time limits for confessions that cannot be extended, etc. But we also have to say that the control of the resources spent in the Social Services Act is not sufficiently implemented. We have to admit that, too. For informal providers, we can imagine a form of honest declaration. Maybe we'll ask why we're checking. 'Cause we're talking about high sums here. For example, it's 14 billion if we're just talking about the higher-level contributions. Furthermore, a change in the recognition and elimination of double-trackness for compensatory aids should be part of systemic changes in this area. Part admits health care, part of the area of work and social affairs. There are known cases where the health insurance company refused to move to a wheelchair in the case of a permanently confined bed. And how can and whether a trolley from an MPSV can be assigned through the employment office at all? It's not clear. Special shoes aren't for summer. It's not spring, summer, autumn, winter or home, but one pair of shoes in two years. For winter shoes, it is eligible for one shoe in three years. And by the diapers, it's about four diapers a day. Another part of the system change should be a change in the system care of carers, and I have already announced this, we want them to receive not social benefits, but a salary to discuss a system similar to that of foster parents, as I said in the previous part of my performance. [[There's a constant noise in the hall!]] Then we want something that we're all calling for, and somehow we're not. I don't think that's what we're arguing about. If I say so - ensuring and clear financing of social services. I'm sure we can agree on that. But when you are debating with social service providers, so as a state, I say to all of us, they do not succeed in making those who provide social services feel that it is clear, predictable and that they can at least plan costs in the medium term - the development and maintenance of the social services they provide. And the last part of the system change should be the change of the social payment system for both outpatient and residential services. We constantly argue about increasing salaries, but we forget that there are also wages in this area. And it is a mistake for us in the Chamber of Deputies, because very often we focus only on salaries and we do not think that many who provide social services do not take wages, but pay, because if the social service is in a non-profit regime, that is, in the non-profit sector, the wages do not have a tabular regime and there is no increase in the change of the tables in their wages. We are also talking about this in the long term, but we have not yet managed to set clear amounts per bed and per hour of work where the seats are occupied, i.e. occupied bed and busy hours of work. [[Several Members are speaking loudly in front of the speaker's desk.]] Those are the basic points...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so that the Prime Minister can finish his performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u14	These are the basic points on which a systemic change in social services should stand. For us, I want to promise that we are ready to debate these points. We have enough experts and we are also able to accelerate the debate so that we do not debate this throughout the parliamentary term. If we're able to eliminate the flaws, it'll show up in the third reading. If not, I'm sorry, but maybe we'll join the government position that we all have at our disposal. The proposal, as the press stands at 160, only solves the partial. And we think we should have more ambition. And I'm saying it's not easy in such a sensitive area and in matters where we agree that we should increase the contribution in the fourth degree of addiction, say critical words here. But I think we need this critical debate in this area. And I say, we are ready to put our experts, our people who have been doing this for a long time, into the debate, and look together with the government, or with a group of senators, for solutions that we could still apply in the context of this press. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Foldyna, Mrs Richterová and Mr Sklenák will respond to factual remarks in this order. Mr. Foldyna has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u16	Thank you, Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would also like to thank Mr Stanjur. I'm very happy for the moment when I've consulted a whole bunch of things here. Across the political spectrum, we agree that things need to be changed, that these things need to be funded. I am convinced that the law will pass here because I have not heard any fundamental criticisms. What's important is time or speed for those people who are waiting for the money. So I would like us to agree to start this change in the next budget, and in order to make it all happen, I know that a comprehensive amendment is being made that the government and Mrs Maláčová have a supplement prepared, so I would like us to make it in 30 days so that the negotiation period is reduced to 30 days and we have done the maximum cross-section of the political spectrum, as I hear it here, so in the next budget there is money for these things. That's where my point is at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u17	Thank you. I have noted your proposal to shorten the deadline by 30 days, which we will then deal with by voting. Mrs Richterová will speak with a factual point, followed by Mr Sklenák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u18	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I listened very carefully to my colleague Stanjura and said twice that, as carers, we pay as foster parents. I would like to emphasise in this factual note that I believe that this is a mistake, because the remuneration of a foster child is taxed, foster parents have to pay social and health insurance from their remuneration. Long-term foster parents, for example, do not have the standard range of leave for recovery, take full responsibility for the damage caused by the child, so if the child causes damage to property in their foster care, there are no security, and other things that are not actually similar to employment. So this is probably a mistake. Indeed, the foster parents are in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u19	Thank you. Mr Sklenák with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I also listened very carefully to my colleague Stanjura, and as I noted his words about systemic change and that it was not systemic, I knew where it was going. Because whoever's been in this room for a long time knows that if someone doesn't want to approve something, but doesn't want to say it so openly, they're going to argue that it's not system enough. So, folks, we've had an increase in care allowance here in the last term. At the time, the House did not discuss this precisely with these arguments, because when the proposal was here, the House even extended the time limit for the discussion that it was necessary to discuss it all so that it would be system enough. So we've been discussing this for so long, until the election period is over, and the care allowance hasn't increased. So please, now the proposal here is essentially the same amount as it was in the last term, to raise CZK 6,000. And it's up to us whether we want to increase the contribution to these people or not. As my colleague Stanjura would say, it's so simple! So let's not argue about systemicity or non-systemicity, let's say if we want to increase our contribution to care, and let's vote on it! From this point of view, I join my colleague Foldyna's proposal to reduce the deadline to 30 days, because we do not need more time for this. Even what the pirates have announced, I will be happy to join in this to increase in the third degree, which can certainly be managed, to agree with the Ministry how much the contribution should be made, or to discuss further changes. But the effectiveness is proposed from 1 January 2019, and I would very much like it if, indeed, from 1 January 2019, these people had increased their care allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u21	Thank you. Mr Stanjura's point of fact, followed by Mrs Maxová's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u22	I'm sorry about my honored colleague Roman Sklenák. By raising his voice here, he can't deny what I said. So, Mr. Sklenák, through the Vice-President, if I didn't think we should approve, I'd suggest it. I clearly said that I was pleased by the Minister's words that we were ready between the first and second reading, to complete the proposal in the second reading, so I don't know who you're appealing to or who you're responding to. The government wrote that it wasn't systemic. Unlike you, we are the opposition party. Then read the statement. We didn't write it. I only asked for a third-care allowance, it's also our proposal for a long time, so don't just tell the pirates, if you say, "The pirates, the citizens' democrats, we've forgotten it, so we'll join in." [[third stage]] It's not important who proposes it first, we don't play who says it first on the microphone. That's what I'm talking about, the proposal doesn't solve the third-degree contribution. And if we're in agreement, we'll be able to figure that out. Then I asked about denins. Is that something that's ruining the bill? It's not clear! And we should tell those families, and I made it clear that we encourage families to take people home, if they can, for a longer period of time. Then I'd like us to be correct in the debate. And perhaps you believe me, Mr. Vice-President, that if I thought the proposal was to be rejected, I would propose it here. I'm not ashamed of my opinions, I can lose by argument, I can lose by vote. But the fact that I criticize - and I said it wasn't easy in this sensitive area, and you knew exactly why. One asks questions, points to confusion or a wrong place, and is immediately accused of not wanting the money from those people. And that is exactly the kind of political debate that I reject. Then let my colleague Sklenák tell me which part of my speech was aimed at rejecting this bill. You can't find anything like that in there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u23	With a point of fact, Mrs Maxová will now speak after her, with a point of fact, Mr Sklenák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u24	Thank you. I would like to respond to a Sklenák of yours, Mr President, for one reason that an increase in the care allowance has been announced here, yes, in the past period, and it has been made within the framework of a major amendment to the Social Services Act, which, as we know all of us here from the past period, and perhaps those who have not been here, has been written as it was written, and I think that most political representatives across the political spectrum within the Social Policy Committee, as well as through consultations with both carers and those who are being cared for, as well as with professional companies and various organisations, we have come to the conclusion that we do not want this written social services law. Therefore, unfortunately, it was not even approved to increase the care allowance in the fourth degree. On the contrary, I, as chairman of the Committee on Social Policy, and also a person who has been intensively concerned with this issue for five years, I think it is not good to shorten the deadline for discussing this, because it is still very easy to do, of course, by the end of the year. And that's for a lot of reasons that, of course, are falling here. I would therefore like to put forward a proposal to reject the shortening of the time, because the expert debate is to be held on the Social Policy Committee after the first reading. Then, of course, after this debate, it will be clear how political representation wants to go. I think it's very clear that there is support for this change, only the question is, how do we go about it, whether we really only raise the fourth degree, or are we going to talk about the third degree, or are we going to appeal to the Ministry to give us a clear timetable for speeding up the admission of care allowance so that patients can live on it -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u25	I'm sorry, Madame, your time has passed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u26	Yes, it was two minutes. Thank you. I'll sign up again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u27	Mr Sklenák, with a factual point, followed by President Bartošek, also with a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u28	Yes, thank you for your word. I don't want to have a debate with my colleague Stanjura from this place, we will certainly explain it when the Steno Protocol comes out of his speech, so I think we'll both look at the sentence that he doesn't rule out that he's finally going to identify with the government's proposal, and that's the government's position is negative. And on this point, I just want to remind you that this is the government's position, not the present one, but the previous one, i.e. She wasn't participating on social democracy. And then one more reminder, basically the reaction to the last performance. Of course, at that time the care allowance was part of other adjustments. But the point was, he went through a commentary procedure, he went through a debate in the House, he went through a discussion on the Social Committee, so even though the House was in a different composition at the time, of course, we've had these discussions. That is why I really think that we are able to decide even in that shortened period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u29	President Bartošek with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. To your colleague, Maxová, through you. This can only be put forward by means of a shortcut proposal and will be decided by a vote. That is how the Rules of Procedure speak. There's no other suggestion. And even after consulting the petitioner, I can say that this is a technical amendment, it is only a change of contributions. This isn't about some broad discussion. That's either we want it or we don't want it, and maybe we can extend it to third degree. That means, I don't see any reason in the short term, I don't see any reason to block it further, because I think the sooner this is discussed, the easier it will be for people in third or fourth degree. So I don't see why not cut the deadline. On the contrary, I support it to shorten it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u31	Yes, Prime Minister. What Mrs Maxová said was understandable, and I also understood it as an expression of her opinion that the deadline should not be reduced. However, we will, of course, vote on the proposal to shorten the deadline as submitted. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová will respond to a point of fact. It will not respond, so we will return to those who are enrolled in the general debate. It is Mrs Richterová's turn, and Mrs Šafránková will speak after her. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to supplement my colleague, Petr Třešňák, for pirát, who briefly tabled our amendment on the very third degree of dependence. We are sure that the many improvements that are in the whole system of support for carers and support for those people who need this care, that the whole range of improvements is necessary, must occur, but at the same time, we should not quite tie it to the approval of the proposal that we are discussing here today. A few points that haven't yet been made here, and they're also very important. Today, in our system, one is assessed how independent one is, how many areas of life he provides for himself or not, and according to this, he gets a specified degree of addiction. But there may still be a discrepancy in how many hours of care he really needs. This criterion, how many hours of helping the environment is necessary for any normal life in the sense that one may need to do all the biological needs, this is something that may be taken into account in some countries because it plays a fundamental role. [[10.00 hours]] We also need to face the fact that the one who is the hardest case in the third grade is often the same as the one who, say, is the lightest case in the fourth grade today. The system will never be completely perfect, which is why we are critically in favour of not becoming too confused and, at least, a little bit higher on the occasion of the fourth stage discussion, even the third one. We have so far tabled an amendment to CZK 11,000 for the third degree. It's for discussion, but we really don't want the difference to grow so crazy and that those who often really just, let's say, coincidence and circumstances may not reach the fourth degree are so much beaten. As far as the complete agreement is concerned, and in order to support community care and care in the home environment, it is only necessary to add that there has been a great dislodgement from social work in the municipalities to establish employment offices, and that is why today in a number of regions there is not even an exact awareness of what all services are missing, how many of these easing services are missing, etc., that has already been said here. It's just that it really needs to be defined as the main thing on the edge, how to really improve the lives of carers and people who need this constant care. One more thing about medical evaluation and the overall fragmentation of assessment. We, as we have it set today, how many different assessments are repeated for various contributions again, are extremely burdensome to the system. In addition to, of course, the need to provide new doctors with medical assessment services, there is certainly room for making the whole thing more effective so that a person who has been arranging for an invalidity pension should not have to handle similar re-assessments for other kinds of benefits in two months just because those are at the employment office. This is also extremely important. I would still like to emphasise a matter which, as a state, does not really work for us, and it makes the most sense, and that is that we support autonomy and reward efforts for it in a systemic way. An example is the training of assistance dogs. When we talk about finance, it is extremely expensive for people who need help to pick up a cell phone that falls, or such help as this can call for help, to provide assistance for a dog, but today it is very difficult to finance his training. I spoke with the manager of the Pestra organization, Mr. Prager. Pastra provides training of an assistance dog for people with these kinds of needs and disabilities in approximately 250,000 crowns, and if we imagine that eight or nine years such a dog can help for four hours a day, it will really save so that there may not be another person, a person, so that we can get around 1.7-1.8 million saved in those eight nine years of life of the dog. We see that this is a system solution, but at the same time, our state can't do this. He can't support things like that. We can't support people in independence. Exactly as has been said here a moment ago, if someone improves a little bit, it can make his life extremely difficult, that he will fall into a lower degree of addiction without warning and without really sure that it is fair and fair. Here with this appeal, to look at it as a necessity of a really great, great connection between the regions and the municipalities with what the needs of their carers and their disabled people are, so, knowing all of this, I would like to ask you once again to consider whether, at the same time as the fourth level increase, I would like to raise the third. The Pirate proposal is a proposal so far, we think, very compromisely at CZK 11,000. Thank you for your attention, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u33	Good morning. And now, next in line in the general debate, I call on Mrs Lucie Šafránková to speak, and Mrs Hana Aulická will prepare herself. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, I'll try to be quite brief. I would like to tell you that the members of the SPD support this Senate proposal to amend the Social Services Act, and because of the severely handicapped citizens who are dependent on the assistance of others, and recently I think that not only me, but I am sure they have also written to you many letters and e-mails requesting the support of this proposal. The Senate bill increases the allowance for care for disabled persons in the fourth degree of dependence from CZK 13,200 to CZK 19,200. These are citizens who cannot do without the assistance of another person in their basic needs of life, they cannot do without help, for example. eat, move from bed to cart, dress or perform personal hygiene. The amount of this care allowance is directly proportional to the quality of the assistance services they can afford to receive and, above all, at a time during which they can use their personal assistant every day. If we approve this change, it will be possible to extend care by approximately 1.5 hours each day instead of the previous four hours a day. Yes, it's still not enough. There are still almost 19 hours left each day during which these people are dependent on the selfless help of their loved ones. The alternative is to stay in institutions of a constitutional type. However, we all feel that, despite quality care and high staff expertise, life in an institution can never be equalized by its quality to life in a home environment. We are a rich society in the heart of Europe. Who else should any society be able to take care of but those who, for this objective reason, are unable to do so without help from others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u35	Thank you, and the next will be Mrs Hana Aulická and Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to speak on this subject. As we may have all listened to, it is not essential to comment on this proposal that no one wants to add or valorise a fourth-degree care allowance. In any case, I think that, as Mr Stanjura said through the President, there are some shortcomings that we should really address on the Committee on Social Policy in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The question may even really be to come up with a comprehensive amendment, which would address not only the fourth stage but also the third level, but it is indeed a question for further discussion, as we will speak. Anyway, I'd like to say that the Senate, as it presented...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u37	I will therefore have to interrupt the negotiations for a moment, and I call on the members of the government to appear in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm interrupting the meeting for three minutes, within 1012 hours, because we don't have a single minister present in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u38	The three-minute break's over. I would once again ask the members of the Government to agree, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and at least one of the members of the Government is at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. Madame, please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although I understand that Minister Took probably doesn't take care of him that much, but we are glad that we can continue at least in his presence. [[as the only one in the government bench]] But just a note -- well, you shouldn't interrupt women, but I understand there was nothing else you could do. [[With a smile.]] I would like to say that the Senate proposal is based on the original proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, respectively. the governments of the Czech Republic from the last parliamentary term, which was in the Chamber of Deputies, and my colleagues and colleagues have already drawn attention to this. But we can argue about the reasons why it was not enough to discuss it. Anyway, he fell under the table at the end of his term. However, the Senate has not adopted the draft as a whole, but we can literally say that it only represented an increase in the contribution in the fourth degree of dependence, as has been said, to domestic care. I must say that we have been talking for a long time about the fact that not only in the fourth, but at least in the third, it should have been a long time ago, as well as various posts, e-mails, phone calls from our citizens, because, as she has said here by your means, Mr President, colleague Maxová, who has drawn attention to the system of carers, that if the carers remain at home and are caring for the person so ill, who is granted the fourth degree, they are de facto giving up their earnings in most cases, and so far our state can do nothing about this, and it is their only income in caring for this person. However, we also have to say that we would like to see that this is not only about increasing or valorisation in domestic care, but also in residential care, because we think that it arises here, and we are helping other inequalities. Maybe there was an example of hospice care. I must say that hospice care is primarily health care facilities, social care is used there really to a small extent, it is mainly the health part that is provided there. But hospice care admits the big problem of being underfunded. And if you take care of yourself at home, you raise your allowance at the fourth grade to 19,200, then by entering hospice care, where there is really one of the best care for such sick people, then the allowance will fall back on the amount that it is. We really don't think that's appropriate, but that's just an example. I think that we really should work together with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to ensure that the inequality is not here. I would like to say that the second fact is that the care provided in the home environment and the services that are, in the field and in the regions, are diverse. It means it's not available anyway, it's not of the same quality. And that is the problem, when, even if there is a trend where more and more domestic care is supported, we have to say that it is not really enough, nor the quality of the care, although, of course, I do not say that they are all the same, but, above all, the availability is really diverse and, above all, it is very small in the small municipalities. So that would probably be for us, and I would just like to say that we will probably be in favour of shortening the thirty days at this time, because we are concerned that this amendment would not be able to be discussed, and we will only be happy if, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we will prepare this comprehensive amendment in conjunction with one of the Social Committee Members, and we will be happy to help our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u40	Well, thank you for the show. With priority, I will ask for a speech by the rapporteur, Lenka Dražilová. Anyway, I'll read two more apologies. I'm sorry, but I'll be right back. So Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes for the whole day for work and today from 9 to 12 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Julius Špičák. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u41	Thank you for the floor. I also want to speak briefly in the debate. We all know that residential social services are very expensive and the only way to take care of our elderly and disabled is to provide services through field care and outpatient services. Moreover, the survey shows that the vast majority of these people are not interested in life in institutions of the constitutional type and want to live in a home environment. To do this, they need two things - an available network of field and outpatient services and funds to pay for these services. Although I also consider this proposal insufficient, I would like to say that we will vote in favour of the proposal going through to the second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u42	Well, thank you. I will now ask Mr Vít Kaňkovský to speak, and Mrs Helena Langšádlová will prepare herself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u43	Good morning, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. We opened up a topic here today that we could talk about for hours and hours, and we would find more and more arguments for how to improve the quality not only of disabled people, but also of their families. I don't think there's even time for this today, and I don't think there's even the right ground for it. I think that the discussions will then, even on a technical level, not only politically, be mainly in the Committee on Social Policy or in other committees. I would like to start but briefly mention to the genesis how this Senate proposal was actually made. A colleague Roman Sklenák, a colleague of Aulická, has also touched this area, but perhaps not everything has been said here. In the last parliamentary term, unfortunately, up to its end, it landed here from the government, and we were part of it at that time, so the proposal of a rather large amendment to the Social Services Act landed from the MPSV, which included as one of the points a real increase in the care allowance in the fourth degree by the same amount as we propose today, virtually. That's what the senators suggest, and we're glad they're suggesting it. [[10.20 hours]] There was then a big, big discussion both in plenary and then in the Committee on Social Policy. It also resulted in a number of discussions with the management of the then MPSV, with Minister Marksová, when we called for her to be politically agreed, or I think that almost 100% political agreement was also a consensus on some other parameters of the amendment. They mainly involved supporting hospice care from the social side, but then there were points with which there was no political agreement. And we told the Minister that we were ready to prepare a comprehensive amendment in cooperation with the MPSV, which would crowd out the points on which there was no consensus, and until the end of the parliamentary term, so that the care allowance could be increased at least in the fourth degree. Unfortunately, the Minister did not accept this at the time. There were further discussions in the Committee on Social Policy, extension of the deadline and so on. The discussion of the government proposal has not been completed. That's what I need to remind you of today. I am very glad that the senators responded to this situation. Again, I'm going to mention this here for the second time this week, he was actually one of the instigators of the late Senator Mr. Plaček, but also other senators - the Senator who is proposing to us today. And I must say that also the Senators for KDU-ČSL, such as Šárka Jelínková, colleague Kantor and others, have very much advocated this bill. I'm grateful to the senators that the Senate proposal was made. And it should also be remembered that we have almost a year since the election, and we don't have a government proposal here. I am glad that the new Minister has spoken today that he is preparing an amendment to the Social Services Act, which should also address other matters, but I am also convinced that this does not mean anything, that it should not mean anything in the sense that we should delay this Senate proposal, which is here today. And if we're talking about the reservations that, and that's also a little absurd, the past government, the spring government, or the winter government have raised on this bill, I have to say that some of them are quite absurd, because if you read the reasons why the spring government rejected the Senate proposal, then one of the arguments why it gives a disagreeable opinion is budget costs. And I'm asking how the budget costs have changed. The government in 2017, in which the government movement YES, the current government movement sat, proposed the exact same increase, which means that the budget costs are exactly the same. For the KDU-ČSL club here I can say that the KDU-ČSL club will support the release of this Senate proposal until further reading. We welcome the senators to bring it up. I will follow up on colleagues who have mentioned that it would be a good thing in the legislative process, without wanting to prolong the legislative process, to discuss at least an increase in the contribution to care in the third degree of dependence. There will need to be some further reflection on some follow-up measures, and here I would agree with the government that this is not entirely linked to the existing legislation, but I think that it is possible to clarify in consultation with the MPSV in a very short period of time and to enrich or reconcile the Senate proposal with the existing legislation. I don't think he's an obstacle again. So the KDU-ČSL Club will support this proposal. At this point, we have three amendments prepared to address an increase in the contribution in the third degree of dependence. It is not going to be any competition, for example, with the pirát' amendment, we are going a little bit different, but I believe that this will be the task of the Social Policy Committee and then considering all of you here, colleagues and colleagues in the House, how much should we increase the allowance for third-degree care. It's been said here, too. The burden of these patients is getting worse at all levels today. Sometimes it's hard to distinguish. She and the distinctive scale aren't entirely clear. Families who take care of such severely handicapped patients in their home environment, indeed, if they are to do this well and if they are to comply with the wishes of their relatives, they really need to increase at that third stage, because even the prices of these services and the rising price of work have gone up. That means even social services are more expensive these days. So we will propose an increase in the third degree care allowance in three variants: an increase of 3,000, 3,500 or 4,000 crowns. But, of course, we are willing to discuss this on the Social Policy Committee and, if necessary, adjust the proposal to second reading. In any case, I would like to say and appeal to the Chamber of Deputies to prove this proposal that families across the Republic are really waiting for, so that we can agree on it, and to postpone the political aspect that has sometimes divided us in the direction of the Social Services Act, but that we can approve the increase, on the one hand, the increase in the contribution in the fourth and third degrees, and, on the other hand, to link the legislation so that it does not become a legislative problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u44	Thank you. I will now ask for a speech by Mrs Langšádlová and Mr Patrik Nacher will prepare himself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to begin by saying that I would also like the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to be here at the moment. And perhaps it is up to us to consider whether we should have this anchored in any way, with all due respect to the Minister of Transport. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, first of all, to thank the senators for taking up this subject and for actually overtaking the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and I was very glad to hear from the Minister that this time it will not happen what has happened in the past several times, that the Ministry, the Government, was against the law with the words that they are preparing their own. And I believe that in this case, it's not really going to happen. I would like to say that the TOP 09 supports this proposal, and we are also open to the debate on increasing the contribution in the third stage, because we know very often that the boundary between the third and fourth levels is very narrow. I would certainly also like to support what has been said here by Mrs Maxová, the Social Committee Chair, which is a question of focusing even more on the support of caring people, because they are really very relieved to allow as many people with disabilities as possible to stay in their home environment. It is in the interest of both themselves and the entire state and the costs, because we know that accommodation facilities have very high costs. That is why I think that both from a human point of view and from an economic point of view, we should create better conditions for carers. It has been said several times here that we have a group of people within the fourth group that need 24 hours a day care, very demanding care, and colleague Stanjura here has calculated that this is the cost of up to 90 thousand crowns. I think it would also be worth considering, even though it cannot be the subject of this legislative proposal, to introduce for the most demanding cases, for those who really need very intensive care 24 hours a day, maybe even the fifth degree, because we know that not everyone in that fourth stage is exactly the same. That, of course, is rather a question of debate. But I would like to sum up that once more, thanks to the Senate. We will be happy to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u46	Thank you. Now here I have a request for one point of fact. Member Jiří Mašek. Subsequently, Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared in the general debate. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond through the President to Mr Langšádlová and to my colleague Stanjura. Both of them mentioned the economy of the matter in their contributions. Here I would like to say that, of course, there are two views that we can definitely agree on, that patients who are treated in their home environment, psychologically for patients and family relationships are clearly better. And as far as the health economy is concerned, it is a health-social border, but I am clearly convinced that every crown that invests in home care will return to institutional care with two crowns. And I think that these two views meet here, and there's really nothing to discuss, and there's no need to make it political, and I'm sure we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u48	Thank you and I therefore now call on Mr Patrik Nacher to speak and Mr Petr Pávek will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I'm going to come forward briefly and tell you why I'm going to support this proposal, and I'm going to say two factual reasons without any kind of pre-election or some sauce. We've been here for years, some of us in this environment, decades, talking about giving home care priority to institutional care, not just from the point of view of money. However, when we look at the money, the average load on the bed in some residential, constitutional environment costs 25-30 grand. Maybe my colleagues will fix me up here. A home with a special regime can climb up to 40,000 a month. We're having fun here if we can raise it to the 19, so we're barely halfway there. And now we're just talking about the money, not the result, and what effect it has on mental, psychological, etc., as my colleague spoke about it. The second reason is that this contribution, which has been paid since 2007, has, in fact, reached the twelfth year only once in 2016, by 10 percent. That means, on average, we're talking about an increase to, say, 0.8 percentage points per year. This is far from covering the increase in social services costs that have increased over the last 12 years. In other words, I think that I feel that the increase of CZK 6,000 to CZK 19,200 in the fourth degree is a stepping stone to talk about the increase in the third degree, perhaps in the second degree, so that we can straighten out the deficit that was created here, with the fact that it is one of the few contributions, if you look at it, which has been graduated in 11 or 12 years only once. The only thing I'm a little sorry about, and that's the conclusion, is that it seems kind of important to me, and there's a half-empty O.R. Otherwise, thank you for your attention - those sitting here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u50	Thank you. And now, with Mrs Hana Aulická's point of fact, please, and then Mr Petr Pávek will be prepared if we do not find any real ones. Your two minutes. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Really only briefly through you to a colleague named Nacher. I would just like to say that social services since 2013, yes, there has been a huge increase - three times - in the amount that has increased in the state budget, but we can talk about it openly, that around 5 billion, around which it was around in 2012, so it was heavily underfunded. That means social services, as they financed, were really badly off, regardless of the fact that over the last two years there has been an increase of 43 percent on wages, and for that we are all probably grateful, and the wages have been a problem at all to finance this year in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u52	Thank you and I would now ask Mr Petr Pávek to speak and Mr Válek will prepare himself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u53	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to convey to you the opinion of the Mayors and Independents Club. We will support this Senate amendment. We thank the Senate for taking up this delicate subject that society has been waiting for so long. This is a technical amendment, which means it does not have the ambition to address the whole issue systemically. The way we see it is that we are going to take a very constructive stand on proposals to increase our contribution to the third degree, and if the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs manages to present a novel in the future, which is clear, understandable, which is not too complicated and captures the whole issue systemically, we are ready for a constructive debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u54	Thank you. I will now ask for Mr Válek's speech and Mr Aleš Juchelka is the last to be applied for. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the opinion of TOP 09 has been expressed and I would like to draw attention to two, respectively. Three points. While we are talking about social contributions, we have been discussing something that is a social-health border, and the social-health border here is not well addressed. I'll explain it on the example of Minister Took. I'm glad he's here. He should be here, too, Minister of Health. And the Minister of Transport should be here for that reason, and I expected colleagues to say it from the fast, a number of ambulance calls are happening not for health reasons, but for social reasons - even for those homes. The ambulances are on the roads, and we're at the Minister's. High-quality roads allow them to drive fast. Just to support the government. However, we must realise that increasing contributions has an impact on health care in those patients. That's just the way it is! The care they provide in their families is not only social care, it is not only social assistance, but they also provide health care, because in their retirement homes they have not only social but also health care. If the family cares for the patient, the patient who is in a difficult state, she actually cares for him, partially subjugates health care to the extent that he is able to provide it. I therefore believe that this needs to be taken into account, and I would very much appreciate it if, in the next discussion on this issue, we would really discuss it in cooperation with the Health Committee and treat it as a care that is at the edge of social and health care. It's perfectly clear to me, and it was said here in the criminal code discussion that, centrally, if we increase our contributions, of course, we're going to add to the needy, and there's definitely a group that doesn't need this increase for any reason just because it has a good financial family background, but we can't control this centrally, and we need to centrally, as we did in the criminal code, to think, above all, of those who are the most vulnerable, who are needed, and those who can and can't do it any other way than across the board. We can then do this individually at the level of, say, cities, municipalities, if the cities and municipalities have funds for this individualization. Generally, if the care of these clients of category three and four is transferred to home care, not only does their social comfort increase, but in my opinion and in the opinion of all the studies or professional work I know, their health is improved as well, because the psyche has a great impact on the health condition. So both of these areas are still connected, and that's what we should be thinking. That is why I strongly support this proposal and also support the proposal of the pirát concerning the third category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u56	Thank you and Mr Aleš Juchelka is the last to be heard in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I, too, thank you very much for the Senate bill, and I also strongly support it, and I want to say why I am in favour of increasing it. Firstly, because social services are underfunded even at this time. I see it practically in the fact that, for example, when someone cares for a person close to them and pays for assistance, in the overwhelming majority, the assistant always comes and in the fourth degree of disability it is very difficult to turn the person, and even though there is a need for a suspension system for bathing etc., I would appeal too much to the fact that there may be a larger part of the male population where those people in the fourth degree of disability simply need it more. That means that social services are actually out-of-date. I also think that raising will help respectful care. We know very well that the one who cares for the person close to him needs to rest himself, he needs to breathe himself, he needs to put the child in his hands where he trusts the staff, the doctors, the social workers, and he just needs to relax for a little while from the 24-hour hard work. I think it can help to develop and pay more. [[10.40 hours]] I would also like to appeal to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, together with the Ministry of Health, because it is indeed a matter of socio-health boundaries. A lot of people in the fourth degree of disability need not only social services but, of course, health services. And there is a need to finally define what a social health bed is, a contribution to it, which, of course, is related to health insurance. Next item in medical review. I still don't understand why it doesn't work methodically or systemically when, for example, people with limb amputation have to go to review doctors every five years about whether or not they've grown the limb. I think if we loosen our system hands to review doctors, their service will accelerate. This is also related to support, as my colleague Olga Richterová said through Mr President, that there is actually a very fine line between the third and fourth levels of disability. Anyone who's ever had this close at home knows about it. I, of course, also support and will be very happy if amendments come in order to increase the third-level contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u58	Thank you. I do not have an application for a general debate, but I have a factual point here, so Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very glad that, against the original position of the government, the spring government, as it was called, which has been rejected, it seems at this moment that this law will have support across the Chamber of Deputies. I think it's already been thanked to the senators that they've raised the subject. I believe that Members will really support him. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. Yes, it was the government of social democracy that took the first steps to strengthen domestic care so that we could take care of the weakest, the most needy, people with disabilities at different levels so that we could take care of them at home. But it's got a "but." This is where you need to think about the carers, too. And I think that should be part of the comprehensive proposal promised by the Minister. Because it's not easy, it's not just about money, it's about time, it's about energy. Who we've been through at home, we all know. Maybe one more sentence. I was very pleased to hear from President Stanjura that there is also a need to think about how to compare salaries and wages in relation to carers. The union's been trying to do that the whole time. Thank you for bringing the ODS forward. I hope we finally make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u60	Thank you. I'll look around the O.R. to see if anyone else has any interest in getting off. I don't see anyone. I am ending the general debate. I ask whether there is interest from the applicant's representative or from the rapporteur in the final words. So, Senator Emilie Třísková. Please, you have the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u61	Mr President, honourable and kind Members, first of all, I would like to thank you very much for the debate and for the words that have fallen here. I believe that the new honourable Minister has taken a lot of things to the right end and that we will gradually move towards making people in the home environment, but also in institutional care and caregivers who provide for our citizens, live easier. I would also like to respond to the fact that the Senate proposal aimed mainly at dealing with people with the highest level of support. Of course, we are also aware of problems at other levels, but the law on specialized home hospice care has been passed, of course, and these words have been said that although we have two ministries, the link between social and health services is very important. So I believe that in this regard it will be possible to create laws such that care can be ensured. I would like to go back to what is at all about the availability of social services. The point has been that there is no availability everywhere, but I would like to say who other than the mayors of cities and municipalities, the regional authorities are those who must be able to network, they must know the needs in the field, there are community plans, there are community planning. I know places in our state, regions, districts where social and health services already work within entire districts, so I do not see this care tragically on the other hand, but we still need to move forward. I would also like to say that I myself have professional experience in field social services, health services, and the needs of our people, including caring families -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u62	I'm sorry, Senator. I'm asking for peace of mind so the senator can express herself calmly. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u63	Thank you. What would I say in conclusion? That we approve of giving our citizen a chance to take care of him at a time when he cannot be cared for by his family and is a lying human, he needs support to arrange a social service that will provide him with the essential needs of life. Thank you once again to all of you and I believe in the support of this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u64	Thank you, Madam Senator. The plaintiff is not interested in the final word. We will take the vote. I'll call the MPs to the ballroom. I'll sing. We do not have a motion to return or refuse, so we will deal with the motion on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. I'll read what we're going to vote on. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. I ask you: does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't register such a proposal. We will take the vote. I will read again what we will be voting on. The proposal is: who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 172, 163 Members registered, 6 abstained for 157, the proposal was adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone from the diaper have a motion for a commandment to the next committee or committees to discuss? Yes, Mr. Válek. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u65	I think it would be appropriate for this proposal to be discussed by the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u66	So it's the health committee. I wonder if there's another suggestion. I don't register another proposal. We're gonna vote, and I'm gonna read what we're gonna vote on. Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the health committee? Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 173, 163 Members registered, 99 against 1, 63 abstained. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Health Committee as another committee. There's Mr. Sklenák's request to unsubscribe, so I'm going to sign you all out and please sign up again with your voting cards. [[10.50 hours]] Now, here we are in the general debate, we have a proposal to shorten the deadline. So we're gonna have one more vote. Mr Foldyna and Mr Sklenák had the same proposal to shorten the 30-day time limit. So we're going to vote on whether you agree to cut the deadline for 30 days. I'm opening the vote. Anyone in favor, press the button, raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 174, 155 Members signed in, for 81, against 1, detained 73, the proposal was adopted. So the hearing period will be reduced by 30 days. I'm done discussing this press. The Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal requested a performance with priority rights. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u67	Hello, I just didn't want to interrupt the discussion while it was going on. However, I have here a procedural remark on the discussion of whether or not there should be members of the government and who. According to the current resolution number 31 of 1996, which we confirmed by our resolution number 18 on 28 November 2017, the Chamber of Deputies states that - paragraph 3 - the relevant members of the Government will participate in the discussion of the individual items of the agenda under its responsibility. I don't know if this participation should be interpreted as having the secretary sitting here chained to the bench, or whether it is enough for us to participate in the way he is expressed, for example, at the beginning or at the end. I guess that's for some other discussion. However, we have already established that. So much for responding to Mrs Langšádlová through you, Mr President, and to discussing whether ministers should be here and whether they should be here under their jurisdiction. I think that the point was placed firmly in advance, so it was known that it would be discussed here, and in that case I would expect ministers to participate within their remit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u68	Well, thank you for the show. Now the President of the House of Radek Vondráček has asked for the floor. So please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u69	Thank you for the floor. Of course, we are aware of the resolution. We're all reading it, constantly, we've got it on our nightstands. This is a Senate proposal. I remind you, this is from the Senate. For almost five years now, I have been in the House for a certain custom, yes, the relevant minister should be on his proposal. Here, if you look back at the vote on the committees, the social as a guarantee has been approved. But, of course, it's too much for health care. And sometimes it is difficult to determine which scope it is for those parliamentary or senate proposals. It could be several ministries. Perhaps it would be good to ask for the opinion of the legislative department. I am telling you my personal opinion that I might consider this interpretation again - either that it is not customary or that it may be more extensive than I feel. So I think today's hearing was fine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u70	Now, I have priority rights here. So first, the Prime Minister of the Chamber of Deputies... Well, the order is that you were the first, Mr. Chairman Stanjur, but if you agree? [[An agreement on the order between the speakers.]] Then President Bartošek and Vice-President of the House of Pikal. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u71	Well, since we've started the debate, I think it's the duty of ministers to be at the Chamber of Deputies. And in this parliamentary term, in particular, there is one, two. [[He's looking at the government benches.]] Hats off, now there's four ministers, if I'm not mistaken. They're taking turns on the clock, ending their point, and they're gone. I agree with the fact that many bills have overlapped in several areas. There's no doubt it's both social and health care. And if you want to ask after what's the position of the particular resort, the minister just isn't here. It just isn't. The previous bill, but the Minister of Finance was part of it, also touched the state budget. So I commend the secretary for being here. But the fact that we'll be happy that the minister will come to his point and then he'll get lost again and apologize for work reasons... I think it is the duty of the members of the Government to be at the Chamber of Deputies. And if we remember what it looks like every Thursday morning, when there's supposed to be an interpelation, then I suggest that the next grémia be read in terms of efficiency - many call for the effectiveness of the Chamber of Deputies - to read the ministers present at the interviews. That's a much shorter list than the absent list. Then you say: there is little intervention; there are few Members. But when we see that lousy turnout, who do we interpel? I am not one of those who can unload two minutes here to learn from the President or the President: you will be answered within a legal period of 30 days. Then let's cancel the oral questioning. Let's just leave it in writing. Then it makes sense, then the debate can take place, if necessary, without ministers, so that others can express themselves. Now it is not about the interpretation of the resolution, whether more extensive or not, we can argue about it, but about some normal approach, or ministers to discuss bills, even if they are not their own. Like it's not their duty to work? Is he tired of doing another job? I don't think so. I have always said for us, and we insist that if someone is on a foreign business trip, defends the interests of the Czech Republic abroad, we certainly all understand an apology. There's no question about that. This means, for example, if the Prime Minister is at the European Council on Thursday, no one can criticize that he is not at the Prime Minister's interpellation. We understand each other. But I say again, look at yesterday, look at the list of people present. Many of us did not interpel, because speaking to the absent minister is not effective, thanks to the long list of apologies. And even though the interview last night was less than thirty, I don't know the exact number, so look at how many of the less than thirty colleagues and colleagues have spoken to an absent member of the government. And I don't think he's okay, and I don't think anyone can enjoy it. And we've been talking about this for years: let's talk about changing the format of the interpellation. It didn't happen. So I'm saying for us that if the chairman doesn't do it or the president of the strongest club, I'll call it in. Let's talk about it. Make it attractive to voters, make it attractive to the media, make it attractive to the government and to the opposition. That, of course, makes sense. If you look at the British Parliament, even for us who do not live in British politics, interpelations in the British Parliament are quite entertaining. If anybody's having fun here, hat off, but I'm sure he's in a total minority in the Chamber of Deputies when he's enjoying the interview. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u72	Well, I'd like to tell the senator and rapporteur here that we've already finished that point, he's already been through the first reading, so you may as well, if... there's no need for you to sit here in some way, because we've already finished that point, he's already been through the first reading. [[Laughing and restlessness in the Chamber]] Now we're doing something else just to.... No, so maybe an uninformed person could lose track of the moment we're in. [[Laughing and restlessness in the Chamber]] So we thank the Senator very much for visiting us here, and now with priority rights the President of the KDU-ČSL MP Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u73	Thank you. Whether or not the ministers are to be present at the meeting. We are based on the basic premise that the government is accountable to the Chamber of Deputies, and if there is no reason for the minister to be gone, then the entire government should be present here. That is the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I am opposed to loosening up the Rules of Procedure in that we are going to have fun, that a Senate bill has come or that a regional legislative initiative has come, or that we have a mere parliamentary proposal here, and in that case, ministers are not supposed to be here. That's not the right approach. And I also appreciate the Minister of Finance's participation in this point because it concerns her, and I would appreciate the presence of all ministers involved in any bill so that the House can ask questions. I consider this to be the role of the Government and to fulfil it with regard to the Chamber of Deputies. This means that I take the view that if the law is being discussed and if it concerns a ministry, the minister representing this ministry is to be present here because he is accountable to the House and is to answer questions. And I would not dodge because every dilution of these Rules reduces the dignity of the Chamber of Deputies. It is about some college, it is about mutual respect, it is about the fact that Members have the right to ask questions and have the right to get an answer. It is therefore important for ministers to be present here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u74	Well, thank you, and now here is the last Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u75	Thank you. I didn't want to start this debate just in the middle of discussing the point so we wouldn't interrupt it, so we could move it on and so on, because I was expecting it to open up. Let me respond to some of the things that have been said here. As far as the attractiveness of the intercession is concerned, I'm sure it's appropriate. I presided over it yesterday. Most of the interventions were really aimed at absent ministers or ministers. Honor those who came. Thank you. As far as the resolution is concerned, and if ministers are to be present here only on their government proposal, or perhaps it is not so mandatory for those senators, I would very much like to turn against that. I think that the competence of ministers, or their scope, is determined by a competence law. And it doesn't matter if it's a government proposal, whether it's a parliamentary proposal, whether it's a Senate proposal, or whether it's a government proposal or where it's from. If the proposal falls within the competence of the minister, I expect the minister to be here for the hearing, and in some way attend the hearing. That's what I'd like to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u76	Thank you. I'll read three apologies. The engineer Radim Fiala apologizes until the end of the day for work reasons. Furthermore, Mr František Vácha apologises between 10:32 and 14:00 for health reasons, and Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes from 11:00 to the end of the day. And now I'm handing over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-21-ps2017-019-08-001-042.u77	Hello. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
