ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-014-077.u1	77. Mr Lukáš Černohorský proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 89/2012 Sb., Civil Code, as amended / House print 270/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. We received the Government's position as House Press 270/1. I would like to prosit Mr Lukáš Černohorský to present the proposal in favour of the appellant. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-014-077.u2	Hello, esteemed colleagues. I apologize in advance, I will now be a little bit of a legally technical speech on the draft amendment to Section 3066 of the Civil Code, but I would like you to pay my attention, please, because the proposal concerns property of great value and it is very important to discuss it and accept it this year. [[unintelligible]] First, allow me to explain the original meaning of Section 3066. The explanatory memorandum to the Civil Code in force states that the purpose of this provision is to mitigate the risk of legalising certain questionable property relationships established in the 1990s. I stress that this is therefore an official explanatory memorandum to the Civil Code, which was approved by both the Government and Parliament in 2012 and which, of course, still applies. The risk of legalisation of illegally acquired property is mitigated by the Civil Code in Section 3066 by the provision that real estate cannot be held exceptionally until 5 years after the application of the Civil Code, i.e. to day 1. 1. 2019. The proposed amendment completely adopts this solution and only extends the minimum time necessary for extraordinary maintenance by 5 years, until 1. 1. 2024. This extension is necessary in order to give the competent authorities sufficient room to clarify the questionable privatisations of the second half of the 1990s and subsequent years. As soon as the assets in question are held extra, there will be no way to recover the assets illegally privatised. That is why I am asking you to support my proposal, which can effectively prevent this. I would also like to respond briefly to the Government's dissenting position on my proposal. In a misleading way, the Government's position combines two similar but different legal concepts, an honest holding and an honest intention of the holder. The condition of extraordinary maintenance is not the honesty of possession, as the government claims, but only the honesty of the intention of the holder, which is assumed, unless proven otherwise. Here it is necessary to explain that a dishonest holder can also be a person who does not know only by negligence that he is not a genuine owner, e.g. because of a breach of the law in privatisation. Therefore, it is sufficient for any holder, honest and thus in quotes to be dishonest, i.e. sloppy, only that he had no dishonest intention or dishonest intention was not proven by a lawsuit. However, the holder's dishonest intention in any dispute must be demonstrated by the applicant seeking to determine his or her ownership against the holder. In doing so, as you well know, proving intent in practice is very difficult and often quite impossible. Moreover, the dishonest intention of the first acquirer does not have to mean the dishonest intention of any other acquirer, respectively. holders. [[15.20 hours]] So the government's view is only one possible legal opinion, and not only do I think this view is wrong. I may mention, in particular, the recently published opinion of the President of the Senate of the Supreme Court, Mr JUDr. Jiří Spáčil, who confirms that it is not possible to confuse the dishonest possession and the dishonest intention of the holder, as the government is confusing this in its opinion. Therefore, the government's legal opinion cannot be relied upon in this case when it is at least controversial and is not binding on the court in any way. Of course, in specific disputes, the court will always decide, including the Supreme Court, and not the government. My proposal merely extends the original intention of the government, which included Section 3066 in the Civil Code itself. It is surprising, therefore, that the current government, with the possible legalization of disputed privatisation transfers, no longer has a problem, and now even claims that it has never been a problem. As I said here at the outset, this Government's position is in manifest conflict with the explanatory memorandum to the Civil Code in force. Unfortunately, the problem to be addressed by the provisions of § 3066 is still not solved because some privatisation cases have not yet been closed. So I repeat that if on day 1. 1. 2019 there will be extraordinary maintenance of illegally privatized property, another solution to these cases will be mere academic exercise without any real effect. Today's vote is therefore necessary to give the competent authorities the time to decide and thus to establish legal certainty about the beneficial owners of the property concerned. On the contrary, if we do not approve the proposal today, we will be assured that, after the end of this year, the effects of dubious privatisations will never be corrected, even if the courts ultimately decide that they have broken the law and the privatisation contracts are invalid. Dear colleagues, thank you in advance for your support for this important proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-014-077.u3	Well, thank you, plaintiff. And now I'm going to read two apologies. Madam Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová apologizes at the afternoon meeting today for working reasons, and Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologises between 16.30 and 19 hours for working reasons. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-014-077.u4	Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, Dear rapporteur, Ladies and Gentlemen, the content of the proposal has, I presume, been made clear to you by Mr Černohorský as a draftsman. In my role as rapporteur, I should merely draw attention to the Government's position which is disagreeable on this bill. The government has recommended to disagree, and I will try to quote the reasons for which the government recommends to say this opposition, and then, if necessary, I will sign up in a general debate on why I believe that the government is right in this case. But now the government's position. 1. The Government does not consider it appropriate to amend the legislation in question in the proposed way, while it does not consider the scope and method of reasoning of the proposed changes in the explanatory memorandum sufficient, in particular in the context of a situation where the proposal for an amendment refers to questionable property relations without specifying them. 2. The Government points out that the Institute of Extraordinary Endurance is not eligible to protect suspicious transfers from the turn of the 20th and 21st centuries, as the proposal wrongly assumes. The insurance against possible abuse is a requirement of honesty of possession, respectively. the absence of dishonest intent. Its deficiency can be demonstrated at any time after the expiry of the period laid down in the transitional provision, so there is no need to prolong it. The proposal is based on the incorrect assumption that additional time is needed to clarify the questionable assets. However, the period required for extraordinary maintenance of modified partial netting options before 1 January 2014 in the case of immovable property not more than 1 January 1999, i.e. 15 years, does not have the character of a limitation period or an exclusivity period or, where applicable, a time limit which would otherwise make it impossible or make it difficult to contest or discuss a lack of conditions for exceptional maintenance. In fact, a period of five years under the transitional provision only results in more stringent standards being applied to earlier cases complying with the new arrangements for extraordinary maintenance. 3. The government disagrees with the claim of the petitioner that the Institute of Extraordinary Endurance would fall on many privatization things. In most such cases, there is no problem with finding a legal title, but the conditions of extraordinary maintenance cannot be met precisely because dishonest intent is shown. Extraordinary maintenance shall be used by the holder in cases where the legal title cannot be traced, not in cases where an honest holding is lacking. The Government is therefore of the opinion that the proposed legislation would not lead to the objective for which the petitioner submits the proposal. On the contrary, the proposal would substantially postpone the establishment of legal certainty in legitimate cases on which the legislation of exceptional maintenance is aimed. Such cases are, in particular, previously unsolvable practical situations, such as 50 or more years of possession, or even more. also derived from legal predecessors, ownership rights to mismeasured or marked land. 4. From a legislative technical point of view, the Government points out that according to Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As a general rule, 5 legislative rules of the Government do not amend transitional provisions because they regulate legal relations that began before the new legislation became effective, and thus the amendment to their regulation significantly undermines the legal certainty of the addressees of the legal standard and the principles of legitimate expectations and the predictability of the law. The government also has reservations for insufficient processing of the explanatory memorandum, in which it lacks a more detailed analysis or relevant argument that would support the need to extend the deadline for the exceptional maintenance of immovable property. So much government opinion and so much my position as rapporteur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-014-077.u5	Thank you. I'll read another apology. Mr Ladislav Okleštěk apologises between 15.30 and 19 hours for work reasons. I am now opening a general debate in which I have Mr Dominik Feri signed up. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-014-077.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government present, the gallery for the public is crowded, I assume it will not be due to extraordinary stamina, so I will try to be brief. [[There's no one at the gallery. Glee in the hall.]] Let me start with a little parallel. While, in the second amendment to the Civil Code, we are dealing with a matter on which everyone has a certain, let's say, lay insit opinion and some opinion, it is a matter of more or less such value, so in this amendment we are dealing with absolute property rights, rights in fact. This is more or less a matter of legal, professional and unfortunately not of the general part of the explanatory report on this proposal, nor of the specific part of the explanatory report, nor of the applicant's withdrawal is it given that this proposal is consulted with the professional public. This means that I have therefore asked some leading Czech civilians for an opinion on this matter and I will allow you to familiarise yourself with three opinions. The first will be the position of profesor Karel Eliáš, the leader of the private law recodification, who wrote me the following - I will only select an excerpt: If I remember, a five-year delay granted political-right objections pointing to strange property operations from the communism era, as well as the political left pointing out similarly strange operations from the privatization period in the early 1990s. Undoubtedly the property held could be held under the Civil Code of 1964. The Civil Code, meaning the new Civil Code, has a different design and puts the dubious holder at a disadvantage compared to the previous regulation. The difference between proper and exceptional maintenance is that, in the event of proper maintenance, the denier must prove that the holder was not in good faith, while in the event of exceptional maintenance, the denier must prove the holder's evil intention. After all, this has already been brought closer by the plaintiff. However, even if the transitional period does not extend, where there has been criminal activity, the intent will always prove, the evil intent, the dishonest intent. I think five years is enough. Considering the objection of questionable holdings, no one forced the real owner to look bitterly at everything for 20 years, he could defend himself in time and claim his ownership. Even for him, the constitutional rule contained in Article 11 of the Charter applies that he undertakes ownership. The argument under way by pending legal proceedings is not correct in the light of Section 995 of the Civil Code. Paragraph 995 states the following: If the action of invading possession or its honesty has been granted, the honest holder shall be regarded as dishonest at the latest from the time the action was served. This then has some practical factual legal implications, which means it cannot enjoy, for example, fruits, it can be sued for giving up unwarranted enrichment and so on. Furthermore, Professor Karel Eliáš adds: In this context, it should be pointed out that the breach of the existing rule is likely to affect the state by means of widespread intervention in legal conditions, both massively and in those in which the State does not participate, quite brutally, legal certainty and legitimate expectations of the receptionists of the standard. So much for profesor Eliáš, the author of the Civil Code, the new Civil Code. Furthermore, Dr. Bezouška of Olomouc's position: I think the possibility of proving dishonest intent is sufficient insurance. Although Section 1095 of the Civil Code does not require the strictest degree of good faith and we are satisfied with the negative definition of honesty, we are talking about what the explanatory report calls questionable privatisations and so on. I would hardly accept the conclusion that the acquirer acted with honest intent. There's another aspect to it. If these cases have already been investigated by law enforcement authorities, possibly even before a court of law, it can be considered that the holder has already lost good faith, he is presented with evidence that raises strong doubts in a reasonable person, and in addition, there is - again, Dr. Bezouška refers to that section 995, loss of good faith, delivery of the action, so in these cases we do not have to talk about the possibilities of perseverance. But what the plaintiff has completely passed away is the stamina in which the old Civil Code represented him. On top of that, Dr. Bezouška says: Everything needs to be perceived in comparison with the old legislation. According to her, ownership of the immovable property could be maintained in the ten-year period, even if the acquisition contract was invalid. So the rightful holder, in the current terminology of an honest holder who acquired the case by 2003, even on the basis of an invalid title, held the right of ownership before the new Civil Code became effective. In this situation, it is illusion that perhaps the proposed proposal could address something that occurred in the 1990s or at the beginning of this millennium. That's already closed. It follows that the current transitional rule in Section 3066 of the Civil Code addresses almost an empty set of cases. There are those who are unable to state any legal reason for the acquisition or the alleged one, so certainly not those who rely on any privatization title. The new Civil Code has put an extraordinary hold on these people, and these changes would be affected. These are mostly cases of years of totalitarianism, when law, acquisition and similar approaches were made in a variety of ways. And making it harder for these people to be protected through extraordinary perseverance for another five years doesn't seem fair to me, especially if the state is to benefit at their expense. And the final statement from Professor Melzer of Brno, who answered me: One. From a constitutional point of view, it is completely unacceptable if the extension of the maintenance period should also apply to cases where this deadline would have expired under the existing regulations. In a specific case, this proposal would be inadmissiblely retrospective, an intervention in legal certainty as one of the fundamental values of the rule of law if it became effective 1. 1. 2019. In such a case, there would also be unacceptable interference with the acquired right of ownership, Article 11 of the Charter. That is what the petitioner is aware of, yet he is presenting this proposal. Two. The reasons for this proposal are not convincing. If it is to deal with unfairly acquired assets in the context of privatization manipulation, then in such cases extraordinary maintenance is also excluded. In fact, an unfair acquisition implies a breach of privatization rules, especially in cases of corruption. In these cases, however, there is a so-called dishonest intention within the meaning of Section 1095 of the Civil Code. This is also true when this is discovered after 1. 1. 2019. I have taken the liberty of summing this up and so explaining why we cannot support this proposal. One. The vast majority of the assets privatized in the 1990s are not affected by extraordinary maintenance, since the maintenance of the ownership of the property mostly relies on the alleged legal reason and therefore has already been held under the old Civil Code. Two. If there were any situation in which any person was unable to demonstrate the legal grounds for possession of ownership, these would be challenged, for example, by a determining action that would be granted, then the § 995 will be activated again, and since the receipt of the action the holder is a holder of dishonest property, and according to the circumstances, the right will not be able to endure extremely, even though, of course, there are questions of judicatorial interpretation. Three. For whom dishonest intent is shown, it simply does not last extremely, and it is given directly from the text of the law. Four. In the case of criminal activity in later privatisations, this is undoubtedly a dishonest intention, and the holder simply does not have the right to property. And five. The proposal, and the government's opinion mentions it very marginally, can damage a significant number of ordinary citizens, proper holders. So, for example, those who acquired the property without dishonest intent for totalitarianism and cannot trace any proper legal title to acquire possession. We would delay those five years from the possibility of effective protection of their holdings. This adverse situation would then have to be difficult to overcome in certain cases in the context of a summons by virtue of the principles of private law. And the hint is also apparent in the case law of the Supreme Court, which has become quite stable here in this matter. I would like to quote here a part of the judgment of 30 May 2018, in which the Supreme Court held the following: It is clear, however, that an arrangement which does not allow for a long-term, in a case pending a dispute between participants of at least 35 years, to be held not in dishonest intent to comply with the state of law, and this does not correspond to the traditional principles of private law. [[15.40 hours]] So if we were to approve here, it would have to be in the individual cases... To imagine, if I make something up, in the 1970s someone bought a garden and the seller said, "I'll take it to some state notary," he wouldn't do so, the buyer in good faith, normally holds them, but according to the old Civil Code, there was no extraordinary perseverance at the time, he lacks legal reason, which makes it impossible to endure in any way. Well, he wouldn't be able to defend himself in relation to this defining lawsuit right here, and he wouldn't be able to say, "Look, I'm already after 1. 1. 2019 lasted extremely well." So actually this proposal would be a whip of tens, hundreds, thousands of these people. Therefore, the proposal would probably have come to an end when we follow the purpose, only those holders who do not demonstrate the legal basis on which their holding is based, so that they did not hold up as entitled holders as provided for in the old Civil Code, and they will be in the privatisation circuit at the very minimum, because most of them, the overwhelming majority of them will rely on their claim, or their possession, on some privatization title. On the other hand, it would damage, as I mentioned, a large number of honest holders who often did not even participate in privatisation. For this reason, we cannot support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-014-077.u7	That was Mr. Feri. Mr Benda, rapporteur, is now reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-014-077.u8	Mr Vice-President, draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, I did not wish to take advantage of my position as rapporteur, I come here as a simple Member of Benda with the announcement that, on behalf of the ODS, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL, we are vetoing the negotiations under Section 90. I may add so much to this: good intentions are often paved the way to hell. I even trust the translator that he may have encountered a problem where someone tried to tell him that the problem is solvable in this way. But, in my opinion, this is not the way to do legislation and especially not legislation in the area of civil law and the Civil Code. These are standards that have an incredible amount of strings that are just tied together, these things have some logic in there, and I can't enter them by making up my mind that I have to change something by the end of the year. With all due respect to the plaintiff, this is simply not the way to work with civil law. That's why I suggest a veto. That is why I will recommend this Chamber of Deputies, and at the same time I suggest that we reject the bill at first reading, because, after the veto is applied, it will not be possible to discuss this under Section 90, because I believe that these are typically things to be discussed on some broad gremias, where we have judges, theorists, others, and not that they will be fired on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and because a nice brand of solutions to privatization projects from the turn of the century will stick to it, we will think that it can pass through this Chamber of Deputies. I believe that the Chamber of Deputies is so judgmental that not every nice brand means real solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-014-077.u9	I reflect your proposal, so I reflect that there is a veto of three parliamentary clubs here, so I would like to point out that, according to paragraph three, the proposal under paragraph two cannot be discussed in order to agree with the proposal at first reading. So we'll continue the negotiations in the standard way. Now he has the word... [[The promoter of Montenegro stands ready at the microphone.]] Well, you do, but Mr. Dominik Feri came forward with a point of fact, so he should take precedence if he doesn't give you the room voluntarily... [[It won't.]] And then a Member of Montenegro. So, Mr. Feri to the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-014-077.u10	Thank you for him, Mr Vice-President. Seriously, what just happened. By applying the veto, this proposal will not be able to be discussed, which I would recommend to the plaintiff that he withdraw it, because assuming that we discuss it and accept it, we will adopt here a law that will be retroactive right now. So I suggest you pull it back, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-014-077.u11	Please, you have the floor. Mr. Cernohorsky.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-014-077.u12	That is exactly what I was about to do, but you just beat me to a point of fact through Mr President. As I was saying at the beginning, this amendment must be adopted by the end of the year. And by applying the veto, unfortunately, we cannot do this. I would just have had a little time to respond, through Mr President, to Mr Benda. This matter was not meant to address a problem that we would probably be thinking about here in April together philosophically, but rather to allow it to be resolved. At this point, though I hate to withdraw my proposal for an amendment to this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-014-077.u13	Okay. Then we will not discuss this law. I would therefore end the discussion of this point. I'll read the apologies. I have apologies here. Mrs Monika Oborná apologises between 16.00 and 19.00 on account of negotiations. Furthermore, Minister Dan Ťok apologizes from 15 o'clock until the end of the day for working reasons. We will now proceed to the next agenda of the Chamber of Deputies meeting and we have a point here.
