ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u1	12. Proposal by Members of Vladimír Koníček, Stanislav Grospič and others for the Act amending Act No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies and on the amendment of certain laws (Act on property settlement with churches and religious societies) and Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended /German Press 38/ - First Reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 38/1. I will ask my colleague Vladimír Koníček to present this proposal as a representative of the plaintiffs. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u2	Mr President, fellow Members, the bill is very short, it has only two articles. In the first, in Section 15 of Law No. 428/2012 Sb. on the settlement of property with churches and religious societies, paragraph 6 is deleted. The words "financial compensation is not subject to tax, fee or other similar cash transactions' are therefore deleted. It cannot therefore be argued that religious restitution is being taxed, I would rather say that the exemption is being abolished. In Article 2, this amendment is also reflected in the Income Tax Act. That's all. That's how short the proposal is. The total amount of the financial compensation was set at 59 billion. CZK, and only by political agreement, without taking into account real land prices. The price was CZK 44,48 per square metre for agricultural land, CZK 27,74 per square metre for forest land. In implementing this law, the property is appreciated by the Czech Statistical Office for accounting into national accounts. In 2015, for example, he counted CZK 7.50 per square metre for agricultural land as an average amount for the first evaluation. Do you see the difference between the 44 crowns of the average price that was in the law? This indicates that the prices agreed when the law was passed were significantly overvalued. That is what we pointed out during the hearing of the law, but this is how the prices were set by the then government coalitions and not even heard the voices of the professional public. This proposal is also a reaction to the behaviour of the churches following the adoption of this Act, which receive financial compensation for unissued property, i.e. property held at the time of the adoption of the law by municipalities, regions or other natural and legal persons, but at the same time file claims for the determination of the owner of the property and, if it were to return to the State, request its physical return, so that they should have both physical property and financial compensation for it. The petitioners are prepared to support other proposals that would remedy the situation, which is why I am asking you to be released for second reading so that there is a chance at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u3	I thank the appellant and ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Milan Feranec, to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u4	Thank you. Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. As has already been said, this is a short or technically simple modification. The purpose of this law is to tax financial compensation for unissued property, as has already been said here. The benefits for the state budget are assumed at a level of 380 million. crowns a year. Opinion of the Government on this proposal. The government has agreed to the proposal with the following statement. The Government is aware of the risk that the proposed solution can be challenged by the Constitutional Court in view of the possible interference with the legitimate expectations of churches and religious societies that the compensation will be paid to them without further reduction of the income by tax. However, given the doubts about the method of calculation used and the level of financial compensation, the draft law considers that it is factually correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his report. I am opening a general debate in which I have two applications with priority rights at the moment. Mr Okamura will be the first to appear, then President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on this bill which proposes taxation of financial compensation within the framework of church restitutions. This proposal will support our SPD movement. The financial compensation is fixed at a flat rate of 59 billion by the property settlement law with churches and religious companies. Crowns. However, this amount is ultimately significantly increased as, starting from the second year of repayment, that is, from 2014, the outstanding amount of the financial compensation is increased depending on inflation. The financial settlement, which we layly call the restitution law, is a combination of two institutes. It is a financial compensation to churches for damage caused by nationalisation of their property and it is also a substitute for a contribution to support the activities that the churches have received in the past. We in the SPD appreciate the work and activities of many churches and see them as one of the very stabilizing and important elements. If we are debating the taxation of compensation, then we are based on simple logic and natural justice. This means that what was actually stolen from the churches should be returned to them or replaced without further taxation, because compensation for damage is not a gift or income. On the other hand, financial compensation which is not a compensation for damage but is indeed a net income should be taxed. [[9.30 hours]] As we know, so-called restitutional compensation is also granted to churches that did not even exist before 1989. For example, the Apostolic Church with less than five thousand members is to receive CZK 1,056 336 374. Or the Lutheran Evangelical Church receives 113 828 334 crowns. The problem is also with churches that existed before the coup, but they had minimal assets. Thus, the whole law is poorly built, in principle, because apples were mixed with pears, i.e. restitutions that should have simply been dealt with gradually by the courts, and compensations for future funding of churches, which we believe should have been dealt with by tax signatures so that their members would contribute primarily to the churches. It's a model known from Western countries. And our greatest church manages valuable monuments. The money for their care should then be provided by the State through the National Heritage Institute and other institutions in charge of this issue. On the one hand, citizens are poisoned by gigantic so-called financial substitutes, and on the other hand, Catholics, for example, must be hurt that even if they have given up much of the compensation for others, they are perceived negatively in the public's eyes. For the above reasons, we will vote in favour of the SPD for the release of this amendment of the law until further reading, and we want to have another debate on committees, whether we should be able to refine taxation only on the actual profits of the churches, so that we do not harm those who are actually only receiving what has been taken from them, and at the same time remove the inadequacy of the existing financial compensation, as I explained. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u7	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek. Then with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Birke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u8	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to extend the discussion as to whether the amount of compensation has been fixed adequately or disproportionately. That's what I think we're having a 10-year discussion. In Topolánkův's government, a big five audit firm set a price. Then the Chamber of Deputies had an opposition opinion drawn up, then they had Topolánkův's government's report processed, and it was still based on roughly the same money. The fact that even churches that did not exist before 1948 receive annual wages in compensation is part of an agreement where the richest churches - especially the Catholic Church in this respect - were willing to agree with the other 16 churches and religious societies and share the compensation with them. So it's not extra, but it's about what the 17 churches, religious societies, and the Jewish religious community have agreed to do, in some way, to split up without making any extra money for the state. I would like to highlight some of this historic moment where not only did he agree to become with the churches, but that 17 churches were able to agree between themselves on the same procedure, which was the first time in these countries from White Mountain. That was quite an important moment when these churches were able to agree on a common position with the state, so they actually allowed the state to conclude the overall agreement. It's just an explanation. I don't want to keep you long. Allow me to make three basic points. Note number one. It's a replacement. Refund is not income. Taxing income taxes is totally antisensory and outlawed. Someone steals your property, then you get a refund for it, and you get taxed for it. That's nonsense. Two. For those who were not in negotiations on the property settlement law with the churches, I would just like to remind them of the construction. On the basis of this law - because the law authorised the government to sign contracts - 17 private contracts were signed. These are private contracts between the State on the one hand and always the relevant church or religious society or Jewish religious community on the other. Contracts shall be honored and respected. And now one side of the contract doesn't come to the other side of the contract and it doesn't say, "let's make an amendment to the treaty and let's make a different deal," but it uses - here I dare say, it takes advantage of - its public power to change the law that changes those contracts of a private nature. The very design of this procedure is absolutely unconstitutional and cannot succeed at the Constitutional Court and the government knows it. Many of you know that, too. Not to mention, of course, it will be retroactivity, albeit indirectly. This is also contrary to the Constitution. That's my last point. The Government has the Constitution of the Czech Republic and parliamentary democracy in such a respect that, although it has a number of expert opinions that the proposal is contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, it itself expects the proposal to come to the Constitutional Court, so it says: so let us approve, so let us comply with the Communists, because we have our own political reasons for doing so. I would like to call this an abomination in respect of the constitutional institution, which is the government in the Constitution of the Czech Republic, if you allow this approach - to proceed consciously unconstitutionally and say: Well, it doesn't matter if the Constitutional Court cancels it, we now need to comply with the Communists. If this law had been passed and the Constitutional Court had not repealed it, which I consider excluded, but anything could happen, after 50 years only the second same injustice, the second same robbery, which occurred after 1948. After all, robberies and robberies are so typical of communists. We reminded ourselves of them less than three days ago. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Now I have a series of factual points. Mr Benešík, then Vice-President Filip, is the first to make a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to briefly mention and refute one myth that has been rooted recently in Czech society. KDU-ČSL was not represented in the Chamber of Deputies when so-called church restitution was approved. There wasn't one folklore who voted for it. Logically, we weren't even in the government. That's just for sure. But we honor the agreements, we honor the rule of law. We are not spokesmen of any church, and therefore we cannot support this law, which is clearly retroactive, which will not be in line with the expectations of the Church. And on the Margo of that law, I would like to say that the churches need money to separate themselves from the state, to really separate the churches and the state, and that is in everyone's interest. They have the money and will use it precisely for their activities, which I consider to be godly in many respects. And it is paradoxical that the holy struggle, the holy struggle for the Christian character of our society and against Islamization, some want to start by underlinging, underbinding the work of Christian churches and Jewish communities. That's really very paradoxical. Think about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u11	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a point of fact, Vice-President Filip, then Mr Plzák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u12	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, Mrs and gentlemen, I would like to make a reply to Mr Miroslav Kalousek's speech. He knows very well that he didn't tell the truth. Refund with taxes. I'll give you a simple reason. Look, there were floods, whether in 2002 the large ones, or in 2012 and 2013, and any insurance compensation paid to any citizen, if it was for business, was taxed. So tax refunds. Let's not say that's not the case. That's the first moment. The second moment is the one called pacta sunt servanda, yes, contracts are valid, contracts are to be honored. And tell me how much respect I had for those contracts that were here before. It has never been said honestly, even in this House, each of the ministers has refused to publish what will be published, which will not be published. How does the other party honor the fact that the State is to honor those contracts, that it receives financial compensation next to the land? How is it possible that the private enterprise, I will say this specifically, the fishing industry Třeboň, which is in private hands, was privatized under the Law on Great Privatization, is to issue land to the church, which receives a financial compensation in addition to the land? How is it possible that he continues to have active legitimacy in the dispute that he can sue the state for a private person to issue something? And that's the verdict. I understand that it is final and that there is a summons and that there will certainly be a constitutional complaint. But what's the deal? It only applies to one side, doesn't it, pacta sunt servanda? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u13	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Plzák, Mrs Langšádlová will be prepared. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My serious colleagues, my colleagues, I wanted to talk about exactly the same topics as my previous speaker. First of all, it's nonsense that refunds with taxes. If I am not mistaken, the Member's income also includes compensation - correct me if I am wrong - these refunds are taxed. I think they are. [[Notes from the right side of the hall.]] If I'm wrong, you fixed me and I'm sorry. The second thing I wanted to talk to is that contracts are to be respected. I think the churches were compensated for property they couldn't have been given, i.e. which was transferred to the county and the municipality. How come they sue communities and regions for property when they do not follow the contracts themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You haven't used up your time by far. I will now ask Mrs Langšádlová, with a factual remark, then President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the whole point of the proposal is completely wrong because the bill talks about settling with the churches. After all, part of the settlement is not just the return of some property and the settlement of the rest. Part of this is the abandonment of the funding of the churches. And because it's a settlement, there's a lot of things that we can never balance and that we can never figure out. Because what happened here, the huge losses and the damage, the blood, the tortures, the banished and the persecuted - gentlemen on the left - that was the work of your predecessors! These are things that can never be healed in this society! Do you know how many thousands of people have touched that? You know what happened here in the '50s? Can this ever be replaced, can this ever be settled? Yes, he accepted a late settlement with the churches. After many decades and many challenges of the Constitutional Court. Too late. The property was still decaying. Look at what churches and your regions are doing today. They've got schools, they're in the social sphere, they're putting together the property that's been devastated. Yes, and my colleague Benešík said very well here - it is a Christianity on which all our civilizations stand. And if we're not aware of that, the losses will be deeper and deeper. Let us appreciate what the church is doing here, and let us appreciate what has been happening here in recent decades. Otherwise, we're gonna have to pay the price rudely!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u17	Thank you, Madame. A point of fact, Mr Kalousek, then Mr Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u18	Allow me to respond briefly to Mr Filip and Mr Plzák's lords. They cheered me up, I confess. I was talking about the replacement of the property paid by the original thief to the robbed, and they brought in insurance events, and even parliamentary compensation. Those are different cases. I'm talking about a replacement the original thief pays off the stolen one. We can try it, Mr. Plzák or Filip. I'm gonna steal your car, and when I give it back to you, you think the IRS is coming and you're gonna get your tax because you're getting your income by giving the stolen car back to you. It's really not like that. First of all. Two. I would also like to remind you that if we had not approved this law in 2012, the Muslim Church in the Czech Republic would have received compulsory contributions from the law since 2013, because it would have had its ten years since its establishment and would have had to be included in this package. It was also one of the reasons why we rushed to approve it on time. And three. I forgot to propose, given what I said, the rejection of this proposal at first reading. So that's what I'm doing now. I suggest you refuse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u19	Thank you. Of course, this is also possible in the context of a factual point. Mr Plzák withdrew his application, so with a factual remark, Vice-President Filip. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. First of all, the analogy is completely pointless. I could be the one talking here about what happened on September 30, 1938 in Upper Brod, who had police officers shot in the Czechoslovak Republic back then, which took place in Upper Brod in 1947. Let's not bring that up. Let us discuss what is subject to this law. The fact that you were in haste is because the mistake of the 1990 Law on Churches and Religious Communities was so great that liberalization of that religious environment led you to allow churches that were never allowed here. Not for the first Republic, not after the war, not after. And that was your fault. But that's not what you and anyone were talking about, the liberalism in allowing the Church. Okay, well, I didn't start a beer church, so I guess I made a mistake. But that's a thing that couldn't be dealt with in this way. So let's remember -- and I wasn't talking about any replacements, I was talking about what insurance is. And I have brought it exactly to what you have said here, Mr Kalousek, through the President. That's exactly it. So either there will be that the person who receives the compensation loses his active legitimacy in the dispute so that he can't sue someone and ask private entities, but even the municipalities for something that doesn't belong to him. Because it's just the government you might have been in that just privatized. So what's the process here? What's first? The decision that the state made at some point in time? That's what we have to say. It just can't be a double replacement. Just one!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u21	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Čižinský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to respond to Vice-President Filip. I don't think it's the same if something takes your water and the communists take something away from you. I think that's a substantial difference. [[Let's hear it from the right side of the hall.]] And then let me just say a little bit about the atmosphere after all. Colleague Langšádlová spoke here about the victims of the churches, which is related to this, because Communist thefts were part of the campaign against the churches. And we were here yesterday very well holding a minute's silence for a murdered journalist, very well being quiet when a colleague here read the victims of Nazism. And I was sorry when the Communist victims were reminded here that the House was rustling and that it did not realize that it was necessary to approach this subject quietly and with respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u23	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Grospič, then President Kováčik will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By your means, I would just like to inform my previous speakers in a factual note that there is no constant confusion about who took what from whom. 'Cause he wouldn't hurt to have a little historical field trip like that. I would like to say that, for example, the General Civil Code of 1811 in Austria amended the position of the Roman Catholic Church as a public corporation and, on the basis of this diction, it was transferred to the December constitution then from 1867 and, above all, to the so-called. The May Laws of 1874. And for those who do not consider this historic excursion essential, I would also like to say that this concerns, for example, Act No. 50/1874, the external relations of the Catholic Church, when the churches did not own, only managed the assets entrusted directly or through the parishes or religious organizations and associations or other supporting civil associations. On this was adopted on 9 December 1905 separation of the church from the state and followed the laws in the first Republic number 25/1919, the trade law, and the first and second land reform. I would also like to say that at the beginning of the 1990's a separation law was adopted, an enumeration law which returned a substantial part of the sacral buildings and property to the Roman Catholic Church at that time. So now we are talking about how much and under what circumstances the cash compensations that have been negotiated are paid to the churches, and that they are in proportion to, for example, the restitution property that was returned within the restitution process in the 1990s. So it is entirely legitimate for the church to be properly taxed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u25	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, President Kováčik. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u26	Thank you for the floor. Have a nice day, everyone. I must say, it is not us, the Communist Members' club, who constantly throws the past around whenever it suits. But while we are at the past and at the various tryzens that have been here lately and which we are also taking part in, we are also very involved and we are very much raising our eyebrows over what is necessary in connection with the murder of those journalists in Slovakia and so on, let's also hold a minute of silence for the victims of civilizations overturned in the name of the cross! Let us also hold the victims for those who fell before World War II in connection with preventing the border, so let us hold for all the victims! What do I mean? Let's think about the present and the future first. The past doesn't go away, it needs to be learned, but there's no need to beat each other over the face whenever it suits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u27	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Onderka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. Mr Kováčik, through Mr President, I would be careful with these words, because that history is not about yesterday's wake for the journalist who was murdered in Slovakia. But maybe you could just watch public television that took place in 1948 and others. Let us not politicize today's House's meeting on what concerns the individual church orders. Because when we're talking about a contractual relationship here, we're talking about the church as a whole. But the contractual relationship did not rule out the fact that individual orders could claim the property of cities and municipalities, or rather address it in the way in which to ask, that is, that the municipalities would return it to the state and they would ask the State to do so. I have to say, if I have to take advice on history or absolution, as the believers say, and I should choose between the secretary of the Communist Party and any vicar in the Czech Republic, I will go to the vicar. Let's not politicize!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u29	Thank you for keeping time. President Kováčik, in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr Onderka through Mr President, but I was talking about what you were talking about. Maybe we just listened badly to each other. And as for the reference to public television and its current content of the last few days, I would be much calmer and more satisfied, and I would be respectful of public television if, in exactly the same tone, she would also give the history as I remembered, that is, what happened here before the occupation. What happened here in the time of the Judith Ordners, when Czech policemen, Czech soldiers, died, Czech citizens were expelled from their homes without compensation at night and fled to the interior of the then gripped Czechoslovakia. That reminds me of much less in Czech public television. Well, at least I haven't noticed in the last few years that it would have been remembered in some way. If it ever happened, I'm sorry I didn't notice. While the things that go now - and those too - cannot stand up and we have also apologized for them as the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia - are there today and daily. That's the political struggle, that's the politicalization, if history isn't taken in context. Thank you, and I'm sorry to be so forgiving.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u31	Thank you, and Mr Onderka will respond in the light of the factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u32	[[One last time.]] Through the President, Mr Kováčik, I accept your apology for politicizing. I want to tell you that without any replacement, they really died in Sudeten, and believe me, my family comes from Sudeten, so I know what I'm talking about. So, of course, without compensation, these officers died during this period you're talking about. And we're the ones who killed them without compensation after the Second World War pretty much moved away. So fall for who? In this case Old Testament: Eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u33	Thank you. By this we have exhausted the section of factual notes and historical excursions and we will return to properly logged in and first it is our turn... Mr. Birke hasn't gotten off with a priority yet. Well, I'm sorry, Vice-President Birke with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President, I was terrified that you would forget me. [[President: I forgot.]] I can't believe this. Thank you very much for the floor. I will not comment on the debate, nor will I evaluate the previous debate in any way. I'll be very austere and very short. Allow me to express the opinion of the Social Democracy Club. We will, of course, vote against the veto, and we are prepared to release the proposal of Members Vladimír Koníček and Stanislav Grospič to church restitutions for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u35	I thank you and now, with a proper application for the debate, Mr Marek Benda, then Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that I finally came to the floor after half an hour of factual remarks and the handling of historical accounts. I think I'll split my speech in two. One is more or less purely formal, but I just want to point out a certain degree of absurdity in government's demise, and then I would get to the bill as a whole. Minister Pelikán is not here at the moment, but if you all remember, it was also said in the rapporteur's report that the government has taken a favourable position on the matter with the slight doubt that the bill is probably unconstitutional. I find this completely, completely absurd and unprecedented. I understand that the government is a political body that decides as a whole. I do not understand, however, why there is a government that is not even trying to gain confidence and sends to the House some opinions that are then the position of the ANO movement, or even its current government majority. If the Minister of Justice requests the views of the three departments on the proposal, namely the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice as his own resort, the Ministry of Culture will say to him: Please, Minister - and I might quote it, but I prefer to paraphrase - the proposal is stupid, please do not do such a thing, it is a substitute for things that have not been issued... The Treasury will say: Well, of course, we could use some more tax money in the state register, but let's point out that the proposal is unconstitutional... And the Justice Department won't express itself at all, because there's no one to sign that department: I agree that something that was agreed as a paycheck and promised by the state should be taxed in this retroactive way... On that basis, the Minister of Justice will propose a favourable position to the Government. Then I wonder why we have such a government here. Then such an opinion is to be given to us by the leadership, the Bureau of the political party or the political movement YES. It is perfectly legitimate, as any of us will communicate for our political party, but then it is not a government position, it does not follow any of the expert opinions that have been expressed in that government, it does not follow what individual departments recommend. It's just a political vote. If I need to get in the Chamber of Deputies, I have to lean in on the communists. I'm warning you all very much. Communists have been tilting around here in history, and it's always been very bad with these people. Let us remember Fierlinger, Plojhar, and many others who tilted them, too, and how they ended up. So it's very dangerous to mess around, and I don't think we should go this way. If there is any debate about what the government should and should not do here, one of the things I will propose that it should not give opinions on the legislative proposals, if they are politicised in this way and the government has no confidence. There is no point in wanting a technical statement from the Minister of Justice, who replaces his political opinion. So much for the trial procedure. Now I would like to return to the bill as such and to what has been presented here. I quite appreciate the speech by Vice-President Okamura, who admitted that possible taxation should only be considered for some unlawful profits. I think that during the second reading I can very convincingly prove to him that there is no unauthorized profit involved, and I believe that he will then turn to the fact that there is no taxation. But I understand that as a new political movement, the SPD, in particular, has no idea what was happening here around the church restitutions. I've quoted it here before in the past. The Prime Minister likes to use a sentence that church restitutions are overpriced by 54 billion. Unfortunately, that sentence is completely meaningless. The sentence dates back to 2008. It was used by Vlastimil Tlustý in the war with Mirek Topolánek and in an attempt to break up church restitution and pointed to the issue of whether or not they were mainly overrated agricultural land but also forest land. In 2008, it was a fairly legitimate debate, although, as President Kalousek has already quoted here, at that time we had an audit firm report from the big four, which said: Yes, that's the right award. At least five more years have passed since the approval. But it is precisely because we knew that this doubt existed here, so after 2010, when a new government arose in the Chamber of Deputies, in which the Public Affairs were represented - give them God's eternal memory - that was precisely the requirement: we must do church restitution in some other way. And it was said yes to stop this doubt as to whether there are overrated agricultural and forestry crops, so we simply issue these agricultural and forestry crops. Then it doesn't matter if the estimate is 46,50, 22,30, or if it's 4:30. If we hand them over, maybe the property will be issued for less than the estimated amount, the 81 billion. property that has been issued. But in that case, it is the property that has been issued, and the compensation is paid for the unissued property, not for the assets issued, so it makes no sense to give these numbers. And I've already pointed that out to the Prime Minister. To say that something about 54 billion is overrated, when the total amount is 59 billion, well it can't really mean anyone. That would be the kind of revaluation we haven't experienced in the history of the Czech countries. So just for this reason, I believe that the amounts paid are paid correctly and fairly. And now I'm not going to run into you for sure. The Constitutional Court, if such a majority were to be found here, will reject, because the legitimate expectations that have arisen here and which have been confirmed by the treaties are of a different nature. Now, I would like to make a brief comment on the appearance, in particular, of the representatives of the Communist Party, starting with Vice-President Filip, who was beating us all over the head by liberalizing the ecclesiastical environment. So I would just like to point out to him that the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms in 1991 was approved by the Federal Assembly in which he was present. If I am not mistaken, he voted in favour of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. And it established the neutrality of the state towards the churches and religious societies - all - and she said the rules: everyone can confess according to their will and opinion, and we will eventually recognize the churches. One of the reasons why we were in such a hurry to complete the church restitution in 2012, apart from the fact that they weren't here at the time, as Ondřej Benešík reminded us, the folklore - if there are folks here, it's impossible to approve, so then they weren't here, so there was only one time and a chance to approve some reasonable settlement. So one of the essential reasons was that the ten-year deadline for a possible second-degree registration started in 2002 and that there was a very significant concern about what would happen in a situation where you, for example. The headquarters of Muslim municipalities will apply for co-financing from the state budget under the current law on the financing of churches and religious societies from 1949, and how we will address these situations of joining churches and religious societies from completely different cultures without tradition in the Czech Republic, which we would really have to start paying. And that was one of the essential things that we wanted to solve. Let us consider what the Communist regime has done to pay all the church officials of all the churches it recognizes. And he's gonna pay for his stolen property for his life. And we wanted: Please, let's get away from this, let's stop paying for more and more churches, especially those circles that are, let's say, more religious or whose theology we don't understand, and often many of us don't agree with it. [[10.10 hours]] That is why we went that way, that there will be separation of the state and the churches, that there will be separation of funding from the state budget, economic security of the church, the salaries of the clergy. That is why not only the compensation for unissued property, which was not possible to issue, but also the compensation for newly created churches, which had no property in 1948 and which had been decided by voluntary agreement, was concluded here, as was also mentioned, between all 17 registered churches and religious societies and the Federation of Jewish Communities, a voluntary agreement to divide the Catholic Church as, of course, the most massive owner in 1948, giving up part of its compensation and allowing it to be transferred to other churches, some of which were actually established after 1989. And there it was the incredible generosity of the representatives of the Catholic Church who were interested in making this overall agreement and making up for it, that they also said to these churches, which were created after 1989 and were recognised on the very basis of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which I have already mentioned here, that Vice-President Filip supported it, so these churches can also begin to have a chance to survive, so that they would not be so shocked if the funding from the state budget was terminated. I think these are all very important things. What the Communist Party leaders are playing here in particular is simply a normal old class hatred. That's the only way I can call it. They're the papalists of the churches who are too rich to return, so we have to get into them, and we have to take something from them. It is just as pointless as when the taxation of compensation for Members came through here. I thought it was the same stupid thing. The last comment I would like to make on the proposal and on why I think it should be rejected, and why I am deeply convinced that if the Chamber of Deputies had approved it, it would definitely be rejected by the Constitutional Court. Vice-President Filip here said such a strange sentence: what will be published has never been said. A sentence seemingly pretty, interesting. But, of course, it was said what would be published. It was simply said as the laws should say on the basis of the general criteria that were taken after 1948, what was owned by the State or the municipality or - and this is the last sentence which, I think, must be heard - which was after 1991 unlawfully, contrary to the then law on land, was transferred to other entities, although the then law on land, because it was just waiting for church restitution to be adopted, clearly said that the property of churches owned by churches and religious societies until 1948, was blocked. And if someone stole it over the next twenty, twenty-five years, and there's no other way to call it, if the property was blocked and he, in some cooperation with some state authorities, transferred it to himself, then, of course, it's possible to make such a lawsuit, and that's what the disputes are about. Of course, I don't see them in a detailed, partial way. I don't know who's right, I don't know who's gonna win them, we'll see. But this is exactly the kind of property we're talking about. And of course, what will be published has not been said. This has always been a requirement especially for communists - write down the number of parcels to be issued. This has already happened in the Law of the Federal Assembly to which a fraction was issued, not more of the sacral buildings, a fraction of the buildings in the early 1990s in 1991, and we already know that mistakes were made in the enumeration law. And a number of mistakes, because writing all the parcels to be issued into the law is extremely difficult. And I guess you all remember a little bit about the National Theatre operating building, if it was published rightly, it wasn't published rightfully what was going on there. At the same time, from the other side, that there are monasteries that have been published without a wall of six meters, because it has simply been forgotten about one plot and the six meters had to be dealt with in some way, no one knows them anymore, of course, because they are not as popular as saying: the church has been given something unjustly. But just because we knew how complex and inaccurate the enumeration laws were, we always said: there will only be a general principle on the basis of which it is issued, and we will not make an enumeration law. So much for what Vice-President Filip said. Yes, the general principles are there, of course, based on these general principles it is possible to sue and see what happens in court. And the last remark to Mr Grospič, who again used such a beautiful formulation - a discrepancy with the restitution of the assets, is not in proportion to what was issued in 1991-1993 under the laws on the general restitution and then on the restitution of the agricultural soil fund. First of all, I point out that it was physically issued, that it was issued 25 years ago, when the prices really were completely different. And, if you notice, today's efforts, the ongoing efforts of the Land Office to pay the 1990 prices, constantly come across the decision of the Constitutional Court, which says: This is not possible, it is not possible to play with the 1990 prices. It is necessary where you have not been able to issue the land for restitution from the early 1990s, to pay the full value corresponding to today's price, and not some obscure 1990 price increased by possibly inflation. So much for a performance. I recommend that we do not deal with this bill. It's really deep nonsense, which, if it's approved, will undoubtedly be abolished by the Constitutional Court, and we'll just refrain from doing so, and it's just an attempt to inclined the Communists. And I suggest you don't try to lean on the Communists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a proper application to the general debate, Mr Leo Luzar. Mr Marek the Výborný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u38	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I will start where my colleague, Marek Benda, ends up. Lean on the Communists, because in this part of the Communists represent more than 70 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic. More than 70 percent of Czech citizens disagree with church restitutions. So far, however, most of those who represent the minority of citizens have said: church restitution nothing, it's okay, nothing happens, and the basic password that sounds what was stolen. But that these church restitutions have gone through one voice, that I am not one of them when discussing those religious restitutions - and those memorials who were lucky enough to have been in this House for the past x dozens of years - unfortunately I am not one of them, though I would like to be involved in the discussion of church restitutions as they discussed, I did not have the opportunity - they say that evil was atonemented. Maybe they're right. But it is not possible to bring about new evil by a law designed to atone for evil. And this law has caused this new evil. This is a problem and more than 70 percent of Czech citizens feel it is wrong. Maybe not personal, but it feels like it's wrong, and it's a problem. If you do not feel that way, colleagues and colleagues, I am sorry, but this House has adopted a law with which most citizens of the Czech Republic cannot accept. This proposal, which is here, seeks to say to these citizens: it was not quite right, we perceive the risks and the things that happened after the adoption of the law and were not as the legislator claimed they would not be, they did. [[10.20 hours]] And what is the fundamental merit of what has happened and what is the citizens outside the negotiation of this law, which was then adopted by one single proverbial voice, is that the churches began to sue and enforce through the court not only from municipalities, regions, but also from private owners, those innocent people who had nothing to do with it, and have caused new injustices. And they didn't really care. [[Strongly.]] And how many of these cases were there? We can figure them out here. It's not a problem. My colleague Benda here mentioned the generosity of the church. Why did the church do this by sharing property and giving to those churches who were not legally entitled to it? After all, he made it clear that they would not otherwise be in favour of speeding up the separation of the state from the church to determine the parameter of separation of the state from the church. In other words, he won't accept bribery, let's just say it. The church bought other churches to keep quiet. And it's possible, and there's a paragraph for that. And colleagues, you can laugh, you can give it any noble words that it was a gift. No, the other churches didn't object to this procedure chosen by this law because they knew they were going to get money for it. But not the money of the Catholic Church, which was so generous, but the money of the state. And the increased money of the state, because this property is given to the state. But here, on the right side of the spectrum, there was such a sigh. Can you figure it out? I'll do it - yesterday we saw the reading of names - so it wasn't everyone, the crowd, but to make there specific clear fates of people. I'll tell you one such fate here. A Mr Havelek turned to me: "I will again beg for help or advice as far as my problem is concerned. 3. 12. 2012 I bought the property on the basis of a public offer from the Land Fund of the Czech Republic through a purchase contract. The purchase agreement in question in paragraph 9 states that the seller declares that in accordance with Section 2 of Law No. 95/1999 Coll., as amended, verified the transferability of the sold land and declares that the sold land is not excluded from the transfer pursuant to Act No 2 of Act No. 95/1999 Coll., as amended. I paid the land properly and used it. As part of the church restitutions, the church filed a lawsuit against me, and by decision of the district court, and then I lost the land to the county court. Although I have called the Supreme Court, you certainly know how the courts decide in matters of lawsuits within the framework of church restitutions. I consider my situation when I lost the land to be a great injustice to me." So many quotes from this citizen, a particular citizen with a specific name. Not some imaginary possible victim. What was the answer of Minister Jurečka, the one whose party defends church restitution? However, there is not yet a legislative mechanism to remember these cases. I must say that we will have to deal intensively with how to help resolve this situation. But rather, we will have to create some legislative legal framework to cover these situations. I have to say, it's a matter that the proponents of the property settlement bill didn't count on. I have to say, it happens a lot, too, because it just makes mistakes. And now we're facing each other here trying to right the wrongs that have been stolen, but unfortunately, it's often done by stealing elsewhere. And this particular citizen of the Czech Republic, the particular master of Havelek, feels like a huge injustice in life. Here you can say, colleagues and colleagues, that it is one citizen and we represent 10 million here. But just because it's one particular citizen who feels wrong, we should think about it. Again, more than 70 percent of Czech citizens disagree with church restitution. And maybe we communists have the bad luck - or the luck, and I consider it lucky - that we defend our program and what we said we are trying to do. That is why we have put forward this proposal, which at least partially addresses these religious restitutions and tries to at least alleviate the injustice a little bit. And not only does Mr Havelek feel wrong, but again, more than 70 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic feel wrong. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now let me read a few apologies. Mr Julius Špičák apologizes to Mrs Tereza Hyťhová until 13.15, Mr Tomáš Hanzel apologizes from today's meeting from 12.30 to the end of the day for working reasons; Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes from 9.45 to 10.45 for working reasons; Mr Dominik Feri apologises between 10 and 13.30 for working reasons. Now with a point of fact, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u40	Thank you. I dare to have one question for the previous speaker, and then I would like to highlight one thing. The question is. How it will help Mr Havelek, whose personal feelings I am not making light of, to see how it will help him in his case in particular when Parliament robs 17 churches of hundreds of millions. What's in it for him? First of all. Two. A hundred repeated lies have fallen again here, and I would hate to see a hundred repeated lies become the truth that this law has been passed by that one proverbial voice, and you are happy to add that one voice to the criminally prosecuted member of the Pekárek. I beg you, everyone, look at the junk. The law was passed by two votes. Yes, Mr. Pekárek has also voted for him, which you shouldn't mind if you support today's criminally prosecuted prime minister, but it was by two votes, not one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u41	Thank you. Indeed, Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u42	Thank you for the floor. Dear Mr Kalousek, through the President, I have been called upon to help this poor Mr Havelek in his solution. Yes, he demands justice and demands a replacement. In order for the State to offer him this compensation, it will have to rob 10 million citizens of this Republic so that they can pay for this compensation. And why should it be from the tax compensation of these 10 million citizens, and shouldn't it be from the money that will be taxed under church restitution and shouldn't be used precisely for these compensations of this injustice? That's the solution. If you wanted to hear it, you got it. And unlike the Prime Minister, who is not convicted, Mr Pekárek has already been convicted and is a recognised criminally responsible man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u43	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura, for real.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u44	It's always the communist's old-fashioned song over and over again. Mr Pekárek voted in favour of his vote was not needed. He wasn't a member of our club at the time, we expelled him from our club. As you well know, the parliamentary club cannot, and it is so well, by the Constitution, get rid of no one's parliamentary mandate. Please do not use this argument. He wasn't a member of our club at the moment of the vote. He was a member of our club one calendar day, and we couldn't do it any faster. But according to the Constitution, the mandate does not belong to the party as the Communists would like it, but it belongs to a particular person, each of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u45	Thank you. I do not see any further factual remarks, so with proper application by Mr Luzar. No, I'm sorry, I took over, I didn't register. Mr. Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u46	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues. Thank you for the floor. I don't want to go back to those historical excursions and emotional expressions, but there's one thing I'd like to add. Here, my previous speaker said that 70-80 percent of the public disagrees with restitutions and replacements. But a colleague, colleagues, we can't think like that. This is ridiculous! The majority of the public wants minimum taxes, the highest salaries, the highest pensions, and we want that, so we're going to vote for that? After all, we have some responsibility and the value of justice, which is at the heart of the problem or the whole thing, must be honored by us. It's just, yes, whether we like it or not, if something was stolen, it's supposed to be returned, and it's absurd that at the moment something that's been stolen comes back to us to burden it with taxes. We all know that. But I wanted to say some things more factual here, which affect the legal side of the matter. The State closed the financial compensation in accordance with Act No. 428/2012 Sb. settlement agreements with all churches that have not rejected this method of settlement. Therefore, the pacta sunt servanda principle and the principle of legitimate expectations apply. In these contracts, the State is in the position of an entity liable for the provision of the agreed performance. The proposed amendment would unilaterally alter the content of the contract, and its approval could lead to litigation, for example, due to the potential reduction of the creditor. Propellers do not address the question of how churches could make additions to these treaties. Furthermore, the proposed change in the introduction of the obligation to pay income tax in relation to the financial compensation granted may have a retroactive effect, as completely new conditions will apply to a relationship based on the conditions of existing legislation. This procedure is only permitted in cases where there are particularly serious reasons, respectively. where there is a particularly serious public interest. I quote the Constitutional Court's finding of 15 May 2012. However, the proposal to prove a serious public interest for which it would be appropriate to amend the law does not result, all the more so, that the explanatory memorandum to the law shows that all the petitioners had foreseen the lawmaker's hard facts at the time of the adoption of the law. So they were predicted, that's why there's no public interest. The Constitutional Court also, and it has repeatedly been said here, expressed itself on financial compensation and did not find anything unconstitutional on their form. In view of the practically completed process of natural restitution, it can also be said that the scope of the real estate in kind is below the initial qualified estimates contained in the explanatory memorandum, so the argument of the appellants will not stand here for inadequacy of financial compensation. On the contrary, the argument of protection of ownership must be taken into account. So many factual things that I suppose are quite clear and clear, and we will take them into account as Members in our decision-making on how to deal with this proposal. I believe that there is no other way than to reject the proposal, because otherwise, the Constitutional Court will actually end this absurdity here anyway. So what I am going to do - and here I am going to repeat with what has been said here - was really amused by the government's position, because if the government, even though it is convinced of all these things, is aware, it gives a favourable opinion on this proposal, then that, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing more than a political argument to support the negotiations on the government that runs here, among other things, with the KSČM. That's all it says. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read two more apologies. Mr Mašek apologizes until 12 o'clock for reasons of work, Mrs Balcarová apologises for reasons of work between 10.30 and 11. Mr Grebeníček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Pope František, whose 11 December 2013 Time magazine described himself as a person of the year, was heard to say that corruption seriously offends bůh, all the more so when it has religious subtext. Since taking office in March 2013, the Holy Father has been trying to get church dignitaries to become more modest and rid the Vatican Bank of criminal legend. By the end of November 2013, Pope Francis stood up for the poor in the world who are exposed to the dictatorship of the merciless market in his apostolic exhort or papal admonition. In this document, he also said: "Money must serve and not rule. " His remarks provoked misleading criticism of American conservative priests who called the call clear Marxism. They even wrote that Ježíš Kristus was not a socialist, but a capitalist professing personal responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, Pope František is certainly no supporter of neosocialism, but he is quite skillfully distancing himself from a radical capitalist ideology that is responsible for a number of social injustices. In his first public statement after it became clear that greedy Vatican prelates resisted his efforts to reform the administration and funding of the Holy See, he clearly stated: "Even in the church, instead of serving and thinking about others, the church is taking advantage of them. They're careerists who cling to money." And then on November 6, 2015, Pope František also said these critical words at Mass: "It is not possible to say that this is a church that helps, which serves when it uses others instead. " František made it clear at first that he did not intend to be merely some transitional pope, who would only continue on the ground plan of his predecessors Jan Pavel II. and Benedikt XVI. He did not even take over the well - used dogmas that may have in common with ordinary human life just because they fit together like a fist on the eye. Ladies and gentlemen, Pope František is not declaring war or mobilizing the Christian world against the Islamists. When returning from Krakow to the Vatican in 2016, he even declared that the source of terrorism was not Islam, but an unfair social order where money rules and young people have no perspective. Yes, a large part of the Catholic hierarchy does not conceal dissatisfaction with the new wind blowing from the Vatican and wants to wait out the pope František' pontifigate, hoping that everything will return to the way it was. And the Czech Republic? When, at the beginning of recatholization, there was a desperate lack of the Catholic priesthood, especially the parishioners, foreign priests, especially the Polish, were initially invited to the parishes. The resemblance to today is probably purely random. Like the basic contrast of the Baroque, i.e. the cultural style that penetrated the Czech lands after the defeat of the building forces on the White Mountain directly following the expansion of the Catholic Church. Of course, it was always the same. Above all, however, the property and the supposed nothingness of earthly life compared to eternal life. [[10.40 hours]] I have never listened to the Roman Catholic Church, especially not to the wealthy branch that once again puts itself in the fore all over the world, to focus attention on itself with the grander and wider wings of its ceremonies unzipped. She reveals, preaches. But not all of them are like that. For example, 30 believers in a statement entitled Christians against the Church Property Act of 2012, among whose leading signatories were the Olomouc bishop of the Church of Czechoslovak Hussite Jana Šilerová, chaplain of Valdictorian Aleš Jaluška, psychologist Jeroným Klimeš or religiousist Ivan Štampach, states: "We believe that the future of the church cannot be built on property from the past, but on the present living faith and willingness to sacrifice. Without them, the efforts to secure the churches are futile and hardly long-term will lead to their full and successful existence for others. It is not possible to serve two masters, bůh and property." Interestingly, and I hope you will not stone me for this, the evangelical priest Miloš Rejchrt also commented on the supposedly stolen property of the church in August 2012. Not that it was stolen, it's a floscule that doesn't describe anything. It was not stolen, but it was transferred, bought, passed by inheritance, it was sold out. As they say now, under strikingly disadvantageous conditions, but perhaps not even a land in the woods was stolen. The word stolen is emotional and it's just a smoke screen. - Again, it's from the workshop of Evangelical Pastor Miloš Rejchrt. In May 2013, author Lenka Procházková and her colleagues director Václav Dvořák, chairman of the jazz section Karel Srp and university teacher Milan Kohout addressed in writing even Pope František, because they believed that fraud could not be blurted with holy mask. "At the beginning of 2013," I quote from that letter, "the Act on the further huge transfer of state property to the Church, particularly Roman Catholic, came into force, which, in cooperation with the Archbishop of Prague, was admitted by the Czech Government. More than 80 percent of our country's inhabitants disagree with this unfair law, and opposition politicians have filed three constitutional complaints against it. The total value of the properties to be transferred to the churches is estimated by law at CZK 75 billion CZK, which is unsubstantiated because no one carried out an independent check of the list of these properties or their valuations. [[fields, forests, ponds and buildings]] Real estate will not be appreciated even in publishing, so no one will know whether the assets worth 75 billion were issued, as the lawmakers claim, or whether their total value is much higher." Those figures also informed Pope František that the law also includes so-called. financial compensation of a total of CZK 59 billion, which is also unfounded. So the Czech Republic put a finger and a certain circle of wealthy church dignitaries realized that the right time finally came to catch much more. However, the consecration is inclined to believe that the property requirements submitted to the Catholic Church are unfounded, for they are merely a pitiful lab without proper evidence. The words of historian Pavel Kalina, published in January 2014 are also worth mentioning: "The Czechs are dissatisfied with what Christian churches are currently offering. After all, this is not just about us. Perhaps the Catholic Church should develop a little more spiritual experience and a little less double accounting." Ladies and gentlemen, finding the right justice in history is very tricky in terms of a higher moral principle, because financial compensation to churches is completely absurdly paid by its taxes and by young people who are not responsible for something that happened at a time they did not even experience themselves. I don't see a single reason why I shouldn't stand on their side and clearly oppose those whose minds have been darkened by the desire for property and backstage power trafficking. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Ferjenčík, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u50	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many aspects to this question. Unfortunately, the debate is a little flattering for who is in favour of restitution and who is against restitution. I think it's more complicated than that. I am speaking for myself here, but I think I am also summing up the attitude of a number of my colleagues from the Pirates Club. The first thing, of course, is the amount of compensation received by the Church and, for example, if it were. The Constitutional Court has come to the conclusion that it has been disproportionate, so taxation can stand up to the Constitutional Court. After all, the current President of the Constitutional Court gave a dissenting opinion on the assessment of the religious restitutions and suggested the repeal of the law, so I am not sure that the question is so black and white about the constitutionality of the matter. The second thing is already mentioned by the smaller churches, which actually got at the expense of the Catholic Church, so as not to block it. So this question is also relevant, and it is simply the fact that in the context of the consensus and the agreement, churches that, in principle, may not have had to be entitled to it, were given more money than history, precisely to make a compromise with the Catholic Church accessible. The third thing, of course, is the process of adopting the law, which was truly shameful, and it is logically an aftertaste. On the other hand, the law had other aspects. For decades, the state's property settlement with the churches that the State had an obligation to accept was carried out. There was a threat that this would be dealt with through lawsuits, that there would be decades of legal uncertainty, when the buildings would be misplaced, and the problem had to be solved, and the House had a duty to do so. And just because she did it, let's just say, in a bit of a messy way, doesn't mean that the solution was necessarily worse than if she had gotten rid of it. Similarly, the question of legal certainty is absolutely relevant and it is legitimate and the likelihood that this additional taxation would be abolished by the Constitutional Court is high and there is a considerable risk that the entire law will fall again. Of course, we should ensure that the state behaves as a predictable partner in negotiations with other institutions, and this question is a very strong argument as to why not vote in favour of this additional taxation. [[10.50 hours]] The last thing that is absolutely essential to us as a Pirate Club - the law provided for the separation of the state and the church. When the payments are made, all the churches in the Czech Republic will be fully self-financed. We can ask if the time isn't too long, if it couldn't have been done faster. Anyway, the very principle of separation between the state and the church is absolutely essential to the pirát, the greatest positive of the law from our point of view. We are very pleased that this has happened and that there will be separation between churches and the state. Since the arguments are strong on both sides, we have a free vote on this bill at the Pirates Club. Each Member shall, in his conscience, decide what is more important to him and see what happens here. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u51	Thank you. Indeed, Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will be very brief because there have been some doubts about the subsequent steps of the Constitutional Court, possibly. how it will be viewed from the point of view of law, and the word retroactivity has been said here. By your means, I would ask honored colleagues from the Constitutional Legal Committee who probably understand this more than I do, as it is, because I have now received an email here from a colleague who is smiling to write to me: and remind them of the retroactivity of taxing the rent of police officers, soldiers and firefighters under past governments. So what's the deal with the retroactivity and all this stuff? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u53	Thank you. President Bělobrádek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u54	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I believe that we can agree that so-called. Church restitutions are unfair. Indeed, they are particularly unfair to the Catholic Church, which has not been compensated for the fact that the State has benefited from the proceeds of that property for decades and what it has been returning was only a part of it. That means the state was highly profitable. On the other hand, we were not involved in the adoption of the law, so is Marek Benda, because we would like him to be fairer than he is, towards churches and religious societies, but we respect that the churches and religious societies have agreed between themselves and the state that the treaties are signed, and for us this is really just a legal matter. It's not a religious thing, it's a political thing, it's a legal thing. There's just some contract, there's some clause, there's some agreement, and it should basically be changed only if both sides agree on it. We respect that, we think that this effort that is going on here, if it ends up in the Constitutional Court, it should be dropped at the Constitutional Court, but we can't completely anticipate that. Anyway, I think that what is obvious is that in this case it is a compromise, a correction of injustice, it is not a restitution in the sense that we are used to other cases. And what may also be good to say is that not all the injustices of the past are corrected. There are a lot of property injustices from the past, not even the injustices of our fellow citizens, who may have been forced to leave the Czech Kladsko, who were forced to leave some other territories, there are still some injustices from the time of the JZD. But please, let's see how it is. It's a legal thing. I think, from this point of view, it would be good for this proposal to be rejected and for the agreement to remain as it is made, no matter how much we can look at it, whether it was sufficient for churches and religious societies. And the last sentence. The Federation of Jewish Communities and the small churches would be the one who would pay the most for possible taxation. This needs to be realized, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u55	Thank you. In fact, Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u56	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be very brief indeed. You know, this is where the Constitutional Court keeps arguing. Let me just remind you that the Parliamentary Institute has said and written that this bill is not contrary to the law of the European Union, it is factually relevant to the issue of the Czech Republic and, in my opinion, nothing prevents such a law from being adopted. And the second thing President Bělobrádek was talking about. Yeah, well, let's talk about the wrongs. I'm asking when the injustices of privatization will be corrected. This is a crucial thing!. You want me to repeat here what happened to Ostrom Opava? You want me to repeat what happened to Vodotechna in České Budějovice? Who robbed her? That those who were supposed to pay it to the state never paid it and that those who then bought it from the so-called. the owner who is still registered there under another name, and they also paid real estate transfer taxes? Isn't that wrong with these people because they were legally liable for the tax? You think these people don't mind? Well, they don't like it, it's wrong! And that's the privatisation process. You've never touched on it. And how many people were damaged by the privatisation process? So let's not talk about whether this is possible or not. It's possible!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u57	Thank you. I do not see any further factual points, so please Mr Juránek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u58	Mr President, thank you for the word that I got to him. Dear colleagues, I would like to add a little bit to my colleague Grebeníček here, but I would like to say that my main word today - I have taken advantage of one of the opportunities that is now on the occasion of this law - will be towards the Communists. I dare say that the outcome of the courts on this matter is of no importance at all. I think it's very important to look at the whole whole thing and say one thing, and I want to say that with one motto - that you can't change the truth and that it's good to look the truth clearly in the eye. And when there was such an excursion to the affairs of the Pope - and here I especially want to see my colleague Grebeníček, not directly, because I just want to say that this is something that I am following - then it is also necessary to say how the Communists as such acted towards the church and how the church took it from the very beginning. And I would venture to say that the same beginning was Lenin and the story of Lenin's relationship with the Church right after the revolution won Russia. It is such an interesting thing that after the victory of the revolution, but it was also due to the First World War, there was a great hunger in Russia, and the Orthodox Church wanted to address the hunger by giving away its property, all of it to the poor, to alleviate this hunger. Please, you can see it, it's very well described, this matter. And there is also an exact return, namely, to Lenin, who said: Now is the time to take advantage of this matter, and we need to take over the church's property in all hardness, and how much is dead, it doesn't matter. And so, in fact, the first, the Bolshevik power that all the Communist parties then followed, so this great Bolshevik power actually enriched itself in this way, while still destroying the church itself. I will skip everything and say that I have one personal message, a message just in the direction of a Communist party that I have never been able to pass on like this, and it is a message from my already deceased uncle, who was named Karel Procházka, let there also be a specific name, who was sentenced to 11 years in 1948 for organising an eagle pilgrimage to Hostyn. Yes, I have recently read that this is considered to be the biggest protest against communism throughout Eastern Europe, because more than 100,000 people have been shown to attend this pilgrimage within three days. And my uncle was convicted for it. [[11.00 hours]] He just happened to be where the father of the current Member, who spoke very carefully before me, worked, and he was a man who somehow treated my uncle. When his uncle was alive, and there was still much talk of Grebeníčk as such an example of how communists behaved against their prisoners in the past, and he was set as a deterrent. And now I'm going to say the message to my uncle in public. He said, "Don't believe what they say. Grebeníček was the mildest, brightest and best of all who treated us. We always knew what he was gonna do, unlike the others. The man was just infected with communism. And I personally," I quote to my uncle, "I'd like him to walk away from it, because this guy does it out of conviction and he makes it out of conviction." I would therefore like to say that I have a message from my uncle that has always led me to avoid hating or encountering people who really mean these things and who stood up for the father of the Member here. What he said, however, is that it must not be mobilized, it must not be mobilized against the communists, but against their key idea. And he says, Communism is based on class struggle and hatred. If any of them can give up on this matter, then they stop being communists and become left-wing representatives with whom it is good to deal. And I would personally like the entire Communist Party to be like this in our country, because in other countries, the Communists have managed to distance themselves from this matter. I just want it to be in connection with this law, whether we approve this law or not. I don't want to appeal at all, the courts always decide how they want it to be, I never know how it can be, we just don't change the truth. Even in the church, there are people who use the property the way the patriarch wanted to use it in Leninův's time, and are able to take the property when needed and give it to the needy. And certainly there are those who will abuse the property in some way. I just want to make one more comment. I dealt with this at a time when I was the governor, and I thought about what it would be like to negotiate the terms that the Catholic Church negotiated against the state if I negotiated such conditions in the context of financing the South Moravian Region. I consulted with the people around me, and I found that if I negotiated the terms of the Catholic Church at the time, I would be called off at the nearest council because all the things that were financialally speaking against the church giving up support for a state that was not small, which was regular and that was certain. However, as a person who wants to live in this society, and I have already taken a position on this, I very much wish that there should be a definitive separation of the church from the state. And that's when all those financial compensations are somehow solved, paid off or taxed. And I think that's the right thing to do. I think it's a good thing that the church's separation from the state has set its course here, I think, as the Chamber of Deputies, we have the right to deal with the law, even though it's pointless from the point of view of many people who are here. But what's important is what I want to say. Whatever happens to this law, we can't change the truth. No matter what happens, I wish that as many of the communists sitting here with us as possible can rid themselves of the hatred that my uncle Karel Procházka, who did not hate the people who were against him, but wished there was no communism. I hope that the communist ideas that are without class struggle and hatred outweigh what the Communists are doing to the party with which we, as KDU-ČSL, cannot go into opposition or coalition. So let us make the right decision, and let us always search for those paths at an angle of vision of what goes beyond today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u59	Thank you. Really, Mr. Feranec. Please make a factual point, Mr Feranec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u60	Thank you. I'm not acting as a rapporteur right now. I'll just give my opinion. Respectfully, I want to remind you of what we're going to vote on. We will not vote on the White Mountain, nor on the Bolshevik Revolution, nor on the occupation of the Sudeten, nor on February 1948, we will even vote on the Restitution Act itself. We will only decide whether to introduce a law to second reading that will allow financial compensation to be taxed for unissued property, since, according to the petitioners, these financial compensations were set at an disproportionately high level. So I would judge the content of the law not according to who's presenting it, but what's going on there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u61	Thank you. In fact, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club. Then really mister -- proper, good. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u62	Well, that's a deep mistake. We're going to vote on something that happened on February 1948. No one mentioned that in the debate. We're dealing with a replacement for stolen property, and little has been said here about who stole it, who stole it from, why he stole it. We're not saying anything about that either, and that's just a tax thing. That's not true. That's just the result of what the Communists did, and it started in February 1948. That's the first point. And second point. I wait in vain for the Minister of Culture to come. To whom do religious restitutions and churches belong in the portfolio? The Minister of Culture, who also wrote that he did not agree to this bill. So you hid him somewhere just to be safe? Maybe we should ask him? So please send him in. I'm putting a procedural motion to interrupt this point in the presence of the Minister of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u63	Yes, I'll let that be voted on without debate. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby. For the new arrivals, I'll repeat that... Yes, I'll check you out first, please, for a new registration. President Stanjura's proposal is to interrupt this point in the presence of the Minister of Culture. Initiating vote. I'm asking who agrees to interrupt this point. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 13. It's registered 162, for it was 55, against 97. This proposal was not adopted. Mr. Marek Benda has the floor with a proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would probably be able to do this in de facto terms, but I do not like to abuse them, so I will only try briefly to respond to what has been said in the debate. First of all, I was amused by Vice-President Filip, as he knows in principle that he will come up with the opinion of the Parliamentary Institute, which is to be compatible with European Union law. Yes, of course, church restitution does not regulate the law of the European Union, it does not deal with it in any way. So the position of the Parliamentary Institute is - it has nothing to do with European Union law, it is our national issue. But that doesn't indicate whether it's constitutional or unconstitutional, and I think it's quite obvious that it's not constitutional. But I find it really smiling to appeal to the fact that this has nothing to do with European Union law, and that is why we can discuss it. But at the same time, I volunteered to respond partly to what Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík said here, whose views I fully respect, but still two minor corrections. Saying division - and he has suggested here, Mr Luzar, with his usual intervention, that it was a bribe to the other churches, and apparently all the participants in the agreement should be prosecuted for indirect or direct bribery. To pretend that the agreement between the churches that was supposed to ease the situation and which said "the Catholic Church is giving up part of the compensation for the other churches that were created here" seems to me to be quite disproportionate to both the situation and history. Always in history in the Czech lands, everything was thousands of years ago - all the church property was in the hands of the Catholic Church. Then there were various separate evangelical or evangelical, or whatever we want to call them, churches. And there was often a situation that when there was a significant community of gooses, other types of calisthenics in a given town, the local church building was handed over to them. There was nothing weird about that. It corresponded not only to the historical holding, but also to the fact that churches are some living organism in a society containing some - now I don't want to say members, because members are the wrong word, but some believer. And that therefore they redistribute in this way things that serve and work for the support of the cult. So I'm just asking you not to use that word in this form. It was part of an agreement that was supposed to allow other churches that had almost no property in 1948 that fell under the famous Communist law that said: We will take everything away from you - and now not only property, but, of course, the donors and other dozens of things - and we will pay you for it. We, the state, a generous communist state, will pay you according to our quotas. We can see what salaries he gave to church officials back then and throughout history. They were the lowest paid university officials in the history of the Czechoslovak Republic. We can see how the state then supervised the churches, where the necessary state approval was necessary. It didn't matter if the church chose its own representatives in any way. No, the state had to give a hand. And those were the things we wanted to change and cancel. And so that there might be other churches that didn't have enough property in 1948, and they were allowed to function when I said, "I will stop financing the salary of the clergy from the state budget, or I will gradually reduce it, save it," so there was a redistribution that largely corresponds - I know they were favorable, the Catholic Church was highly tolerant on this matter - but it corresponds in some way to the number of believers, which should be substantial. Well, that's the first point. Second point. Again, we are being repeatedly referred to as the law has been passed in a controversial manner. It has not been approved in a questionable manner, please. The law, the one voice we had unfortunately here at the time, the criminally prosecuted convicted MP, with whom we could not do anything about it. You know very well that we eventually changed the laws of this country. But we just got into a situation where someone who had already been convicted came as an alternate. That one voice wasn't needed. The 101 votes were normal in this Chamber of Deputies. There was no criminally prosecuted MP's voice. So it wasn't a weird approval. That it was approved sometime at 9:30. Well, that was quite common in the pre-last term for voting last night. Because we still had David Rath here, who was inventing all kinds of obstructions against which our delays in the last parliamentary term were just a game and a joke. So if anyone is angry that it was approved at half past nine, I am merely saying that the law was legitimately passed by 101 votes of Members present and we did not need the vote of a convicted member at the time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u65	Thank you. I have three technical notes here. First Vice-President Filip, then Mr Ferjenčík and then Mr Luzar in that order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly again. Okay, I'll make a different argument. In the argument that the Constitutional Court will cancel, please read the vote of the separat, i.e. the opposition of the judges of the Constitutional Court, on the very occasion of the 1013 finding. That's where you'll find it doesn't have to be canceled. And it was your ODS Member Michal the Doktor who suggested the taxation. Even then, in the law. Among other things, you drove him out of the club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u67	Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u68	Thank you for the floor. I, as a member of one of those evangelical churches who got this shabby thing, stand by that term. This money is simply not about compensation for confiscated property, but it is about - you say generosity, but it is about money from the Catholic Church for the evangelical churches not to fight against it. And that they would fight!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u69	Member Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u70	I will also allow myself to react briefly to the performance of my colleague, Marek Benda, by means of you. He said an argument that I hadn't really thought of so far, even though the parallel with the indirect bribery I used in my speech was probably appropriate. Because he said that when the law was being negotiated, it wasn't just about what was stolen, it was supposed to come back, but it was also expected that he would have to compensate somehow for the separation of the state from the church. So why don't we do it all in one? But then it's missing, the settlement, it's missing the restitution part. And it was already two laws in one, such an adhesive to the law to avoid later criticisms of the other churches. And to use that beautiful field trip to the history of churches, like those brotherly and united series of churches. Here I would like to remind you that the history of churches, especially the history of financing and financial operations in churches, is associated with a lot of flowing gold, blood and fire. And not in such a distant history. So the relationships between the churches have always been problematic. Protestants could interpret. So I wouldn't want to take that field trip like that. But the idea of bringing those two things together into one law pleases me, and I'd like to take a closer look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u71	Mr. Benda, for real.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u72	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, to my colleague Ferjenčík. Of course, he can call it whatever he wants, that's his right. But it's a replacement for unissued property. Except it was issued to a subject other than who didn't own the property, I agree with that. I was trying to explain the historical reasons. And then, if Mr Luzar is surprised, then I wonder if he's performing at all. The law really wasn't all about restitution. The law was about the settlement of property between the state and the churches, and it had two parts clearly defined from the beginning - from the beginning of what it was presented, it was not an adhesive. One was an attempt to compensate for historical injustices, and the other was precisely the end of the funding of churches, or the salaries of clergymen, from the state budget and the establishment of a situation that would allow - and I tried to justify here why we felt it was necessary to accept this already in 2012 - so that there would be no accession of other churches that were going through or could potentially pass through, the registration of the second degree, which would allow funding from the state budget, and it would cause the state and churches to become independent in future from the operational budget of the churches and the salaries of the clergy to each other. [[11.20 hours]] This is not to say that there can be no other relations between the state and the churches, e.g. that when education is paid as well as any other education, social affairs, cultural monuments, which are also mixed up a bit senseless, but not money for the salaries of the clergy. So this was part of the bill from the beginning. That is why there was a certain redistribution of compensation between the churches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u73	Thank you, too. Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u74	Just a brief response to Mr Ferjenčík. One of the Protestant churches actually rejected it. I guess they were Baptists, I'm not quite sure. She refused, but she respected the arrangement of all the other churches. To call it this is, in my opinion, an insulting devaluation of the process of really taking place and separating churches from the state. If churches were to separate themselves from the state and not settle property or vice versa, if this had not been dealt with together, then many of the evangelical churches would not have worked because they would have stopped receiving a contribution from the state. And it would be difficult to achieve this from its own membership contributions. This means that all the other churches and židovský náboženský obec contributed from the compensation that belonged to the Catholic Church in order to separate themselves from the State and to be independent from the State. And that is what bothers you most, dear communists on all political parties. You don't even mind the money, it bothers you that a significant part of civil society, an anti-communist logically, will be independent of the state. And that's what happened. To call it that today, Mr President, is - I am sorry - very offensive to your own synod.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u75	At this stage, I have no further applications for the debate, so I am ending the debate. Let me ask you about the final words. The plaintiff? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u76	Mr President, I would just like to thank everyone for the extensive debate and I believe that we will release this proposal for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u77	Am I asking the rapporteur? He's not interested. In that case, we will vote. President Kalousek has proposed the rejection of the proposal. The motion to return to work didn't go through. So first, let's vote on rejection. Initiating vote. I'm asking who agrees with the motion to dismiss. Who's against it? It's vote number 14. It's logged in 164, 51, versus 98. This proposal has not been adopted. In that case, we will consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First of all, we would decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The draft from the Organising Committee shall be budgetary for the Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a guarantee committee proposal. prosit, Mr Bartošek, then Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u78	Thank you. Given the content of the proposal, I believe that this is much more about the Constitutional Committee than about the budget. I suggest we change the guarantee committee to constitutional law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-003-012.u79	President Kalousek, I presume, wanted to suggest the same thing. In that case, I consider this proposal to be counter-proposal against the proposal of the Organising Committee. We will vote first on the commandment to the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number 15. It's registered 165, for 65, against 90. The motion was not accepted. So we will vote on the original proposal for the guarantee committee to be a budget committee. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number 16. It's registered 165, for 140, versus 9. The motion was accepted. I note that the Committee on Budgets has been designated by the Guarantee Committee. There is a motion for a commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee to the next. That's a proposal from the Organizing Committee. I ask if there is still a proposal for another committee to discuss this press. If not, then we will vote on the commandment to the constitutionally legal committee as a committee to the next. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number 17. Registered 167, for 146, versus 3. The motion was accepted. We have thus ordered this press to the constitutionally-legal committee. Since there was no other voter proposal, we have exhausted this point and I am ending it. More apologies. Mr Kopřiva was initially excused for the whole day on the grounds of a foreign trip, however, he asks for an apology change from 13:00 to the end of the day, for the same reason, i.e. A foreign trip. Minister Milek apologizes for today's meeting at 14:30, for work reasons. And Mr Juchelka also apologizes between 11 and 15 for work reasons. So many apologies. We'll continue with point 13, which is
