ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-005-050.u1	50. Proposal for amendments to the composition of the institutions Chambers of Deputies Mr Martin Kolovratník as President of the Election Commission is ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-005-050.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I wish you a good afternoon. I apologize for the electoral committee for interrupting the heated debate, but the polling points are relentless, we need to deal with our responsibilities as the House. I would also like to thank the Gremium and the political agreement that it is true that, on Wednesdays this time before lunch, we can implement individual ballot points that are prepared for the House by the electoral committee. The first item is number 50, the motion for changes in the composition of the Chamber of Deputies. As I have informed my colleagues on the electoral committee, this is actually a traditional point, which we will always announce at every meeting now that you have clubs and you will have any need to make any changes or exchanges. So in this logic, we had a deadline until this week, until Monday, February 26th, at 12 o'clock. Finally, we have received only one proposal for a change in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies, which I submit to you in accordance with resolution 52 of the Election Commission. This resolution states that the Pirati MP has proposed a resignation in the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Control of the Activities of the General Inspection of the Security Corps, the resignation of Mr Ivan Bartoš, and for him the Pirates propose their member Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. It is therefore an exchange within the framework of the concession according to the proportional representation to which this Member State's club is entitled and entitled. As usual, the Election Commission is proposing a public election by means of a voting device, and I am now asking you, Mr President, to open the debate and, after the debate, as the Election Commission proposes, to decide by public vote on the confirmation of this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-005-050.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm opening the debate. I'm saying I don't have a written application for it, and I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. And since there has been no proposal other than for a public election, we can therefore vote in the public election on the resignation of Mr Ivan Bartoš and the nomination of Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík to the permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of the General Inspection of Security Corps. Now, I think we need two votes in order to comply with the Rules of Procedure. So, first of all, who agrees to resign Mr Ivan Bartoš in the standing committee for the control of GIBS. We will decide in the vote number 19, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 19 of the 172 Members present for 154, no one opposes. Resignation has been accepted. We will now decide on the nomination to the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of the General Inspection of the Security Corps in the vote number 20 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík being there. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 20 from the present 172 for 155, against no one. There has therefore been a change in the Commission for Control of the General Inspection of the Security Corps. So we can end point 50 and go to point 51. That's what it is.
