ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u1	28. Proposal by Members of Marek Benda, Ondřej Veselý, Patrik Nacher, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Marian Bojko, Leo Luzar, Dominik Feri, Věra Kovářová and others for the Act amending Act No. 65/2017 Coll., on health protection against harmful effects of addictive substances, as amended by Act No. 183/2017 Coll. House printing 87/ - first reading The point was interrupted on Friday 20. 4th at the 12th meeting, from which he was subsequently expelled. I would ask that Mr Marek Benda and Mr Rostislav Vyzula take the position at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiff and rapporteur for the first reading. Okay, we've already got applications. I have a note from Mr Stanjura without giving any reason. [[17.40 hours]] A motion for rejection was tabled during the debate. We will therefore continue the debate. The prior rights have been removed, so now I am asking you in Mr Farhan's debate. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. I know there was a heated discussion, but now we're going to be discussing the general press at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the proposal tabled. In the Czech Republic, more than 15,000 people die each year from the consequences of smoking. Three thousand more of our citizens are dying from the consequences of passive smoking. In other words, one person dies from the consequences of passive smoking in the Czech Republic every three hours. During this day during our meeting, four people have already died as a result of passive smoking. More than 5,000 people die from bronchogenic cancer. More than three and a half thousand people die from complications of chronic obstructive diseases of bronchopulmonal. I wouldn't want any of you to end his life on these smoking complications. Of course, I don't wish it on me. I would like to stress that I am not an enemy of free enterprise, I am not an enemy of smoking. On the contrary, I understand smoking because until recently I was a practicing smoker of classic cigarettes. But what I am opposed to is passive smoking, which we can somehow prevent. I wanted to say that the first trends show that there have already been a reduction in the complications in the consequences of smoking. I think that - of course, it's been a short time, so the results aren't so convincing yet. On the other hand, we can be based on statistics within the European Union, where these trends are clear, and I have no reason to doubt that this is different in the Czech Republic. Another thing I think is that this law, which currently applies, is also positive for our youth. At least our youth can see that smoking is abnormal, it is undignified, it is unhealthy, and society has somehow taken a stand for it. In conclusion, then, let me say that I will not support and support this proposal, which was approved last year, by some Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u3	I thank you, and now I beg you to see Mr Blaha's table. Mrs Jarošová will then prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a non-smoking person, I could be satisfied that there is an absolute ban on smoking in bars, pubs and restaurants. Some doctors, including the rapporteur, claim that the rate of heart attacks fell by almost 15% immediately after the ban was imposed. Although such a decline looks like a hockey chart invented by global warming agents, it could tempt us to win death completely over the next ten to fifteen years. However, a broad ban on smoking undoubtedly reduces the risks of a heart attack. I suppose there is no one in this House who doubts the harm of smoking. As politicians, we are easily and often tempted to protect our constituents from anything that could hurt them. We lie to ourselves that we have more sense that we are like the parents of immature children who need to be held by their hands everywhere in order to prevent them from getting hurt. By accepting a general ban on doing something that does not support a cult of perfect health and happiness, we are granting them educational sentences of house arrest and we expect their subsequent gratitude for this. Our voters, however, are adults and people of their rights and have their civil rights. They usually make mistakes. The task of this House, our task, is not to prevent the mistakes of citizens of the Czech Republic. We are not superhumans who can impose their idea of the right way of life on those unprivileged millions. Smoking poses a health risk. That's a fact we don't have to argue about. Alcohol consumption also poses a health risk. Sugars and fats are also unhealthy. Why, then, do we not yet have a bill in our hands that forbids or restricts the consumption of adults and self-righteous people? I can only think of the reason that alcohol, sugars and fats have not yet become the subject of political activism to the extent that it has been for tobacco. During the years prior to the adoption of the anti-smoking law, the number of restaurants, bars and pubs in which their owners introduced a smoking ban has increased quite rapidly. Demand for non-smoking environments grew rapidly and owners had in their hands all the rights to choose whether they wanted a smoking or non-smoking environment. We have limited their right by a law that is supposedly good because it supports the right thing. Moreover, no harm was done, because the non-smoking trend was clear, so we only accelerated the course of things. We've brought a little revolution into this evolution. Unfortunately, we have historical experience with this, and there are many specialists among us who are involved in the acceleration of history. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we slow down considerably. Let us abandon activism, let citizens' right to live their lives badly and unhealthyly, but at most freely. Otherwise, we will succumb to an activist pressure that will increase and increase. Laws are supposed to regulate relationships, not restrict private rights. I warn against trying to protect citizens from themselves, because otherwise we show them our arrogance and our disdain. The only issue in smoking in pubs is the right of workers to health protection at work. This cannot be achieved by banning such work, because we would have to ban the exercise of every profession. However, measures can be taken to reduce health risks significantly. The amendment currently under discussion contains such measures. I will therefore vote in favour of the regulation of the so-called anti-smoking law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u5	I, too, thank the honourable Member. I have a point of fact here. But before I ask the speaker, I'll read the note. So from 6:00 p.m. until the end of the meeting, Mr Benešík apologizes to us, from 5:45 p.m. to 12:00 p.m. Mr Jan Lipavský apologizes to Mr Jan Richter from 18:00 p.m. I am now asking Mr Ivo Vondrák to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u6	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The difference between the consumption of unhealthy sugar and unhealthy smoking is that I don't bother my neighborhood with it. So by this law, we do not prevent those who smoke, but those who must suffer from smoking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u7	Thank you, too. I now have Mr Blaha's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u8	I have to respond, too. Of course, by eating sugars and fats, I don't bother my surroundings, but I don't bother smoking in closed smoking places either. On the contrary, those who make up the crowds in public space are harassing their surroundings, not just the smoke, but, of course, the noise that necessarily belongs to it. So those people who live nearby, they're sick of it, too. As mayor of the county city, I can tell you about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u9	Thank you. I have now here with Mr Benda's point of fact. Mr Brázdil will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u10	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, there aren't many of us here anymore. I would also simply ask - I know that this is of course a request - that we do not fight here for the fight or the harm of smoking, that is not the bill we are proposing, nor that we return smoking to restaurants in a large way. That is not what the bill is about. Please discuss what is proposed and where I say that we respect all the principles that the Ministry of Health came with two or three years ago to this Chamber of Deputies when it said: we want to protect non-smokers and we want to protect the workers from the harmful effects of smoke. And prove to me if we have any error in this bill of law where we do not protect non-smokers and we do not protect staff from the harmful effects of smoke. Don't fight me for what's not in the law. It's not entirely fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u11	I, too, thank you and please Mr Brázdil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the law also contains a solution to the detention stations. Alcohol is simply part of some kind of health protection. Alcohol is a problem in our republic. Maybe not in Slovácko, I also come from Slovácko, where people have high alcohol dehydration and manage it, but it's not everywhere. And then these people end up at the shelters and the seizures are dealt with in this law. And they're talking about it being a medical facility, and so it has to have some quality, slowly a hotel level. A drunken person must have a summoning facility, a separate toilet, a dressing room and such nonsense, because it's called a medical facility. So I would love to be allowed to do this, if it goes through the second reading, then he read that the seizures are not a medical facility, but a specific health facility, and I will allow the Ministry of Health to make the technical requirements for seizures, by the way, and personnel, because those seizures say that they should currently be served by doctors with specialized competence. I'm leaving smoking and smoking, but I'm paying attention to the alcohol. It's a problem in our republic. Kids don't know how to eat, kids, young people don't know how to eat well, alcohol's a good thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u13	Ambassador, I must remind you that you do not respond to your previous speakers in your factual remark, but I will let you finish.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u14	I responded to a colleague named Blaha who said that alcohol was not a problem. There's a problem, and I just wanted to explain to you that this law should change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Blaha is now reporting again with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u16	I don't mean to be petty, but I said alcohol was a problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u17	Thank you. I have no further factual remarks, so please, Mrs Jarošová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u18	Dear Members, although the so-called anti-smoking law applies for a year, it has already proved clearly that it has its shortcomings, just as the opponents had foreseen. This law, which people logically ask for change, is, in my view, unthinkable, discriminatory to a large group of people in this republic, liquidation to hospitality entrepreneurs and, above all, deprives our citizens of the right to free choice. The law does not take into account the specifics of, for example, small village pubs and beerhouses, which were the hardest hit because smoking has belonged to these areas for generations. These are reported by 30 to 50 percent lower sales, as consumption of beer is transferred to households. There was a paradox when part of the rural restaurants ceased their activities thanks to this law and part of the ban, for example, goes around by enjoying smoking in these areas. Either clubs are created, or owners risk considerable financial sanctions, because they know that if they comply with the law, their establishment would be empty. Another negative is that smokers are forced to smoke outside in the cold during the winter and over the summer again, when a lot of people sleep with open windows, so people complain about the smell of smoke, those who live over these pubs or wine bars. The smoke's coming into their apartment. Then they're disturbed by the noise. Public spaces are contaminated with butts. All of this troubles the residents who live near these facilities, and it leads to unnecessary conflicts. I merely point out that the pub, the typical pub in the Czech Republic, was not and is not a candy shop or cafe. It's a place where we want to meet friends and not watch empty chairs. We don't want to see the pubs, where our great-grandfathers went, closing up. We all have the right to choose, so let's give it to smokers and non-smokers. They have a right to their premises. I don't want them standing in front of a tavern like shame just because they're smokers. I understand, and it is true that virtually all countries in Europe are, in some way, partially restricting smoking in closed public spaces, but why in our country, where beer consumption is a tradition and pubs are traditional places to meet friends, why must we have a total ban on smoking? I really don't understand. Fortunately, and I hope that in the Chamber of Deputies, there has been an increase in the election of legislators, as well as in the part of the senators who want to mitigate the existing standards, and we have a chance to rank side by side with countries such as Austria and Slovakia. I rely on our sound and fair judgment, honourable legislators, and I believe that together we will solve this problem to the satisfaction of all our citizens, because let us not cut off another piece of their freedom, because that is exactly how the public is perceived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Veselý will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the Government, our SPD movement expresses full support for the legislation under discussion on amendment of Act No. 65/2017 Coll., on health protection against harmful effects of addictive substances, as amended by Act No. 183/2017 Coll., which is jointly submitted by a large group of Members across the political spectrum and with whom she has given her consent. The Freedom and Direct Democracy Movement supports free entrepreneurship in its programme, so we want every citizen who does business in the course of hospitality and accommodation to choose freely and decide whether to allow their clients to smoke in their premises, restaurants and similar facilities. His decision will be supported by past experience and knowledge of the environment and will certainly be based on a thorough analysis of all pros and cons. For this reason, we are in favour of their own choice of opinion. Another argument in support of this bill is the legitimate complaints of citizens living in the neighborhood of restaurants and pubs of great noise in late evenings and a huge mess in front of restaurants, which is both due to the fact that guests of these restaurants and pubs go out smoking in front of these establishments. At the same time, however, we add that if smoking is allowed in the proposed premises, other restrictions on smoking ban imposed on it by the present law must be strictly respected. We stand by the claim that the protection of the health of other citizens and, mostly, persons under the age of 18 are more than sufficiently treated in this proposed legislation. For this reason, we are in favour of supporting the proposed amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u21	Thank you, too. I now ask Mr Veselý to prepare Mr Nacher. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, by emptying the O.R., there will probably be a majority of supporters of this law now. I have to admit, I'm one of them, too. I, along with Marek Benda, also belong to the actual co-authors of the law. I just want to say a few words that led me to contact Marek Benda and process the law. [[18.00 hours]] I admit that the law that we propose to amend had one major effect: it separated smoking strictly from non-smokers and, above all, the staff of the restaurant facilities from smokers. This means that the risky working environment has ceased to be a risk. However, the mistake was, and it has already been said here several times that we have chosen the most extreme, or the previous House has chosen the most extreme method that it could have chosen, that is, smoking ban. Total ban. Next to the positive, which I've already said, came a series of negatives. It's been said here. In cities that smoke on the streets. So if someone was saying why not change it, that the youth has a good role model, I don't know what a good role model is for the school youth leaving the school facility for a bunch of smokers outside the pub. I don't think so. On the contrary, the mayors complain: We have a pub near the school and the smokers are out and the children see it every day. The effect is none. Small villages, small village pubs, have already been said here. We need to realize that the village is really very hard tested, and if we are going to destroy more space in small villages today, then we are simply basing another problem. And I can confirm that this is a fact from a very specific experience from last Thursday, when the parliamentary week was. I drive around the villages around Písek and the South Bohemian Region. And a specific pub in a particular village called Skály. There simply said: As long as there could be smoke, the average daily attendance in our pub was 25 people. Since we're not allowed to smoke here, we've got five people on average, and we've got this place locked up. Unfortunately, as is customary in villages, a cultural hall is always part of the pub. So the moment the pub ends, the village ends with a cultural hall and, in fact, all the cultural activities in the village, because there is no place for firefighters, proms, mikulášská, whatever you imagine in the village. So it's really a big deal. Moreover, the Constitutional Court, which, therefore, abolished only a part of the law, made it clear. It's not, it's maybe an adjustment, but we're not saying it's the best possible adjustment, and the minority of constitutional judges who voted differently said it's kind of like doing good. Really, by law, as it is set now, good is done. We impose greater good on people, and it's useless. I assure everyone that I have been very careful, and I am glad that so many Members have been interested, and I thank Marek Benda that he has really helped me with this, or that we have come together to this, we have been very careful that the effect of the smoking and non-smokers department really works. It's really not about that, and I thank Marek Benda for saying that we're getting back on track here. That's just not true. If you read it properly, you'll find that smoking and non-smoking areas are strictly separate. Previously, the completely previous modification had separate spaces, but it was very common that smoking took place either at the bar or at the bathroom, which means in places where everyone had to pass. Now it's set so in this law that the space is separated, it's impassable. Really, non-smokers won't come into it at all. Even the staff won't come into it. The area is unserviced by the staff, which means the staff won't come into it. And only drinks can be brought in, that's not food. A certain controversy can trigger the space of 80 meters where the operator can decide whether it will be smoking or non-smoking. Of course, I'm stressing that the space must only be drinkable, let's just say, food must not be cooked there, which means that only drinks can be served there. And other European countries, in which we have taken inspiration, such as the Kingdom of Denmark, Slovakia, Estonia, Slovenia, other countries, have this adjustment. Basically, it's supposed to correspond to a space that's relatively small. If you take 80 meters of the whole pub, so if you subtract some 20 meters from the toilets, something on the bar, and so on, that means it's a relatively small space. And it's really up to everyone whether they come in or not, because that's how the space is going to be marked. And I was even surprised by Professor Pirk, who even cares more about setting up smoking shops than these, say, bars that are fully smoking. He said that's where everyone can choose. So we're really defending it. Then we remove other things there. The big problem with the current law is what is actually the open space where smoking is allowed. There were conjectures about it. Someone said it had to be some kind of open space, which means there's a clear sky above you. Someone else was saying that there might be umbrellas, someone else, that pergola, someone, that it could be an arcade, or it couldn't be an arcade. So we're specifying it. It's got this impact too. The law specifies what the open space is, so that it is clear and there are no disputes between controllers and operators of inn facilities and customers. On the contrary, there we remove, and this is really a very good incentive of Marek Benda, the complete nonsense that the innkeeper should be responsible for whether the person to whom he served the alcoholic drink after him will perform any activity contrary to the drinking of alcohol. That is, of course, nonsense. We can't ask the innkeeper to estimate whether or not the person who came in would drive. Of course, there may be extreme situations where someone comes in, pulls up in the car outside the pub, takes four beers and five drinks and goes away. I guess so, but in most cases it's impossible to guess. I believe that the law, as it is proposed, preserves what is essential to its opponents, that is, the separation of smokers from non-smokers, but removes the excesses and extremes that the existing law has brought: the liquidation of rural pubs, the crowds of smoking outside, the disputes arising out of it, and so on and so forth. I really think of it as a thing that we want to help, which we want to mitigate the excessive, very intense law. And we want to keep it basic: smoking separation from non-smokers, protection of staff in restaurant facilities from smoking. I'm ready to answer any questions. I have devoted myself to reading other laws from other European countries quite intensively, and whenever I have to, I will respond with a factual remark. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u23	Thank you, too. I now ask Mr Nacher to prepare Mrs Válková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. The number of Members here has been thinned, apparently in the smoking room in the Chamber of Deputies, but the debate will continue. This topic is so strange, it is not shared on the left, on the right, on liberal, conservative, even oddly even for a smoker versus non-smoking, because I am a lifetime non-smoking, yet I am signed under this standard. I'll tell you what it is. This, in my opinion, is the division of the view of alibis and the view of healthy common sense. What do they say? They say, all of you smoke to make money out of it, all of you smoke to make money out of it, but don't do it in the most unnatural environment, don't do it in the pubs. It doesn't even say it everyone smoke it, but so that you can't be seen. If only that were the case. Today it is, and I will not repeat the joke of my colleague Brázdil from the last meeting of the House, that where those smokers were hidden, they are now in public. That means, we're actually telling everyone to see it, we're smoking it, but we're not going to forbid it, because taxes are being levied on it. I will help myself here with a quote from the 35-year-old series Sure, Minister, where it is said that smokers are benefactors of the nation, because they pay huge taxes on cigarettes and die early, and therefore they do not draw social benefits or, respectively, pensions. Medical reasons. That's the most common issue. I guess we don't listen to each other. I already said it last time. I'm not questioning the fact of health reasons, I'm not an expert enough. I'm not questioning the fact. I'm questioning it as an argument. Because if this is the case as an argument, we can't deal with it in this way. What happened to it? We didn't limit, I don't even go as far as last time, no smoking. Prohibition never helped anything. But smoking restrictions, as I understand it. Smoking restrictions. What happened? We only moved the smokers from place A to place B, but at the same time we say 18,000 people die from the consequences a year. Did we do something about it? I'm talking non-smoking again. Nothing. We moved these people so they could be seen more. Me and the kids, now that I'm dating, I see a lot more of those smokers than I've ever seen before. Before, I had a choice not to go to that pub. Now I don't have that choice around the sidewalk, I'm walking by the smokers. And once again, I will help myself with such a sentence from Sure, Minister, which highlights the absurdity of what we are actually discussing here today. And that is, if there is a drug on the market that has some side effects, or a toy that hurts someone, it immediately withdraws the entire batch. There are tens of thousands of people dying here, and all we're gonna do is ban smoking in the most natural environment. That's what I think, don't be mad at me, alibism. [[18.10 hours]] I support anything that reduces smoking. It reduces smoking. Not what moves it somewhere else, and I think the result is much, much worse. I'd like to hear some factual comments about the proposal as well. I don't think it's a dogma. I suppose all the people who signed up for it, we don't want to change anything there. My colleague Brázdil said something. My colleagues whispered something to me. I'm sure you do. But please don't argue with the fight for health. Then it would have to be done if it weren't for the dot, but the colon, and say yes, it has these consequences, we're going to do everything we can to ban production, sales, distribution of tobacco products. Because it's the only logical response. And I said it last time, and I'm happy to sign it. I'm not even gonna argue free enterprise here, even if it's offered. I'm only going to argue here with the return of common sense, and I beg you, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u25	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to another speaker, I have here with Mr Birke's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me to perform a brief technical act. I must admit that as part of the government coalition of the former parliamentary term, I voted in favour of this proposal, I think, together with my former colleagues from the ANO and KDU-ČSL movement. However, here in this case, although I am not signed under the proposal of the amendment, I would like to tell you very briefly the situation from the practice of the mayor of a relatively large city. We're already so far away today that we had to buy even ashtrays to those pubs before that, because not only are we constantly dealing with city police exits, disturbing the peace of the night, but it's an incredible way that this city is a messed up buttocked with sags. You know, I myself smoked 60 cigarettes a day three years ago, and that was the biggest passion for me, smoking. Unfortunately, it almost killed me. But that's not what the novel is about today. And it's not about showing off in front of you. But the truth is that the practice of mayors and municipalities, and now I'm not talking about small towns, I'm talking about those big cities, or medium towns, where there are really many restaurants, bars, night bars, discotheques, so I have to tell you that it's really fun, because I'm constantly getting calls, because as the rule is in the Czech Republic or in Czech cities, it's all the Mayor's fault. I sign here and support the proposal of Marek Benda and other Members of Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u27	Thank you, too. And now Mr. Minister of Health Vojtěch Adam has signed up with priority rights. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course I will also speak on this proposal. I think it's appropriate. I'm sure you've all seen various media outputs in recent weeks and months, which are not only my own, but also a large number of doctors' experts, medical capacities. Of course, I fundamentally disagree with the amendment to this law. It must be said that the law, I was not here in the House, it was really discussed for perhaps 15 years. Various attempts were to accept the ban on smoking indoors in restaurants. After 15 years, when there was actually a rather large social debate, with public opinion polls finally, even though they were initially quite negative to this law, they turned positive over time, with the majority of the public, and we did the survey that I gave you on the bench last time, agree with this law, with the ban on smoking in restaurants. To remind you of this, it is specifically 68 percent of respondents who have been interviewed in the representative research carried out by STEM/MARK, so it clearly states that they do not mind smoking in restaurant facilities. I can quote other questions here, for example. that the three-and-a-half-year majority of the public is not affected by the ban on smoking in restaurants. On the contrary, 20 percent of people say that they go to restaurants more often, or that they didn't go to restaurants before, now they go, etc. But it does not affect the vast majority of people in any way, and most of the public really regard the law as a positive measure. That's the clear data we had processed. So those representatives who are fighting for the law today are basically fighting against most Czech companies. After all, the survey shows that most casual smokers are okay with this, namely 62 percent of occasional smokers are okay with the ban on restaurants. So basically, they're fighting against some smokers. These are just some data that, of course, has evolved in some way in time. It really was a very long social debate. Finally, the law was adopted in that text, and after 12 months of the law's effectiveness, we want to change it. I, therefore, as a lawyer, and Mr Benda also a lawyer, think that we have always learned that the rule of law should be stable, that it should not change too much, that it should give laws some time to apply in practice, so that they can properly evaluate their positive and negative effects. And that didn't happen. The reasoned report on the draft law does not contain any factual arguments based on data, on analysis, on surveys. Those are really just the impressions of the plaintiffs, the feelings of those who may have resented the fact that the law was adopted, but they do not justify the figures, the dates why the law should be amended. And that, of course, is the problem that bothers me. I like to lean on the data. And of course I say, and I say it over and over again in the past, that time is short. That time is short, and let's give the law some time to show if it works or doesn't work. For me, this certificate, of course, consists mainly of health impacts. But that's not just a health issue. It's a question of economics. That is the question - here, of course, there was talk about individual freedom, etc. On the other hand, even the state must think that it must in some way protect itself. And from various representative surveys, analysis shows that smoking costs us 100 billion a year. Crowns. These are the cost of care, of course there is health, and of course these are also social costs, where those who are sick cannot work, receive sick leave, etc., and there are, of course, the costs of lost years of life of those who die of smoking-related diseases. For your information, the difference between smoking and non-smoking time is seven years. This is a relatively large time when a number of people could work, be active economically, pay taxes, and instead, unfortunately, they succumb to smoking - caused diseases. It has also been said here, but it must also be repeated. Smoking damage is clearly proven. Smoking is associated with a three- to four-fold increase in the risk of ischaemic heart disease, a three-fold higher risk of heart attack and an increased risk of sudden heart death, a two-and-a-half-fold higher risk of stroke, a stroke. Nine out of ten cases of lung cancer cause smoking and six times more frequent head and larynx cancer and four times more frequent pancreatic cancer and 14 times more frequent chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. [[18.20 hours]] These are clear data that are documented in scientific studies. And I really think, and it's not just my opinion, it's also a matter of international impact, that what the Czech Republic has done is that it has banned smoking indoors in restaurants, so it has moved to the society of developed countries. When we look within Europe, it's obvious. I have now returned from the World Health Assembly in Geneva, the highest body of the World Health Organization, WHO, where I have dealt with WHO representatives who are very surprised by the fact that this proposal is now here. After all, I don't know if he came to all of you, but he went directly to the President of the Chamber of Deputies Vondráček, a letter from the director of the European Office of the WHO, who expresses really great concern that there is an attempt to re-establish smoking indoors in restaurants, etc., gives clear arguments here why this is wrong. And I have to say, when I was at that World Health Assembly, I had those meetings, so we're going to do this, if again we insist on smoking in those indoor spaces, in some, so, of course, the proposers will say that it's only in some, that it's the smoking shops and we're going to take another step back to the more developing countries, not the advanced ones. I'm afraid that's just the way it is. And in our country, the problem is especially with children and teenagers. From the point of view of the age of the highest prevalence, the smoking of tobacco products in a group of 15 to 24-year-olds is. That's the basic problem. And those children, if they start smoking at this low age, and they are often children much younger, more than a third of 15-year-old children experienced the first smoking before the 13th year of age, if these children start smoking, they are very difficult to get rid of, even if they want to. It's just an addiction. Even according to WHO's classification of international diseases, smoking is a disease. And as such, of course, they are treated in various rehab procedures, etc. Unfortunately, the children, and this also results from a number of surveys, are starting to smoke in restaurants, bars, discotheques, clubs. According to a survey conducted in 2012, 64 percent of people aged 18 to 22 say that they most frequently smoke in these premises, and if smoking was banned, they would not have started smoking, and 30 percent of those who started smoking before the 18th year of age also said that if smoking bans had been applied in those premises, they would not have started smoking at all. So that's the basic problem. If you allow them to smoke or those bars where they don't smoke, then open up the room for these teenagers again to start smoking at all. And that's what I consider to be the basic problem, because then it's hard to do anything about it in the future. Smoking is simply a phenomenon that, from my point of view, is retreating in that advanced civilization, and the reasons are economic. And if it is said that the impact on restaurants is significant, etc., by the way, I did not see any justification for this impact in the explanatory report, then it is necessary to look abroad at how the experience was actually there, and that is precisely the question of assessing the long-term impact. In countries where they banned smoking completely indoors in restaurants such as Norway, Italy, the USA, Ireland, where it was actually the first country, it is clearly demonstrated that in the short term, the markets have decreased their sales, but in the long term, they have increased by 3 to 6 percent, up to CZK 6 billion, the impact is estimated. So the smokers just get used to it, and eventually the ones who didn't go to those pubs, they start going there. That's what the research's all about. So I don't think we can say now that everything is wrong, that restaurants are failing if we evaluate the law after 12 months. And as for the health consequences, once again there is a need to look abroad at the effects of smoking bans. I always like the foreign benchmark, the foreign comparison. And England is the best example in this regard. After ten years of effectiveness, the same smoking ban as in our country evaluated the effects of the law, which are clearly positive. From 26 to 17 percent, the number of people taking tobacco fell between 16 and 24 years of age. This is the group that we need to target primarily by this law. In persons over 35 years of age, the number of deaths from heart disease caused by smoking also decreased, the number of deaths from strokes decreased by almost 14 percent. So these are the effects objectively evaluated, and not just impressions, as I feel from the explanatory report. So I'm simply calling for us not to make such major changes after 12 months of law enforcement. Let us give the law time, at least a few years to be able to objectively, with full awareness and conscience to evaluate all the impacts, and even though this has already been said since, I think, Mr Farhan, those impacts that we have already tried to evaluate at least partially, although I say that this is very difficult, there is a pretty promising tendency, especially for those diseases that are directly related to smoking, acute myocardial infarction, etc., where objectively, objectively again on the basis of data, the number of hospitalized precisely in connection with these diseases has decreased year-on-year. That's an undeniable fact again. But what I'm saying is that it's a very short time, and I'd like to give the law a long time to get his certificate. But I am convinced that the trend will continue, because if smoking is clearly proven to be caused by these diseases, that the result of smoking is cardiovascular diseases, strokes, etc., and we will reduce the space for smoking, it is logical that it must simply have an impact on the health of the population. In the end, this will also have an impact on the economy. That's the basic problem. Again, CZK 100 billion is the total cost, the annual total cost of smoking. And of course, I can talk here about 16,000 people dying, it's one bus full of people, and I already said that at one press conference. So I don't know what anybody here wants to defend. I hear it's the health lobby. Well, I'd much rather be in the health lobby than the tobacco lobby. It is clear that this law is wrong for tobacco companies. When I looked at Philip Morris' global stock developments, they dropped by 16 percent over the last decade. That, of course, is what bothers these tobacco companies. Of course, they're trying to do different forms now, there's new modern cigarettes, where the tobacco is just heating up, there's no fire. I have to say that many of my famous smokers have switched to this form of cigarette from burning tobacco only warmed up, and they do not see a major problem with very passionate smokers, so I think it will also be a trend that smokers, if they do not want to stop smoking, will turn to these alternative forms, which are undoubtedly much healthier and not harmful. So that's an introduction from me, or maybe I'll get off in the middle of a discussion. But again and again, I would like to ask all of you not to take such rash steps after 12 months of law enforcement. Let's give the law some time for at least a few years, and then let's meet, then let's do some professional seminar and let's evaluate objectively the effects of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u29	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to another speaker, I have four factual points here. So first please Mr Kasal, then Mr Veselý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u30	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, surprisingly today I will not talk about health, although I am a doctor. I still want to respond with a comment where I applied closely when the Minister came here, but to my colleague Birke. With us, we are a medium-sized city, I had a conversation with a gentleman who owns about three restaurants, and he surprised me very much by saying "I don't want to go back to it" for one simple reason - because he was very surprised, and that is another thing that should be evaluated, that by smoking there, so he had to vent significantly, probably every day, and found that he had significant savings on heating, significant savings on washing all the things that are there, and of course there were savings in terms of painting. So if it counts, I'm deliberately performing outside of the medical theme today, so there's a need to count these things. And a lot of people and owners from this point of view won't be interested in going back to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u31	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Veselý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u32	I'll respond to the Minister. Minister through Mr President, I will repeat again, you were not here, I will repeat again what Marek Benda said before me. This isn't a law about whether we're allowed to smoke or not. That's not what the law is about. We're just allowed to smoke. It's not like we're not allowed to smoke, and now we're gonna allow it. There's no such thing. So to talk about smoking is, or isn't healthy... I don't think there's anyone here who would think smoking is a good healthy thing. That's nonsense. That's not what this is about. The proposal is merely to preserve the positives that the original law has brought, that is, the strict separation of smokers and non-smokers and restaurant staff from smokers, and that remains preserved, but at the same time to compress the negatives that have arisen. And if, Minister, you want specific data, I'm sorry, I don't have it. We basically did it in two people, or three people, and of course we don't have the means to do some analyses and surveys as a ministry. But you're from South Bohemia like I am, so let's make a deal and I'll take you to specific places where they will specifically tell you how much the visitation of a particular pub in a particular village has fallen. I can dictate it. We'll start in Žďár, we'll go through Tálín, we'll go to Skal and we'll end up in Bouda. Four pubs for two hours - we go through and it's done right away. They're really gonna tell you. Yes, I understand that it doesn't have to be reflected in the total income of the pubs. But there are pubs and pubs. Most of the restaurants were no longer smoked in the cities. Those pubs are dying in the villages. So there are three new ones in the city, and one is lost in the village, and one percent of your income is rising. It's that simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u33	Thank you, too. Now please, with Mr Onderka's factual remark, and Mr Nacher will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u34	Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to respond through the President to the Minister. You know, Minister, I'd even trust you if you didn't say a few things that stopped me, and I assure you that at that moment, I completely lost faith in your research. If your research says that at once 20 percent of the population of the Czech Republic started to go to restaurants because they don't smoke in them, I think it's stupid, because today, more specifically, before the law was effective, there were already many restaurants where there were no smoking. They were purely non-smoking. And we as smokers, and I claim to be a smoker, I had to look for a restaurant that's a smoker if I wanted to smoke in it. And if you don't believe me, I can get you a list from the second largest city in the Republic with the number of purely non-smoking restaurants. As far as you're saying on the one hand, let's give the law a chance, it's only a year, we don't know what it's gonna do -- well, we already know damn well that fewer people are dying. That's where we're fast as thunder from one side. And on the other hand, let's leave it at that. It's interesting that I didn't hear anything like it when we were dealing with the Civil Service Act here an hour ago. We also could have given him a chance to show up in four, eight years, in one two term, how do you manage or fail in those ministries? I don't think it's going back to some states you're comparing that have less democracy or less education. I think we're running a little bit from Kocourkov at last. I'll explain to you the Kocourkov. If the existing law says a smoker can smoke in a restaurant garden where he has an umbrella or an umbrella - [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u35	Ambassador, I must interrupt you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u36	Copy that. I'm gonna sign up again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u37	Thank you. I now ask Mr Nacher and Mrs Adámková to prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u38	Thank you for the floor. I'd take the liberty of responding to the Minister, too. They've already told my previous speakers, and we're saying it again, but I don't know if we're listening to each other. It's not the smoking restriction law, just like it wasn't the last one. He didn't limit anything. You suggest something here to limit smoking, and I'll be the first to be in line. That didn't limit anything. It just relocationd, moved, moved, moved the smokers from the inside out. And all we're doing here is taking a reasonable route, and then we're gonna have fun if it goes through the second reading, how, we're gonna move those outsiders back inside. We're not even talking about smoking restrictions here. Then suggest smoking restrictions, and I'll be the first to sign it. Otherwise, if I have good information, the only state where smoking is strictly forbidden is the kingdom of Bhutan. And when I looked, there are different exceptions in different countries of the European Union. [[A Member of the War on the bench in front of the speaker is laughing.]] Yes, different exceptions. I'd like to ask my colleague if she wouldn't mind, because the time is quite short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u39	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mrs Adámková. Mrs Válková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not direct your attention to smoking, smoking, smoking outside or inside. You're all adults, and anyone who smokes probably won't convince him anyway. But what is very important, and it is in the interests of your children, these are passive smokers. I would just like to remind you that passive smokers, who have never smoked a single cigarette, have significantly smaller fruits, have more frequent pregnancy problems. There are significantly more even deaths in young people, worldwide it is 165,000 per year, as a result of passive smoking. So any dislodgement of it is simply a gambling of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u41	Thank you. Now, please, Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u42	Mr President, dear colleagues, I apologise to Mr Nacher for laughing out loud. But when I hear that the only country is perhaps Bhutan, or I don't know exactly now, I've probably knocked it down, which has a regime that doesn't allow me to smoke, I really have to laugh, if I don't want to comment differently, much more critical. But I would like to tell you what was the result of the public hearing that we held, and it is also our duty that I have been happy to do, quite with the stress of expecting the outcome. As chair of the petition committee, when I called for those who wanted to be heard publicly so-called for a public hearing, where they could present their reservations - because the petition against the current legislation for breaking the ban, I think she had about 60,000 signatures, and once a petition has more than 10,000 signatures, it is at least polite, and we have it in the rules, even if it is not in the Rules of Procedure, to carry out the public hearing. So the public hearing actually happened. The arguments you are saying here are now starting with Mr Nacher, and ending, or beginning, ending, with Mr Birke, who was almost killed by smoking, as he himself said, we have heard these arguments there. But we have heard it in a very majority way, although I am on the contrary, because I am the advocate for this legislation to continue to exist, the one that we have so laboriously adopted after 15 years, I have heard there mostly arguments in order not to approve this legislation. [[Time warning]] But I'm also logged in at the same time. So I think--
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u43	But before your application, there are still factual remarks and with priority rights, Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u44	Well, then, of course, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u45	Thank you. Now please, Minister Vojtěch, and before he gets to the table, I'll read some note cards. Mr Profant apologizes to us from 18.30 to the end of the negotiations for health reasons. And Mrs Maxová has been apologizing to us since 6:00 p.m. for work reasons. Please, Minister, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, only through the President's response to the colleagues who have spoken, I do not want to name them all specifically, but it must be said that what I have said is based on a public opinion poll, which I did not make up. Mr. Onderka said he stopped believing me when I said that, so this is simply a STEM/MARK survey carried out on a representative sample of 1 033 people over 18 years of age, when 20 percent said that they had not gone to restaurants where they smoked, so they are now walking after smoking bans or walking more often. So I didn't make that up, I can give you that, and you can have some fun with STEM/MARK, see if they faked it. And I don't think so. So that's the first thing. With regard to the separate spaces, and sometimes it is often argued by Austria. I happened to be in Vienna at Christmas, where I visited a restaurant like this, separated, in quotation marks. It looked like the restaurant was separated into two parts, but there was a sliding door between those parts, because, of course, the smokers aren't just in there in the smoking room, they have to go somewhere, they go to the bathroom, etc., out for example. And every time the smoker went, which was, of course, very often, the sliding door opened and the smoke rolled into the non-smoking part. So we can take a look, I know exactly where it was, just downtown, in Vienna. And when I saw it there, I thought to myself, "So that's the separate space, that's the smoking shops. Because, of course, those smoking shops have to open up someday, those smokers won't be there the whole time. And unfortunately, smoke has the quality of being very easily distracted. [[Attention on time.]] And that's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u47	Thank you, too. Now, with Mr Onderka's factual comment, Mr Vyzula will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u48	Once again, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues. Mr President, by your means - Minister, a thousand respondents are fine, but perhaps for the city of Brno, not for the whole republic. And they can call it any agency representational survey they want. I'm not talking about it. I am merely telling you that there are things in this law, and it can be laughed at by Mrs Válková, until she can fall behind her stomach through the President, but it is simply the stupid things that the last House approved. Stupid things. And I'll tell you one of them. As a smoker, you can light a cigarette in the restaurant garden under an umbrella and you can't smoke under a pergola. Don't you think this is crazy? Forgive me, but let's engage common sense! That's just bullshit! And there are more of these little things. As for your visit to Vienna, believe me, I've got a piece of it from Brno, I'd be happy to take you there, I'll recommend it. Specifically, I'll give you the address: Mariahilfer Strasse, about halfway to the right side of the cafe, where you can find it, is a smoker and has a glass space for non-smokers. Reverse guard. And as you say, you have a sliding door there, you're right. And they have two devices that blow the smoke away from when the door opens. It's in technology again. But I don't want to talk about that. I'm only going to ask one thing: let's fight smoking, but let's not fight smokers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u49	Well, thank you, too. The Member has now Vyzula a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u50	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. It is a pity that we have come to this issue so late and that we cannot actually fully develop all our abilities and comments and we cannot comment as we would like. It's just a shame. Unfortunately, it's interrupted. And what's interrupted is not well. It's just a few things, time's running out. I beg you, Mr Veselý, through Mr President, who speaks of the fact that this is not about health. But, Ambassador, the law - I've already said it through, I won't repeat it a thousand times - this amendment goes into the Public Health Act. Well, it's about health. Furthermore, as far as Mr Nacher is concerned, through Mr President. He's talking about if it's a smoking restriction, he'll be all kinds of means for it. Oh, please, we're not talking about an absolute ban on smoking here! This is a ban on smoking in certain areas where it is absolute, but otherwise we do not prohibit smoking. That means it's a smoking restriction. And we have experience from countries where this has happened and where they have many years of experience, that smokers have decreased by 7 to 20 percent. In the United States, even 35 percent. Then to Mr Onderk, through Mr President. Mr Onderka, I don't know how it is now, I don't want to hurt him, but not long ago, I couldn't imagine him without a cigarette. And I want to... [[Attention on time.]] So that's the problem we have with time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u51	Thank you, too. Mr Nacher is still registered with a factual remark, and then perhaps we will get to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u52	Thank you for the floor. That's really funny. I remember when the original standard was defended, as one of the examples was given by Austria. Now Austria has gone backwards and now Austria is not a good example. I'm really enjoying this. So either you're consistent or you're not. So either she's taking the examples, and then she's taking it all. Otherwise, in that reaction... Oh, yes! You moved the smokers where they weren't seen, where they were seen. That means it's more advertising for smokers than it was before. It's about common sense. Have fun here in the center of Prague with everyone who lives above the restaurants and cafes, as they hang out there. That's the practice. So all I'm saying is, let's put it back, use common sense! If you come up with any miracle measure limiting, not shifting, limiting smoking, I'll be all ten pros.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u53	Thank you. Mr Vyzula again came forward with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u54	Thank you, Mr President. It is a factual point just to Mr Nacher, who mentioned Austria here. Yes, Austria had in its program that it would ban smoking similar to ours this year from May 1st or something in May. And thanks to the elections that were there in the fall, the right-wing party came to power, the strongly right-wing party that had it in their program, and where they had to just push it through. Okay, but that was a political decision. However, you certainly did not miss the fact that a ban on smoking in cars was imposed in Austria a few days or weeks ago. And that, I think, is a major intervention in man's freedom. We also had it in the proposal at the time, even in two amendments it was, and it did not pass. It passed in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u55	I, too, thank you, and now please, with Mr Benda's priority right as a plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u56	Thank you. Once again, we are in a phase where we are discussing whether smoking is harmful or not, and not what we have put forward. Nevertheless, I took the liberty of signing up, in particular, for a speech by the Minister, in which some things are misleading, some things that are inaccurate, and I would like them to be set straight. [[18.50 hours]] Firstly, discussing whether or not we allow children or adolescents to smoke there under 18 years of age. So, of course, our bill prohibits persons under the age of 18 from entering restaurants and facilities and the space in which they smoke. So you stay out of this. We're not talking about kids. We're talking about adults, please. First remark. Second point. To tell me that smokers live on average seven years of shorter age, I don't know who calculated it, but let's say I believe you this thesis and that they work less and don't pay taxes. With an average life expectancy, as you know, 79 years in the Czech lands, they live 72 on average. So they're less retired. No less work and pay taxes. So I'd just like those things to sound really fair. Three. The rapporteur here repeated it, and now the Minister of Justice, number 100 billion, repeats it again. A crown that's sucked out of a finger like that. I've never seen any real basis for him. That's some kind of guess somebody made up. He said, maybe it's worth something in the health department. Honestly, there's hardly anyone in the health sector who can say yes to you, this disease was caused by smoking. All the doctors will tell me that. Yes, there are diseases that increase probability if I smoke that I will be sick. At the same time, the rapporteur has already put 40 billion on the air in his intelligence report. tax collection. Well, I did it on purpose. Last year's excise duty income on tobacco is 56,219 and VAT on tobacco products is 16,917 billion. So just so we don't really shoot those numbers from the side. I am deeply convinced that smokers will pay much more than they will use from the real system. And that doesn't include the pensions. But I don't want to defend whether it's okay or not to smoke. That's a real decision for all of us. Just please don't get mad. And then, the Minister likes to blame us for not having analysis, data, other data. Well, of course we don't. We're just simple Members, each with one assistant. Where would we get the money for analysis and data? But I'm glad the Minister gave us the STEM survey. All you have to do is look at it. When they lay down - the most discussed part of the anti-smoking law is a total ban on smoking in restaurants and catering facilities. Does it bother you personally that you can't smoke inside restaurants? The difference in preferences according to the type of restaurant, pub, beerhouse, will work out for sure. And rather yes is more than certainly no and rather no. So tell me what the survey is testifying to. And that's your research. I didn't do that. I'm just wondering how much the Department of Health cost, of course. But maybe we'll find out sometime. Likewise, on page 4 - another interesting pie. It's gonna be a year since the anti-smoking bill started. Some insist on its validity or require it to be tightened. Others ask for mitigation or cancellation. You personally would have tightened the anti-smoking law - and again, please add your answers - completely canceled and reduced, giving 50 percent, tightened and left unchanged 47 percent. Another three percent doesn't know. So, again, most Czech companies think that what Members Benda, Veselý, Nacher and 85 others put forward is a proper and wise act. So please don't confuse us. It's a good thing, and I believe we can push it through. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u57	Well, I thank the honourable Member. I now have, with a factual remark, Minister Vojtěch again. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u58	Thank you for the floor. I don't want to argue about percentage here. I think we need to look at the trend that's obvious from my point of view. And whoever wants to see it sees it. But there's one more thing I'd like to say. I'll tell you when the cliché says the smokers will pay for their treatment. It's important to say that there's a public health insurance system here that's a lot of money. It's about 300 billion today. Crowns. And this package of money is intended for the treatment of all patients in the Czech Republic. Now, if we're talking about the costs for health care only, I agree, they're lower. I was talking about the 100 billion. as an all-social cost. The medical bills are estimated at 30 billion somewhere. per year. Although, of course, I agree that the estimates are different, but in principle, this is how it works if there are health impacts. But it must be said that this money is then missing somewhere else. And smoking causes diseases that are simply preventable. You don't have to smoke, but there are thousands of patients who haven't caused their disease. Rare diseases when children with these diseases were born. They didn't create them themselves. And their treatment costs a lot of money. Often one such patient costs, like, 20 million a year, his treatment. So isn't it better just to save the money and give it to those who didn't cause their disease? Because it's still the same amount of public health insurance money. That's what I'm talking about. And that's why I care about this as the Minister of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u59	Well, thank you for keeping time. We have four minutes to go. I'll ask Madam Válková Member if she wants to get off. [[He doesn't want to.]] Next time, okay. Well, in that case, I'm gonna interrupt that point for today and I'm gonna... If anyone else doesn't have anything organized to tell us, I'd remind you that we'll continue tomorrow at nine o'clock. There is an extraordinarily included point of the Marrakesh Protocol on the plan, or the Convention signed in Marrakesh, and it will probably be followed by points according to the programme, that is to say from 21, and of course at the beginning of the day proposals may be made for changing the agenda. This item is interrupted, and until it's re-enlisted, we'll never see it at this meeting again. Mr. Benda wants to be organized?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u60	I do not know, Mr President, but I do not see this as a fair procedure, because at this point we are discussing this point. I understand that tomorrow morning some point is fixed, and I respect that, but after that, negotiations on this point are to continue. If the House has a point to settle, then it should continue to negotiate on this point, unless there are any fixed positions. If they're fixed, then I totally understand. But other than that, I don't understand why we should push him anywhere just because we didn't have enough to negotiate him today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-021-028.u61	I understand. However, this point has been firmly placed on today. And if some point is fixed somewhere, and then it doesn't work out, it's not going to continue. I suggest you propose tomorrow morning that we continue after Marrakech, for example. If no one else has anything organized, then I'm interrupting today's meeting, or this meeting, by tomorrow at nine o'clock. Thank you for your attention.
