ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u1	87. Government proposal by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to express its consent to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union (the House Press 97/ - second reading) The proposed proposal will be introduced gradually by Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and then by Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček, which may not happen, so I ask the Minister to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me once again mention here the Government's proposal for the Czech Republic's approach to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union, known as the fiscal pact - I will continue to use only this shortcut. First, I would briefly summarize the current discussion of the fiscal pact in the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and then I will focus mainly on the arguments of the opponents of the fiscal pact, which have already been raised repeatedly. For the first time, the Government approved accession to the Treaty by its resolution on 24 March 2014 and again on 14 February 2018. In the Senate, the proposal was discussed by the Committee on Economics, Agriculture and Transport, the Committee on EU Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence. All Senate committees have recommended giving consent to access to the treaty. The Senate plenary discussed the proposal on 18 July 2018 and the resolution adjourned the discussion of this proposal until the hearing in the Chamber of Deputies. The Chamber of Deputies addressed the proposal at first reading during May and June, after which it was assigned to discuss the Foreign and Budget Committee. The Committee on Budgets discussed the proposal on 5 September 2018 and the Foreign Committee on 7 September 2018, both of which recommended that the ratification be approved. The two co-chairmen of the proposal shall treat the contract as an international treaty which does not confer powers under Art. 10a The Constitution and the ratification of which will suffice the consent of a simple majority of the members in both chambers of Parliament. The relevant provisions of the Treaty range within the limits of the competences already delegated to the European Union and complement them. The Treaty does not delegate any new powers to the European Union or to any other international organisation or institution, but refers to the existing and functioning mechanisms of European law. This is therefore an international treaty called. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. 49 The Constitution, which is sufficient to be approved by a simple majority in both chambers of Parliament, also applies in the event of future accession to Titles III and IV. [[11.10 hours]] The committee also raised the question of the national procedure in case the Government of the Czech Republic intends to be bound by all or part of the provisions of Titles III and IV of this Treaty at an earlier time. It must be noted that the Czech Constitutional Order does not explicitly regulate the conditions and procedures for such a case, nor does the current practice address it. This is not a formal reservation for an international treaty, since the exemption from the applicability of Titles III and IV results directly from the provisions of the Treaty. On the basis of this, two interpretation alternatives can be outlined. One. When highlighting the notification referred to in Article 14 (2), the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14 (2). 5 of the contract as an act of application of an already existing ratified contract, when Parliament giving approval for ratification is objectively aware of the content of the contract, including in the contract of captured mechanisms capable of establishing different variants of the scope of legal obligations, can be considered the adequacy of the notification, whose only national translation would be the approval of the government with subsequent dispatch of the depositary. Two. However, it would not have been a modification of the text of the contract if we considered the factual scope of the commitments that come under the contract without further agreement, it is clear that they differ significantly from the scope of the commitments which, with the possible notification provided for in Article 14 (2) of the Treaty. 5 contracts may be awarded. It is a question of how much Parliament's approval is actually envisaged by other governments with the scope of the international obligations arising from the treaty, namely, whether the consent may involve a delegation of such a disposition to the government and whether the government's thus designed discretion corresponds to Parliament's constitutional function in the field of standardisation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of On the contrary, 5 contracts could be viewed materially as a form of withdrawal of reservations on the international treaty. The announcement would therefore have to be discussed in the same way as if it were a treaty amendment, that is, before the President's ratification, the draft notification would have been submitted to the Parliament of the Czech Republic to express its consent. This is a specific and unsolved situation, and therefore it is not possible to give a clear answer, however, because of the legal certainty and certain credibility of the Czech Republic, if the national procedure for accepting international commitments should not subsequently be challenged nationally, the co-premissors and the Minister of Justice agree that the second of these procedures should be applied with the assumption of mandatory consultation in Parliament and ratification by the President of the Republic. I presume that only the Constitutional Court can be the final arbiter in this matter if the procedural conditions are met. And I would now mention the most frequently mentioned reasons for not adopting a fiscal pact, which are primarily the following assumptions. Firstly, that the fiscal pact is allegedly not implemented by many states and its implementation is not controlled by anybody. Secondly, at the moment when the Czech Republic has not adopted the euro, there is no need for a fiscal pact at all. Thirdly, last but not least, some have mistakenly linked him to the adoption of the euro. So I would like to rebut these inaccuracies. There is no way in which it can be argued that the fiscal pact has not been implemented. Implementation of the numerical fiscal rules contained in the fiscal pact, i.e. the rules of structurally balanced public finances, the rules on public debt, are regularly assessed by independent national institutions in accordance with the national law of the Contracting Parties and at European level by the European Commission, and the Council and its working bodies, respectively. Two. Ratification of the contract is advantageous for the Czech Republic because it will allow it not only to participate, but also to participate fully in discussions during the Eurosummit. Three. Accession to the fiscal pact also in no way obliges the Czech Republic or in any way brings it any closer to access to the euro area. Although the Treaty is primarily addressed to the euro area countries, its ratification does not affect the decision of the Czech Republic to join the euro area and does not further oblige us to do so. In December last year, the government decided not to set the date of entry into the euro area and the proposal for accession to this Treaty does not change anything. Last but not least, let me reiterate once again that the Czech Republic is the last country not to join the fiscal pact, which is hardly understandable for our European partners and in view of the state of our public finances. In conclusion, I would also like to point out that if, in the future, the Government had decided to be bound by all or part of Titles III and IV of this Treaty at an earlier moment, co-premissors and the Minister of Justice held that such a commitment should again be subject to the whole ratification process, and the Government would therefore not have free hands in order to decide on the earlier binding nature of the provisions of Titles III and IV without Parliament's consent and ratification by the President of the Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We have ordered this House press to discuss both the Foreign Committee and the Budget Committee. The committee resolution was delivered to us as the House's press 97/1 and 2. I will now ask the rapporteur of Mr Jan Kubík's foreign committee to introduce us to the committee and to justify the resolution. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u4	Hello again. Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer again to the Minister's speech, because I think that everything has already been said on this subject. The debate was detailed and long not only on the premises of this House, but also on committees. Therefore, I will only shorten my speech to present the resolution of the Foreign Committee, which has been designated by the Committee of Guarantees. Resolution of the Foreign Committee of the 17th meeting of 6 September 2018 on the Government proposal by which the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union, House press 97. After the statement of reasons of Deputy Minister of Finance JUDr. . Lenka Dupáková, D, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs JUDr. Martin Smolek, ., Mr. Jan Kubík's report and the Foreign Committee's debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic gives consent to access to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union signed in Brussels on 2 March 2012; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report at the Chamber of Deputies meeting on the results of this government proposal at a meeting of the Foreign Committee - which I also do. That's all for me. I would like to ask you to support the ratification of this treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. The rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets is Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, so I ask him to introduce us to the committee. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u6	Yes, Mr. Vice-President. I'm sure I will. Unfortunately, I can't meet the last one, as you said, to justify. In fact, I do not know why the Committee recommended it for approval, because there are no rational reasons for this. But in order to meet my responsibilities: the Committee on Budgets has discussed this at its proper meeting, I will not read after the opening words and speeches of those or those, the basic opinion of the Committee on Budgets is that the Committee on Budgets has recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to approve this Treaty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u7	Thank you. I think that is how we have complied with the Rules of Procedure. I am now opening the debate. First of all, Vice-President Okamura with priority rights, followed by President Stanjura, is entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we have again on the agenda the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union, the so-called fiscal pact of the European Union. I would like to repeat simple and legible arguments as to why not vote for this treaty. These proposals in practice mean one thing: the loss of control of sovereign states over their budgets. Of course, the SPD movement will not support the adoption of a fiscal pact. A few days ago, we celebrated a hundred years since our ancestors finally won sovereignty over the national European state. It must be said that we have become a part of this situation voluntarily by voting for Czech states. We entered it as an absolutely sovereign country, but the centralist government of this multinational society gradually combed our rights and our sovereignty to the moment when we became, in essence, merely an economic colony controlled from a bureaucratic center outside our country. [[11.20 hours]] The fiscal pact is another step towards bringing the Czech Republic closer to the euro area and to the common budgetary policy of the European Union. I will stress this for the Minister that what we are saying, and that is simply true, a fiscal pact is another step towards bringing the Czech Republic closer to the euro area and to the common budgetary policy of the European Union. I repeat several times that in the debate on the pact, we should not talk about the budgetary discipline and how we could use it. That our governments manage economically, we want, I believe, all of us. And together, let's promote it. But there's no need for a fiscal pact. In fact, we know how any rules within the European Union have turned out in many cases. No pacts and economic conventions helped Greece, Italy, Spain or Portugal, but pushed them to fake economic results. To do the right thing, we need decency, reason, and enforceable responsibility for those who manage public money. We in the SPD have been proposing a Swiss model for years, a long-term balanced budget, where it is, of course, possible to respond flexibly to, for example, economic cycles through temporary deficits, but with the obligation to cope with them in a time of prosperity. Of course, given the seriousness of the decision on the adoption of the European Union's fiscal pact, when it is indeed a significant part of national sovereignty, virtually. The real issue is that we are losing a significant part of national sovereignty, nor does this House have any right and mandate to decide on such a matter. It should be a question of referendum. If you want to take other powers from our state, if you want to subjugate it again a little more to the foreign government in Brussels, then only the country's owners - all citizens - have the right to decide - not us, by using the trustees' mandate to defend their interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u9	Thank you. Mr Stanjura will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u10	Thank you for the floor. When I said in the news report that I don't understand why it was budgeted or what the reasons were for the Committee to support it, I meant it. I could only speculate. I think you can find the answers to serious questions on the House of Deputies website. If you read the questions I asked in writing to the Minister, then you must come to the same conclusion as we did. This contract is useless. In fact, we only approve the introduction and the conclusion, so do the Minister and the Government. And it is very difficult to enforce. These days, I am watching the public debate on Italy's budgetary discipline, a great member of the European Union, and I am very curious about how this debate will end. However, I believe that this is the power of the government of a particular State and of Members or Senators, depending on how they have adjusted the approval of the state budget, to decide what the state budget will be in a particular Member State. I say that I am a fan of our membership of the European Union. But that doesn't mean I won't have a critical view of things I consider unnecessary or harmful. I agree with the Minister that at this point, after the ratification, this thing is useless. Maybe it's always like that, our poor Prime Minister would be left behind, but if we vote today, they'll invite him to the table to wisely discuss eurozone problems with them or something. I consider it at least rude for the Czech Prime Minister to stand by the door at some meeting and beg to join the negotiating table. I don't even think it's gonna happen. Not only is it rude, but I don't think it's a threat, and it's an imaginary substitute argument. I never received any information that this would happen to any Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. And that's right. And I could keep repeating our arguments here forever, but I won't do it today. We've been saying them in the Chamber of Deputies for four years. Nothing's changed about that. Nothing's changed about the fiscal compact. The only thing that's changed is the YES approach. That's the only thing that's changed. Because if they had held this view today in the previous term, the treaty was ratified three years ago. They were in agreement with us then. Then they left the opinions. I don't know why. I can speculate. I'm not gonna speculate what's behind this. That is why the ratio of the forces of supporters and opponents of the vote has changed, or the ratification of this treaty. Instead of having a serious debate about our own budgetary rules, so that we have a serious debate about the real financial constitution, which will be adopted by a constitutional majority, which will also anchor automatic brakes and similar mechanisms, instead of openly saying that this is our business and it is in our interest to manage reasonably, surpluses in times of growth and perhaps deficit in times of economic crisis, we are here approving something that has no meaning. Our attitude is well known for a long time. We are in favour of strict budgetary rules in the Czech Republic. We're ready for this debate as we were ready five years ago, three years ago, so we're ready for it today, next year, next year. But that would have to be the interest of the government parties to have such a serious debate, and not such tricks, I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, I've saved $10 billion. And how did you do that, Madam Secretary? Well, I raised my income by 10 billion. This is called saving and reducing the deficit in the draft budget for 2019. I'm not gonna bother the debate today. We'll have a second, third reading on the budget. For our club, I want to confirm our long-term position. We will vote against ratification because - and the Minister did not talk me out of it in her speech, rather confirmed - it is unnecessary. And who of us would sign, ratify an unnecessary contract in our private lives?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u11	Thank you. A point of fact will be taken by Mr Jan Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I have one question for my colleague Okamura, through you, to give me some examples here, when we come to the euro-compact in this form, of losing a considerable part of our powers. I don't understand. I just don't see it at all. And if he says so, let him tell me a few powers that we will lose with this accession. To the performance of my colleague Zbyněk Stanjura. He says it's a useless thing, a thing that doesn't solve anything. However, I emphasise here again, we are the last state of the eurozone, or the European Union, which is not in this association. And if he says it's useless, it's unsolvable, then I'm surprised that - yes, he expressed his opinion, that's legitimate, and I take him very seriously. But why doesn't he let it go? So whether the government and the government coalition thinks it's not useless, whether they vote it out, whether they want it or not. And I still have such a bad feeling, and it started, again, to be fair, even when we blew up our government at the time of our Presidency, and we blew up the Prime Minister. Couldn't we at least wait until the end of our presidency? It was a great shame throughout Europe that our coalition, whether left or right, always follows: the worse, the better for the ruling coalition. And I think that is not a very good signal for Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u13	Thank you. Now with priority rights in the debate, President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u14	Thank you for the floor. I will be very brief because I have already expressed the position of the parliamentary club at first reading. Just a brief response to your previous speakers. President Stanjura said that the ODS has been consistent in its position for four years. I'd even say much longer. I remember well the discussion in the government when, as Minister of Finance, I, together with Minister of Foreign Affairs Schwarzenberg, tried in vain to persuade my coalition partner to join the fiscal compact. The reasons we said are still the same, and the reasons that ODS says are still the same. It's been really six years, so I'm not going to burden the Chamber of Deputies with this discussion anymore, and I'm just saying, we've been as consistent in our opinion for six years as the consistent ODS on the other side. Please, that's correct. But I have a big request, since we're already arguing that we don't lie about it. Vice-President Okamura spoke here and said: accession to this fiscal treaty, I think I will quote accurately, means nothing more than the loss of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic over its public budgets. Please, that's 100% untrue. As the government submits to us for ratification, there is no letter, nor an interpuncture sign, from which it could be concluded that the Czech Republic would lose even a millimeter of its sovereignty over public budgets by ratifying this treaty, with the exception of Titles III and IV. In this context, Vice-President Okamura could say that ratification of this Treaty is nothing more than an influx of illegal migrants. Because it would be the same stupidity and haunting people. So please, let's not use these pseudoarguments that have no support in the truth in this discussion. I have respect for the contrary, but I have no respect for information that is exclusively fake news!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u15	Thank you. Mr Benešík will now speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As President of the European Committee, I would like to underline what has already been said here. The Czech Republic does not lose sovereignty in this area unless it wants to share the competence itself voluntarily. Until we enter the euro area, which will again be the decision of the Czech Republic, no one else, Title III and IV will apply. These are the provisions of this Treaty which would mean the transfer of competences. Otherwise, this is more or less just a possibility of access to negotiations, access to information. And the Czech Republic, as an open economy, should be interested in having access to information about the euro area. So losing sovereignty here isn't correct, it's not true. But I am aware that it will look very impressive on Facebook profiles, even if it isn't true!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u17	Thank you. President Bělobrádek cancels his apology from now until 13:00 and we will continue with another factual remark, with which Mr Klaus will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u18	Hello. We are in Parliament, this debate is political. And let us say openly, ratification of this matter, this fact is preparing for entry into the euro area. That's how it is. You can keep it a secret here, of course, that nothing's really going on, but that's how it is. Open a newspaper. We see that 16 Members already consider the EU to be the senior Parliament, that they are gathering somewhere, here they are meeting and watching who is saying some bad things, etc. We, who see it the other way around, who do not want the euro, also warn against adopting this fiscal pact, because it is preparation. If we don't accept it, of course, we hold on to that sovereignty more strongly. Period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u19	President Kalousek will make a point of fact, after which Mr Benešík will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u20	With all due respect to the foreman, it's not true. It is not possible to interpret this contract as a preparation for entry into the euro area. Yes, it is true that it would not be possible to join the euro area unless we signed this treaty. That's true. But it is not possible to turn around and say: signing this treaty means preparing for entry into the euro area. That's not true anymore. That's a false shift. I can also prove that this treaty has been ratified by states which, unlike us, have negotiated a permanent exception from joining the euro. And I can reassure all the opponents of the euro that no one will force us there. That's just our political decision, which we either make or we don't. And if we ratify this treaty, we won't be moved by a millimeter to make that decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u21	Thank you. The following are the factual remarks of Ondřej Benešík and Radim Fiala. Mr. Benešík has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think we should abandon the strategy that a hundred times repeated lies become the truth. Let's just keep it fair and square. I know we can have different political views on where the Republic should belong or be directed, but please don't lie about it, let's just call on ghosts who don't exist, and let's be fair in this discussion. I know political points can be chased in different ways, but I think there are things that are too serious to lie to or connect to half-truths or fiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u23	Thank you. President Radim Fiala - factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u24	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond, through Mr President, to Mr Kalousek and Mr Benešík. I don't think it's necessary to use the fact that someone's lying here, but to argue why they're lying. Mr Benešík has now convinced us through Mr President that we are all lying here and that everything is wrong, but I think the truth is in the first part of what he said that we all want the Republic to go somewhere else. The fiscal pact clearly leads us to the eurozone, it is a salami method, it is one of the parts that we will have to sign to become part of the eurozone. Of course, this means adopting the euro in the euro area, and right after that, it is called. The fourth part of European integration, which means fiscal integration, which is sometimes in the future, is somewhere far away, where all the budgets of the European countries in the euro area will be grouped together and redistributed in Brussels. So we're just saying clearly that we're not for this trip. We're at the beginning of this journey. At the beginning of the trip, the first foot we are burying today is a fiscal pact, and we simply say that we do not want it to be ratified and signed, that we do not want the fiscal pact of officials from Brussels to control the state budget, for example, and we say that this is just the first step. And we don't want to take this first step on this road anymore, and we want to have our own order here. After all, we are able to keep order and order in the state budget, not to be controlled by an official from Brussels!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u25	Thank you. The President Kalousek will respond to a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u26	I've been approached, so I'll try to respond politely. If anyone says that ratification of this treaty, as it is presented, means the loss of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic over its public budgets, it is simply a lie. And anyone who reads it knows because there's no such thing. And I'm sorry I'm not gonna lie to roses. A lie is a lie. It's just a lie, there's nothing to be done. If you show me one word outside of Title III and Title IV that we have an exception from, if you show me one word where we are losing sovereignty over our public budgets, I will apologize. But I've read it so many times, I know it's not there. [[11.40 hours]] With regard to the presentation of the draft budget to the European Commission, Vice-President Fiala has been doing so through Mr President, the Czech Republic has been doing so for ten years. It always does this in the form of a convergence programme at the end of April, as all the countries of the European Union have committed, all the countries of the European Union do, and you must remember that you still approved the convergence programme in the Committee on Budgets, so that is it, and it is nothing that restricts our sovereignty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u27	The following are the factual remarks made by Mr Benešík, Mr Munzar, Mr Klaus, Mr Peksa and Mr Radim Fiala in this order. Mr. Benešík has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So I got off here briefly twice. Right away, President Fiala responded to my speech and said that I said that everyone here is lying and everything is wrong. I guess I was just talking about how this debate is moving because I didn't say "everyone here is lying" and that everything is wrong. As President of the European Committee, I can really assure you, and I have proposed and finally adopted a resolution many times in plenary. The Chamber of Deputies clearly points out that I am not a Eurohujer, that I simply do not accept fundamentally everything that Brusel sends us in a blue flag with yellow stars. And I'm critical. On the other hand, let us be objective and conduct the discussion correctly. So I certainly didn't say what Chairman Fiala said about me. I appeal to my previous performances that in exactly like this, half a minute after my performance, my statement will shift like this. And I think, if it was in a week, two, a year - good, he might not remember it, but that he got off right after me and said what I really didn't say, and I couldn't even say it like that, it's just exactly how this discussion isn't supposed to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Munzar, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I think it's about whether it's the first step towards the euro or not, that's what the poodle is about. Andrej Babiš said this in 2014 as Minister of Finance of the Common Government of ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL: I think the way to the euro is long. More or less, we agreed to start with a fiscal pact, which also has various coalternatives. That should be the first step, said the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. I would therefore like to know how the current government feels about this. Is there a statement to be made? Is this a sequel, is this really the first step towards the euro from the perspective of this government? Or has there been any change, and is there any other reason? Although I can't imagine what it is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u31	Thank you. Mr Klaus's point of fact follows. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u32	Well, when the Prime Minister said that the fiscal pact was the first step towards the euro, it's pretty clear. I understand that, despite all the intellect of Mr Kalousek, he cannot get over it emotionally and must be in opposition to the Prime Minister's opinion, but that is so. But I have made a point of fact about Mr Benešík's last speech, because I am sorry, you are alive - through Mr President - you are the living reincarnation of MEP Roithová. She said the same thing: you're haunted, don't worry, boo-boo, that they'll somehow redistribute some of those migrants here, etc. Four or five years have passed, we have it live here, the MEP is furiously erasing the original video that was the election. And you act exactly the same way, and people who don't want the euro like I do, which is why they're coming up to you now because my constituents don't want it either, and that's why I'm voting against it. That's the whole thing. But don't do it again, the haunting and the words about the lying, because it's old! I'm gonna get cut off again, I'm gonna put it next to your MP, and five years from now, when there's something yelling that you're afraid of, there's a common army, it's just like if we approve it, it's the same song again, you do it all the time, and by the salami method you're cutting off the sovereignty of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u33	Thank you. Mr Peksa's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u34	Thank you for the floor. I didn't intend to perform much anymore, because I'm afraid everything has really been said, and maybe everyone has already said so, so maybe we can move on to the vote now. I just wanted to go with the concept of sovereignty. This is where the Czech Republic continues to lose its sovereignty. Please, the Czech Republic as a sovereign country has the right to conclude international treaties and ratify them, thus by this process completely, but absolutely cannot lose sovereignty. On the contrary, she would lose her sovereignty if she couldn't do it. Technically, what you're trying to get through here is nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u35	Now, with a point of fact, President Radim Fiala, then President Kalousek, followed by Mr Benešík. Okay, President Radim Fiala withdraws his point of order. President Kalousek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u36	Thank you for the floor. Please, one more time. Yes, it is true that it is not possible to enter the euro area without ratification of the fiscal treaty. It is not true that ratification of the fiscal treaty means entering the euro area. At least those of us who studied mathematics and did the logic exam should understand this fact. To my previous speakers, just a little wonder. If anyone thinks of it as a credible witness who has consistent views, it is Prime Minister Babiš, then it is some sophisticated humour that I do not understand, or a lack of real arguments anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u37	Thank you. Mr Benešík, followed by Mr Jan Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As far as my views, positions, but also concrete work are concerned, look at the resolution of the Committee on European Affairs in many areas, such as the migration mentioned. So one thing is some subjective opinion of someone who tells me something that I'm reincarnated. I'm a practicing Catholic, I don't believe in reincarnation. I don't think reincarnation exists. But there are other things I believe in. So I certainly can't be reincarnated. My attitudes are authentic, traceable, and I think that even my work in the European Committee can make a picture of myself. But now that we have entered this personal plane, I think that the Lisbon Treaty was signed by a president named Václav Klaus. And there's no reincarnation, there's a relative relationship.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u39	With a factual remark, Mr Jan Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I am quite glad that today, my colleague Munzar has finally proved completely pregnant, as he reads his contributions. He gets something in his hand and he doesn't read it in advance without thinking about it, goes to the counter and reads it. Otherwise, he could not have read the statement by Mr. Babiš's finance minister at the time, because a quarter hour earlier, he said it very clearly and correctly. Yes, if we weren't in the fiscal compact, we can't join the euro. But if we're in a fiscal compact and we're there for a year, two, five, ten, fifteen years, no one's gonna force us to accept it. So it's true that it's the first step, but nothing ties us to it. That means, my colleague Munzar got the paper, he read it here without realizing that this is exactly what Kalousek said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u41	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Foldyna. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u42	Thank you for the floor. When I hear here that the signing of this pact is the first step towards joining the euro area, I will just mention the last poll in the Czech Republic that 73 percent of Czech citizens do not want to join the euro area. So I think we should also take into account what these people think that they sent us here. And I think that it is more important than what some people think completely elsewhere than in the Czech Republic. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u43	With a point of fact, Madam Secretary. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u44	One sentence. I've already made all the arguments that came out here, they've been said, I've responded to them all. Please read this government's programming statement. It clearly states that this government will not enter the euro area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u45	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Langšádlová will respond with a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u46	Thank you for the floor. Yes, it has been said a hundred times that this commitment does not mean that it is a commitment to join the euro area. But I must admit that I am surprised, through Mr President, that I was surprised by the words of my colleague, Mr Foldyna, because I expected that social democracy would depend on employment, wage growth, on our success. Whether we are in the euro area or outside the euro area, we are extremely close to the euro area. In our country, a large part of GDP is created thanks to exports to the euro area, our entrepreneurs depend on exports to the euro area, and many jobs are created as a result. I think it is in our interest that the euro area should be in its best shape. And I believe that it is in our interest if we want to continue to be a good country, where there will be jobs so that we can be even closer to the euro area, because that is in our economic interest and in ours. In short, the eurozone is one of the richest parts of the world. We are linked within the EU to this part of Western Europe. And I believe that it is in our interest that it is in the interests of Czech citizens that we should integrate more, because it is simply a good prerequisite for our success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u47	Thank you. Now I'm just going to introduce you to the next debate. The factual remarks of the Lords of Skopeček, Munzar, Veselý, Peksa will follow. Furthermore, Minister Petříček, President Farský, is with priority right to the debate in this order. And then there will be a follow-up to the Members who have applied in writing. So there is a factual remark from Mr Skopeček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u48	Thank you for the floor. I'm disciplined for about half an hour logged in without getting to the floor. I will not now say the arguments that I will make in my standard speech against the fiscal pact, but I would like to respond to the Minister of Finance, who said this so that we can read the government's programming statement, where it is that the Czech Republic does not want to enter the euro area. If we were to put a super-gross wage on your programming statement, like the previous government, we don't have a super-gross wage here long ago, we have lower taxes. None of what you wrote in the program statement happened. I'm sure it said you were going to do retirement reform. We don't have her here until today either. So if we were to rely on the programming statement, we're already one foot in the euro today. I just have to see Mr. Andrej Babiš's contradictory statements. At one point, he just wanted the euro, the second moment when the poll showed that people didn't want it, he turned it around. And I am afraid that we can expect this incoherence from him in any case, including the euro. So that's really not an argument for me. And to Mrs Langšádlová through the President. The fact that we are linked to the eurozone is a normal life. Our exporters export to the euro area, they export more and more every year. Volumes are record-breaking and it is without the euro and it is without the fiscal pact. Our business ties with the eurozone are done by business entrepreneurs, and nothing prevents them from having a Czech crown, and they don't need a fiscal pact that isn't really about it. They're odd arguments. Let's get back to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u49	Thank you. Mr Munzar's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I want to respond to a fellow Volný who, I see, has left. So please, Mr President, tell him that no one gave me any papers. I printed out this statement, I quoted it here at first reading. And I'm really interested in the perception of government. I understand that he may not be able to join the euro any longer. I wonder if the government is preparing when this is going to be the first step, other steps and so on. I have the opposite opinion. And I'm saying my opinions here. And if there are no arguments, here comes a personal assault. And I think it's useless. Then please take care of this, Mr President, to Mr Volný. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u51	Thank you. Mr. Veselý, Mr. Peksa after him. Real notes. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By your means, I must respond to Helena Langšádlová, although we often agree. I understand that her performance by my colleague, Foldyna, can provoke her. However, he didn't say anything so horrible today in my opinion. He, of course, is in a different position than I am with the European Union. The Czech Social Democratic Party is a pro-European party, it is a known thing, there is no doubt. And he just said a fact that we have to work on. The vast majority of Czech citizens, and really overwhelming, do not wish to join the eurozone at this time. Why? Because no one explains what good it will do them, and everyone feels that it will bring them something bad. We have to work on that. We started working on it together today. And please take the Czech Social Democratic Party as a party that sees our future, the future of our country clearly in the EU. As a party who knows that without existence, our existence in the EU will not grow wages, there will be no growth in the economy, and we will look at the backs of countries like Bulgaria, Romania, we will say that they are not so far away from us, and we will be glad that we are better off than Belarus and Moldova. We realize that, and that's how it is, and it just isn't different with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u53	Mr Peksa, with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u54	First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues from the ODS for taking the initiative to open up the issue of joining the euro area. It's undoubtedly interesting. I think this is a much more complex debate, because we should first clarify whether and how to ensure that the euro area has functional control and stabilisation mechanisms so that the crisis of 2008. Then we can have fun if there's any point in entering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. There is no further factual point, so we will proceed to those who are enrolled in the general debate. First of all, Minister Petříček will speak with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to enter into this debate with the fact that I would like to stress that the Czech Republic is currently the last EU Member State except the emerging UK, which is not yet its contracting party. Access to the Treaty is, in my opinion, an important signal, an important political signal to our partners in the EU and confirms the interest of the Czech Republic to be an active member of the Union. In particular, accession to the Treaty of the Czech Republic will guarantee the possibility of actively attending the Eurozone Summit in an inclusive format, including the preparatory meetings of the Eurogroup, which I see as very positive. This will less be possible to discuss current proposals with our partners regarding the deepening of economic and monetary union. Being there and being able to give your opinion, that's what this is all about. I think we should want to be there. The rules of the so-called fiscal pact are addressed in particular to the euro area countries and other EU Member States can voluntarily join them. This is not what the Czech Republic is doing and will not do. The fiscal pact will therefore be fully binding for the Czech Republic only from the time of adoption of the euro. And, as the Minister said here, this government does not have the adoption of the euro in the next three years in its programming declarations. Ladies and gentlemen, let me sum up my speech. We do not accept any new obligations by accessing the fiscal pact at the moment, but we are given an important right - the right to be heard. And that, in my opinion, is what we should be watching. I therefore also support the rapid approach of the Czech Republic to the Treaty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u57	Thank you. With priority rights, President Farský. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the attitude of the mayors and independent clubs. We are pleased that the government has decided to bring this treaty to the Chamber of Deputies because we want Europe and the European Union as a territory experiencing unprecedented prosperity, where the economy is growing, as a territory that is also safe to continue to be a strong territory and territory that not only brings us jobs but also all the benefits stemming from the broad cooperation. It is so that it is a real interest of the Czech Republic to be in the European Union and to be at the table at which it decides if it decides in the European Union. And here, in that case, we volunteer to put ourselves in a position of one that is decided in style about us without us. We are not invited to the summits that follow up on these meetings just because we said we would not join this treaty. Paradoxically to a treaty that doesn't require any responsibilities, but only gives us greater rights. So I don't understand how those who want to talk about how Europe is against us and how it dictates us, so now they say, let Europe decide without us. Let us not take the power, the opportunity to act and represent the Czech Republic and those European negotiations. Let us not take it; let us not let it decide the future of the European Union without us. It is against the interest of the Czech Republic, against the interest of all of us. Therefore, as a club of Mayors and Independents, because we have in mind and it is our aim that the Czech Republic should continue to prosper in order to prosper in the European area, so we will clearly support the adoption of this Treaty. Since it is a Treaty on Stability, it is a Treaty on Power, it is a Treaty on the ground that one of the members of the European Union cannot weaken the European Union by its irresponsibleness. But if you read at least a little bit - she is short of this contract - you will read it, I think in Article 1 in paragraph. In addition to Article 14, only euro area countries are concerned. And if you read Article 14, you'll find that there's really nothing out of it. Only that, basically, that we get to the table. That it wouldn't be decided on us without us. Whoever wants to make decisions about us without us will vote against this treaty. Whoever wants us to be in these negotiations will support the adoption of this Treaty. And the mayors will support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u59	There. Have a good noon. And now, with the de facto remark of the Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala. Your two minutes, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u60	I will respond with my point of fact to the Minister's speech and to President Farský's speech. I'm glad that this debate is going on and that it's usually going on in a matter of fact. So in order to preserve the relevance of the debate, let me just remind you that the argument that we're gonna get to some meetings and we're gonna be at the table, so-called "he doesn't pay." The pact doesn't guarantee it - and we're not in any danger of not being at that table. According to the text of the Treaty, non-euro-paying States may attend the summits of the Eurogroup on competitiveness, changes in the overall arrangement of the euro area and the basic rules and at least once a year negotiations on specific issues relating to the implementation of the Stability Treaty and so on. I note that they can, and I also note that there is a practice of the European Union, which is already in place today - for example, the summits on competitiveness are convened in EU format 28. That's what needs to be said. So by accepting this pact, perhaps we can achieve some symbolic thing. In my opinion, we will achieve nothing, and this will certainly not improve our approach to the negotiations. Because when it comes to competitiveness, it happens the same way, and in other cases only those states can invite us. It is for the sake of completeness that we should actually conduct this debate in a factual way and not use arguments that then prove to be wrong or false.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u61	Thank you. And now, in the general debate, I will ask for Mr Jan Skopeček's speech and Mr Jiří Kobza will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u62	Thank you for the floor. Hello again. I've been waiting for my performance through the actual notes. I didn't want to use them to express my position on the fiscal pact. I will sum it up in a few arguments why I do not think that we should vote in favour of ratification of the fiscal pact today. The first reason is that we don't need a fiscal pact for anything. If we accept it and now if we don't accept it, we'll be responsible for our public budgets here at home. It doesn't make us any better or worse our domestic public finances or our management. The fiscal pact applies to euro area countries. At a time when the Czech Republic is not a member of the euro area, we do not need to accept it in any way. And if there is such pressure to accept it, it means that sometimes in the future you want to accept the euro. Because otherwise you wouldn't insist on it this way, or you wouldn't be making arguments like "we'll be at the table" here. We can already hear that in the integration process in the history of the Czech Republic for years. It always means the salami method to get to the deeper core, which means, in turn, some other partial power to transfer to the European Union. So we don't need a fiscal pact until we're in the euro. And those who are pushing for that adoption today are probably afraid to tell their voters the fullest, openly, but they want to accept the euro. The second argument why I think we should not vote for this fiscal pact is why. The fiscal pact arose as a response to the euro area debt crisis. It should have been an instrument to ensure a healthier management of eurozone members so that some irresponsible states would not threaten the stability of the euro area itself. If you look at the state of the public finances of the European Union's major economies at the time of signing the fiscal pact, and you look at their public finances today, you will find that the fiscal pact has failed. Dramatically, it has failed because, since its adoption, the public finances of those important economies, or a number of important eurozone economies, have deteriorated greatly. It's not just Greece. For example, look at Italy, Spain, how public finances developed there. Fiscal pact. What he intended to improve the public finances of euro area Member States to ensure greater stability for the euro area has failed, because the public finances of those important eurozone economies have deteriorated. Why do we have to approach something that just doesn't work? It doesn't make any sense. The sense of why some people are going to vote for a fiscal pact today is the only one. They want to symbolically express their belonging to the mainstream of integration, to an ever deeper, more uniform, more centralized Europe. They wish that the European Union should not simply stop in integration, so that further and further powers of economic policy move from home level to European level. I don't want it. I think that budgetary policy and monetary policy should be a domestic task. I'm also convinced that we're handling the homework well. That when I look at the management of a number of old European countries, when I look at the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, I am very pleased that we still have these powers at the level of the Czech Republic, at national level. Because both in fiscal policy and in monetary policy, we do it better than the old Member States of the European Union do. And our monetary policy is better and better for us than the policy of the European Central Bank. I firmly believe that we will be able to maintain both fiscal and monetary policy at home. Because, and euro advocates should also admit, the adoption of the euro does not just mean the exchange of banknotes in our wallets and the rewriting of our CZK-to-euro account, but it means that we will lose sovereignty in the monetary area, that monetary policy will not be made by the Czech National Bank on conditions tailored to the Czech Republic, for the Czech economy, but we will have to adopt the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, which will have to be tailored not only to the conditions of the Czech Republic, but also to the conditions of the aforementioned Italy, the Greece and other Member States of the European Union. So you, who want to support the fiscal pact today, apply to this policy, refuse to do these basic economic policies at home and want to transfer them to European level. Well, at least admit it and don't make people look like fools. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u63	There. That was Mr Skopeček and Mrs Helena Langšádlová's point of fact. Please, Madame, you'll have two minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u64	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President, Mr Skopečka, you have described here, I think, what is a little bit of a problem because you are saying: our fiscal and nominal policy is fine. You said it should continue to be up to us, which is why we should never enter the euro area. I myself think that even after resolving the problems facing the euro area, we do. But even from what you said, our companies are extremely linked to the eurozone. We export to the euro area. It is in our life's interest that the euro area should be in good shape, because regardless of whether we are members or not, the economic situation in the euro area will affect our companies, our employment, our economic growth. And that's the problem. It says "we do it well and we don't care how others do it, and it's not in our interest that we need to supervise Italy's responsible fiscal policy," I just don't think it's a wise and responsible approach, because if even the Italy that has problems today, the whole eurozone will be in trouble, so sooner or later it will reflect on the situation of our businesses, as well as the situation in employment, etc. So to say, it's enough for us to do our homework... And I really agree that there is a good fiscal, monetary policy here. But it is not possible to view it so that what is happening around us, what is happening in the euro area, does not concern us or does not interest us. It concerns us, and it should definitely interest us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u65	Time. Thank you. I have two applications for factual notes. First Mr Skopeček and Mr Mikuláš Peksa will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u66	Thank you. I'll respond to my previous speaker. I'm gonna do it again. The Czech Republic and its economy are historically dominantly dependent on euro area markets. The vast majority of our exports go to the eurozone. And despite the fact that, unlike other countries, we have the Czech koruna, yet every year, except for the period of crisis, our exports to the countries of the European Union every year, are growing to the countries of the euro area. This is proof that the Czech koruna economy does not interfere with the Czech koruna exporters. I am able to accept the euro when discussing the common European currency, that it also has its positive aspects. The positive side is lower transaction costs for our exporters, but the costs I was talking about in terms of the loss of monetary policy are infinitely greater than the partial benefit to exporters who are handling it. Look at the numbers. Each year we export to the European Union bigger, with the Czech crown. I agree with you that we cannot be indifferent to how the eurozone works, how it is doing, but if you really mean it to the euro area, then you will be the first to say that Greece should be out of it, that Spain should be out of it, and you should work to make the eurozone a group of countries that are economically similar to each other. But since the euro is not an economic project, because it is a political project, you will endlessly insist that those countries that are structurally different from countries like Germany, Holland, are kept there at the cost of doing worse for those people, and at the cost of paying the taxpayers from the northern wing of the eurozone to the responsiblely managed eurozone states. So if you really want the eurozone to work well for our exporters, say out loud that the eurozone has to change and that many countries that can't do it have to leave it. That would be fair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u67	Thank you, and then I have three requests for a performance, only two requests for factual comments. First, Mr Mikuláš Peksa and then Mr Jan Farský will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u68	I would just have a quick question for Mr Skopeček, through Mr President. You, my colleague, are an economist. I would like to ask you how much you think that macroeconomic data such as aggregate demand, aggregate supply in the Czech Republic depends on the economic and monetary policy of the Czech Republic, and to what extent on the contrary on the overall economic policy of the European Union. Because I'm convinced that she essentially defines it the same way. So this argument about sovereignty is largely useless. I'm letting space answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u69	Thank you and I will now ask for Mr Farský's speech on a point of fact and Mr Jan Skopeček will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u70	Thank you. I would like to respond to Mr Skopeček, and I would like to say that I mind moving this debate. Please, we are not voting on the adoption of the euro. And you, through Mr President, have created a chimera of struggle with the adoption of the euro over this treaty and now you are fighting it. But it's a fight that doesn't belong to this. It's clearly written there, and whoever read the contract in a run-by way has certainly come to the conclusion that it isn't. Moreover, the treaty clearly states that it is binding, except for Article 14, only for countries already in the euro area. This is not about joining the euro area. So please stop fighting the euro here, because it is not a question of this regulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u71	I will ask for Mr Jan Skopeček's speech on a factual basis. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u72	First of all, to your previous speaker. I responded to Mrs Langšádlová, who spoke about the Czech Republic's links with the euro area, the euro etc. That wasn't my fantasy, but you better turn to her than me. That's the first answer. The answer to a colleague from the Committee on European Affairs, who asked how sovereign our monetary policy is. To a large extent, it's sovereign. Of course, he can't do what he wants. They have to look at other markets. Of course, the euro area and monetary policy of the euro area are affected, and they must include this in their decision-making. But let me give you a practical example. Look at the way the Czech National Bank reacted after 2008 after the financial crisis. She was one of the first central banks to respond by relaxing monetary policy, which meant that in the first months and in the first period since the start of the crisis, we had one of the lowest. When you look at our exchange rate, which is flexible because we have our own crown, it weakened in 2008, which meant that our exporters' decline was much smaller than the decline in the exporters in the countries that paid the euro, because it was the balancing mechanism in the form of our flexible exchange rate, which we would have missed if we had adopted the euro, it simply worked and helped our exporters. When you look at the current form of setting interest rates, the current form of monetary policy, is indeed different from that of the European Central Bank, and our current monetary policy is certainly more advantageous for us than what the European Central Bank is doing, including quantitative easing. To sum up the answer. Yes, our autonomous monetary policy paid us a lot, it paid us a lot after 2008, when it made us lose less thanks to the economic crisis. [[caused by a crisis?]] The fact that we then complicated our economic policy and prolonged the crisis is true, but in those first stages, monetary policy has helped us incredibly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u73	That was Mr Skopeček, and now we have three factual points. First, Mr Václav Klaus Jr., Mr Peksa will be prepared and Mr Farský will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u74	Just briefly. Every vote is actually an election. And when you're campaigning, of course, it's wise to address undecided voters. So I also do not wish to address Mr Munzar or Mr Benešík from the other side, but I would like to turn to the undecided voters on this issue, the largest parliamentary club. And just please compare Mr Skopeček's expert, factual, national and consistent speech on this issue to the policymaking and other such outbursts of pan-European ideology, by which some other speakers here enrich you. That's just what I'd like, as undecided, to ask you to consider, because I know that many of you are conservative, normal, healthy people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u75	Thank you. Now, therefore, Mr Mikuláš Peksa, Mr Jan Farskýý and then Mr Ferjenčík will prepare for factual remarks. Please, you have the floor. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u76	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to clarify, through Mr President, the question I asked Mr Skopečka, because it was not clear. I wanted to ask how the Czech economic and monetary policy has an impact on economic developments in the Czech Republic, versus what effect the European overall one has. I am convinced that this economic development in our country, from about three quarters or four fifths, determines basically what is happening in European politics. Ergo has a point in talking to her because we just can't figure this out ourselves. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u77	Thank you. I will now ask for Mr Farský speech and Mr Ferjenčík will prepare himself. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u78	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to add to my colleague, President Petr Fial, who said that we did not, through Mr President, that this does not compromise us in any way in our participation. According to the reference report on this law, the Czech Republic was not entitled to participate in the eurozone summits due to its non-Participation in the Treaty, which has long seemed disadvantageous. I see it exactly the same way. Today's approval of this treaty will provide us with this ticket to the eurozone summits. Without making commitments, we can be at the table at which the future of the eurozone is decided and thus the future and prosperity of the Czech Republic. The approval of this Treaty is clearly beneficial for the Czech Republic from this point of view and we will therefore support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u79	Well, thank you. I will now ask for Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's speech. Your two minutes. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u80	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond briefly to my colleague Klaus. You, through Mr President, do not address undecided voters. You systematically address SPD voters. You're doing pretty well. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Unfortunately, sometimes you make it up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u81	That was Mr. Ferjenčík. And now, with Mr Jan Skopeček in fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u82	Once again, the response to Mr Peksa. Of course, the Czech economy is affected by what is happening beyond its borders. Especially the Czech Republic, where the share of exports of gross domestic product to euro area countries is actually record-breaking throughout the world. This means, of course, that the Czech Republic, including Czech companies and Czech exporters, will take it away at a time when the eurozone is not going to succeed due to bad policy of the European Central Bank. But the fact that at such a time we will have an autonomous monetary policy that can help these exporters with, for example, cheaper money, more relaxed monetary policy, is certainly a good patch or good motivation, a good incentive for our exporters, our companies, to do better or less worse than if we did not have such power. That is quite obvious. The moment we lose her, we will bear the full consequences of what is happening around us. Until we have the instruments of monetary and fiscal policy in our hands, at least we can do something about it within the limits of course. And I do not want to lose the tools that we can do something by which we can help both Czech companies and Czech households at a certain stage of the business cycle. By the time we give up this monetary policy instrument and fiscal policy, we will only accept behavior and accept the consequences of others' behavior. And I want to be able to influence the economic cycle in the Czech Republic - or not influence it. As a liberal, I would like the state to intervene as little as possible. But when it's needed, when the economy's in recession, it has the tools. By adopting the euro, we will stop having it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u83	Thank you. And now with the de facto Mr. Mikuláš Peksa. And Mr Tomáš Martínek will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u84	Thank you. I would just like to respond quickly through Mr President to Mr Skopeček. I respect your attitude. But then we simply differ conceptually politically, because I consider it more important to speak to the way in which this European policy is shaped and to try to prevent these problems. You, as I understand it, want to have tools to solve problems that result in failure if any failure comes. I think they're just opposite approaches, and I don't think there's any point in us arguing about it or arguing about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u85	Well, thank you. And now, with a point of fact, I will request Mr Tomáš Martínek's speech and prepare for Mr Jan Skopeček's de facto Member. Please, Ambassador, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u86	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to sum up the debate that we are having here for nothing, about adopting the euro, while we are not voting on the adoption of the euro at all. Let's talk about what we're really voting on. We are voting on the adoption of a fiscal pact that has what positives and what negatives if we vote in favour. Positives. Participation in summits. It won't be about us, without us. We will not be treated by our partners as black sheep, who are the only ones unable to sign a contract that de facto means nothing negative to us. Thirdly, the government will be motivated to draw up a budget with a low deficit or even a balanced one, thereby improving the investor's view; and theoretically lower interest rate in lending money to the State. I don't really see any negatives. When I heard all the negatives that fell, it was about adopting the euro. And that's really not what we're talking about today, and that's not what we're discussing today, and we're not going to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u87	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Jan Skopeček to the facts. And the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club will be prepared for the de facto. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u88	I respect Mr Peksa's position in preventing these problems in the euro area. And I would just give him consideration if one governor, who will represent the Czech Republic in the body of other many governors of all euro area members, has the strength to change the European Central Bank's policy to the conditions tailored to the Czech Republic, which we have today because we have a separate monetary policy. That's one thing. But the other thing. Even if it happens to have the strength and ability to convince the vast majority of the other governors to implement monetary policy on the terms of the Czech Republic, it will not deal with one basic thing anyway, namely that the euro area was created from structurally different, structurally different economies, which cannot normally operate together under one common monetary policy. This structural defect, which has been in the euro area since its very beginning, cannot be solved by any more ingenious governor. We will only pay the costs and we will save the eurozone to stay with it, because structurally it is simply made up of non-similar economies and it is not possible for it to function well without huge costs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u89	Thank you. And now Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Prime Minister, you have two minutes. And Mr. Jan Zahradník will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u90	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to the positives presented by Mr Martínek. If I'm going to interpel this right, the three positives that he's given here. One. It won't be about us without us or behind closed doors. I already said that in my first performance. It's fiction. There's no such thing. Those European countries, Member States which are not part of the Schengen area, are without them? Are they behind closed doors? Euro. I could also give other groups of states, some of which are associated on some issues, and some of them are not. So it's not a positive thing. It's perfectly normal. Two. We're not gonna be black sheep. We won't be the last. However, we should strongly reject this as the Chamber of Deputies. If all signatories to this pact, who pay the euro, followed the rules of this pact, you might be right. They're gonna tell us about public budgets? Ital, Francouz, Řek? Look at their results! What changed after they signed the ceremony, with photos, family photos. Everything. They shake hands after the annual summit. Did they get better or worse? Read the Minister's reply or a written interview, and don't quote it here. How did the European Commission intervene against those sinners, those black sheep who did not meet the obligations they had signed? Nothing! So the argument doesn't apply either. And the third. To sign the introduction and conclusion of the pact is to motivate the Czech Government to present good budgets? It's 980 words, sort of. I counted once. Well, come here... And let's quote what we're actually signing, and where you can find any motivation, positive or negative, it doesn't matter. It's an introduction and a conclusion. We don't approve of the body.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u91	There. That was Zbyněk Stanjura. Mr Jan Zahradník and Mr Lubomír Zaorálek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u92	Mr Vice-President, this debate reminds me of a debate that we had here about two years ago, when we discussed the ratification of the Paris Agreement. At that time, one of the arguments was that our representatives, when it comes to climate issues, had to sit in the lobby somewhere, could not sit at the negotiating table, and we must allow them to ratify the agreement. There was also talk about the fact that some of the already valid signatories to the agreement did not fulfil their obligations. And they said it wouldn't burden us at all, that our new obligations wouldn't result from it. The opposite is true. For example, the European Commission will already burden our car manufacturers with the obligation to reduce emissions by 35 percent by 2030. Meanwhile, producers in Asia, China and India do not worry about such obligations. We intend to commit ourselves to removing small plastics from our lives, different straws and cups, while 90 percent of plastic pollution comes from rivers in Asia and Africa that do not deal with such issues at all. Thus, as I was against the ratification of the Paris Agreement, which has committed us to something for a hundred years, and you have no money in the draft budget for the obligations arising from it - as I was against the Paris Agreement, I will also be against this fiscal pact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u93	Thank you and now Mr Lubomír Zaorálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u94	Thank you. Colleagues, I figured I wasn't gonna get a proper gig, so I signed up like this. Look, when it comes to economic debate, economic conviction, I'm putting it aside now. I could also say that the autopilot economy does not suit me. But this is a step that is strictly diplomatic. And I believe it's very important. In Europe, you have politicians who are willing to say today: Let this Europe be divided, those who do not want, we will leave them sideways. And then you have politicians who agree with us that we need to keep this project inclusive and give everyone a chance to join. Here to show that we want to be involved in the fact that we care about how the eurozone will continue to evolve is of great importance to me. And it has practical implications. It may be that those who want to essentially create Europe as multi-speed as well as in the economic area will win. This will mean that the financial flows, the financial flows will start flowing by passing us and we will move on to the Balkans. And at that point, we must be very interested. So this diplomatic step can be of great practical political importance. Who does not understand, does not understand Europe's political reality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u95	This was Mr Zaorálek and now Zbyněk Stanjura for a factual remark and the Vice-President of the House Petr Fiala will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u96	Talk silver, keep your mouth shut, honey. Some of us could follow that. Mr Zaorálek, through Mr President, do you think that your speeches, your repeated speeches on our participation in missions improve the diplomatic position of the Czech Republic and respect for our allies, or not? That you of all people will train us about what is diplomatically appropriate and not for the Czech Republic, that is really extremely brave these days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u97	Thank you. And now Petr Fiala. Please, Vice-President, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u98	I respond to Mr Zaorálek's speech, and I must say that it is those who are pushing us to sign the fiscal pact that do not understand Europe's political reality. These are precisely the documents that lead to more and more citizens of Europe losing confidence in the European Union and that the European Union-based cooperation project is at risk. Not by some eurosceptics in the Czech Republic, but by the way the European Union is progressing and what it is doing. So we proceed to a fiscal pact, we apply to some principles that those states that are already there don't respect at all, and they laugh at the others in the eyes. Look what Italy is doing today. Isn't Italy an example of a state that breaks down cooperation and all that is going on in Europe? It is really us, because we do not want to sign up for this toothless treaty, which is the only meaning - and let us face it, it is the only meaning, it is a symbolic way to adopt the euro. That's all it is. And if you listen well to Minister Schillerová, Minister Petříček, all the others who defend it, you will come to the very same conclusion. The adoption of this Treaty is of single importance to the Czech Republic, and that is that it creates a way for us to adopt the euro. That's all we can do with this treaty. And symbolically reporting to something that doesn't work the same way, and saying that if we don't, we are the ones who are breaking up Europe, it's just self-destructive, it's wrong, it's an unrealistic European policy, and it's a European policy that, if it's done in European countries, it's leading to one thing - it's threatening the European project! And since I care about the European project, I am opposed to joining this pact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u99	Thank you, and now we have three factual points. Mr Jan Skopeček, second Mr Lubomír Zaorálek, will be the first to speak. Now the order has shifted, and I have somehow lost my mind - so Mr Skopeček will, and Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. And now Mr. Zaorálek has just jumped in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u100	Thank you for the floor, I also want to respond through you, Mr President, to Mr Zaorálek. I simply refuse to do European politics as outlined by Mr Zaorálek. Politics in style: Everybody signed something, so we have to do it too. Although it doesn't work, although it doesn't make sense, although we don't need it because we don't pay the euro. But everyone did it so they wouldn't look at us badly, so we'll do it too. This has been the way European policy has worked for many years, especially through social democracy, and I think that this is wrong. Finally, let us understand that the European Union is a collapsing point of national interest, define the national interests and fight for them. Let's even compromise, let's make sacrifices sometimes to get something else. But the argument "all signed it, so we must too" is absolutely absurd, stupid and not in the interests of Czech citizens. The EU is a collapsing point of national interest. Let's try to define them and fight for them. Not here to sign something just because everyone signed it. That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u101	I will now ask Mr Václav Klaus Jr. to speak, and Mr Lubomír Zaorálek will prepare himself. So please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u102	I, too, am responding to Mr Zaorálek by means of you. And not diplomacy, but political reality, as you called it. The reality is that the vast majority of Czech citizens do not want to adopt the euro, and as far as your voters are concerned, it is even more marked. So I would prefer that politicians turn to their constituents and not to the one who pats them on the back, that they belong to a club or do not belong to a club, and that something can be pissed off somewhere in the foyer of a high-ranking European agent. Well, that's political realism for me again. But I admit, we can both be different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u103	Thank you. Now, Mr Lubomír Zaorálek to the de facto. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u104	I would just like to ask Mr Stanjura, through here, he has opened up a whole new topic. I'd love to talk to him about the subject, but I don't want to worry about it right now. I would like to tell him something about the fact that US President Donald Trump has appointed his agent for Afghanistan, who met the Taliban twice in Doha and is being withdrawn. They say the US President wants to withdraw, regardless of whether or not the deal with the Taliban will be made. I'd like to tell him something about 8,050 civilian casualties dead in Afghanistan this year. Hundreds of kids and stuff. There's no room for that. But just so you know, I'm interested in this debate, but not now, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u105	That was Lubomír Zaorálek. I do not have another factual one, so I will ask for a speech in Mr Jiří Kobza's general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u106	Thank you for the floor. Dear Members of the Government, Mr President, colleagues. The Minister, through Mr President, has, in a very factual and emotional manner and the ideology of devoid of facts, put forward both pro and cons with regard to the fiscal pact. There have been a lot of facts here about the fiscal pact being the preparation of a journey to the euro. We in the SPD are supporters of our own currency. We think that the crown gives us sufficient strength, and, after all, the economic results show this. When we compare the debt ratio of the euro area countries and our debt, our own currency also plays a role in this. Moreover, the basis of the SPD programme is that, in the case of decisions on the euro, we call for a referendum. [[12.40 hours]] The accession to the fiscal pact, if I understand this well, as I have read it, and given all the information that has been said here, will not allow us to participate in the discussions, because that is the maximum possible way for the Prime Minister to sit there and keep his mouth shut. So the contribution is really debatable. And since the fiscal pact is directly linked to the euro and the euro area, I think it would be right not to separate these two things and leave them as they are in the whole. I therefore give a procedural proposal to suspend this item until the accession of the Czech Republic to the euro, until approval by Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u107	Then I shall note your proposal, because it is the right of the Member to make a motion for a adjournment in the event of a hearing. If I understand this correctly, you are proposing a adjournment, so I should use precisely the wording of the Rules of Procedure, a adjournment until the euro is adopted. It's an interruption, I'm just saying that there's a continuance in the Rules of Procedure, so I'm saying a continuance so that it doesn't get protested. Now, then, Mr Petr Pávek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u108	Hello, thank you for your word. I would like, through Mr President, to ask Mr Faltýnek next time to see to it the better organisation of the points that we will be discussing, namely the order of those international treaties that we were supposed to approve today, so that, first of all, there are contracts that do not call for such a debate, and the treaty that could have been, at the end, enriched by this debate, so that we can have the vote behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-005-087.u109	Thank you. I would just like to clarify, because here was the question that it was a procedural proposal that was to be put to the vote immediately. However, it was not, I made the right decision, because there is a specific regime in the Rules of Procedure - after the end of the debate, there is also a vote on the proposal for a adjournment in the case of a contract. So I'm the one who said it right here. I don't have anyone else registered for the general debate here, so I'm gonna be quick to read my apologies because it's time for the 13th hour so we don't forget. Mr Petr Dolínek apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Mr Dominik Feri apologises between 1140 and 13.00, working reasons, and Mr Petr Staněk apologises between 14.30 and 19.00 for family reasons. So I will now end the general debate and ask whether there is an interest in the final words. Minister Alena Schillerová is not interested, Mr Jan Kubík is not interested. We will proceed to the vote. However, we will be the first to vote on the motion to adjourn, because then there would be no point in voting on the resolution that. I'll call the MPs back in the hall, sign you off on request, so please sign up again with your voting cards. [[After a while.]] I think we've stabilized the kvorum. I will repeat once again what we will be voting on. Mr Jiří Kobza suggested that we adjourn negotiations on this Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union until the adoption of the euro by the Czech Republic, if that is how I can formulate it. So we all know what we're voting on. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of adjournment, press the button, raise your hand. Whoever opposes the adjournment, press the button, raise your hand. Voting number 181, 152 Members signed in for 44, against 101. The motion to adjourn was denied. I'm sorry, one more apology. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes on 31. 10 to 2. 11th for medical reasons. And now we have two resolutions, but they are essentially in the same wording. So I propose that we vote on a resolution by the Foreign Committee, which is formulated a little more precisely. So I guess we all know what we're going to vote on. Basically, the Foreign Committee tells us that it agrees with access to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union. We will vote on whether we agree with the foreign committee's proposal. I'm opening the vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 182, 153 Members signed in for 106, versus 43. The resolution was adopted. [[A round of applause, especially from YES.]] I hereby conclude the discussion of this point. And we'll proceed to the next point. This is about
