ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u1	25. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 247/1995 Coll., on the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic and on the amendment and addition of certain other laws, as amended /German press 103/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 I welcome Senator Miroslav Nenutil, who will also present the proposal. However, before I give him my word, I would like to state that this proposal was submitted to the first reading in accordance with Section 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2. However, I have at my disposal both the veto of two MPs - namely the Pirates and the Mayors' MP - and at the same time I have the veto of 52 members from the ANO Members' Club. This clearly means that we cannot discuss this proposal in accordance with § 90 para. 2 and we will proceed in the standard way. Before I give the floor to the senator, I remind you that we have received the Government's position as House Press 103/1. We are now familiar with all the formalities and, please, the Senator, did not Nenutil him to present the proposal. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Members of Parliament, Members of the Government, the proposal tabled is quite brief, almost one-word, but, in the Senate's view, of fundamental importance. It has to adjust the elections to the Senate so that the difference between the first and second round is not only a week, but weeks two, respectively. 13 days. What does the Senate have to do with this? If we look at the results or participation in the first and second rounds, then in the last at least six parliamentary periods or elections, participation in the second round was almost half of the participation in the first round. We were wondering what led to it. Of course, someone can say simply: not interested in people's choices, not interested in people's Senate. However, we believe that most people have not yet dealt with this exceptional two-way election; rather, they confuse this election with elections to municipal councils, where they are clearly one-wheeled as well as to the Chamber of Deputies. You might argue that presidential elections are also two-way. There's also a difference of two weeks. But the media campaign between the first and second round is so massive that only perhaps deaf or blind would leave the simple one without information about the existence of a second round. The fact that people are supposed to vote for the Senate in the second round, or that the awareness of it is small, I can demonstrate in my own example when I went to the campaign twice and for the first time and for the second time I heard, but we've already elected you once. That people should vote in the second round, that awareness is simply small. Our proposal allows people to get voting tickets to their homes during the second week in the same way as in the first round. In this way, we believe that citizens' general awareness of the existence of the second round will be improved, and therefore the number of voters participating in the second round will also increase. [[13.00 hours]] I told you the proposal was technically very simple. Basically, only one word changes and then the other two changes also appear in a relatively simple version. As you have been informed, the Senate's proposal has not been passed on to the House of Deputies to give its consent at first reading. And since the Senate was led by the will to create this law so that the autumn elections could take place this year, then I would like to consider whether you would not agree at least to shorten the time limit for committee discussions by 30 days. If this were to happen, then the legal limits should be fulfilled when Senate elections are expected to be announced around mid-July. Madame Members, I thank you for your attention so far and I will believe that the Senate proposal, which, by the way, has signed 47 senators and senators, which is a vast majority, will pay due attention. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u3	Thank you, Mr. Senator. Before we proceed, Mr Vít Rakušan also apologizes for the extraordinary meeting of the Foreign Committee from 13:30. Mr králíček apologizes from 13:30 to 14:00 for work reasons. Mr Mihola apologizes from 13:00 to 14:00. Mr Lipavský from 13.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. And due to a visit to the doctor, Mr Vyzula apologizes from 13:00 to the end of the day. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Strýček. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u4	Mr President, Mr Senator, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I wish you a good afternoon. As has already been said here, the proposed Senate bill provides for the following changes. This means that for the second round of elections to the Senate, voters receive ballots for mailboxes. However, contrary to the first round, where ballots are to be delivered no later than three days before the vote, before the elections, voters are to receive ballots no later than one day before the vote. Furthermore, as has been said, the distance between the first and the second wheels should be increased, i.e. from one week to two weeks. In cases of rare, such as: The death of a candidate, except for weeks three. The intention of the plaintiff is to hold elections to a third of the Senate according to the new rules in 2018. From this point on, I would like to stress that the government has opposed this bill. Part of the proposal, as has already been said, is to express consent at first reading under § 90 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which was rejected. The Organizing Committee has proposed the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Then I would like to join the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u5	Yes, yes, so you're applying for a debate. So I am opening up a general debate and I have a general debate here, so, Mr rapporteur, you have the opportunity to speak whenever you want. So I'm asking if you want to get off right away with priority rights and then or... Yes, you do as a newsletter, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u6	Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make some factual remarks in the debate, which are also based on my personal experience, because I too was a candidate for the Senate elections in 2016. I am therefore not convinced, personally, that this proposed regulation, especially the two-week gap, will give rise to a fundamental increase in interest in the Senate elections. Historically, especially in the second round, participation is very low, mainly because of the loss of interest of voters in the event that they do not advance to the second round of their candidate. On the contrary, I fear that if this deadline is extended to two weeks, many voters will forget that there were any elections at all. That's one of the reasons. So, in my opinion, this amendment will not affect any huge increase in participation in Senate elections. Furthermore, I take the Government's position that from the point of view of organising and preparing separate elections, the law is essentially very hard to implement, since it is not technically possible to deliver ballots for the second round directly to the voters in the proposed deadline, which is one day before the election day. Which is also very important, of course, not only for candidates, but for all political parties. For one thing, this will have an impact on public budgets, of course, this change, and it will also have an impact on the candidates themselves or those who will advance to the second round, because, of course, the extension of the campaign for two weeks will mean a pretty unbearable increase in funding that they will have to use in the next two weeks' campaign. Further, a bit of unsystematicness, as has already been said. The election of the President of the Republic is based on a similar principle as the election to the Senate, i.e. on two, but in the second round of the presidential elections, the ballots are actually delivered directly to the polls, whereas here it is proposed to be delivered to the mailboxes for the second round, which does not seem entirely systematic to me. And another reason to point out here is that the Senate is currently discussing the Senator Group's proposal for the introduction of a one-wheel election system, so that the proposed amendment might be approved for a very short period of time. So, following what has been said here, I propose that this bill be rejected at first reading. If this proposal of mine is not accepted, I am making a motion to re-establish the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u7	Thank you. So I note that Mr. Strýček has made a motion to return. So now we continue with the general... [[Member Uncle specifies from the point of view.]] Okay, well, we've got a rejection first, and if it doesn't pass, we're gonna give it back to the petitioner. We will continue with the general debate and I would like to ask for Mr Ferjenčík's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that there is a problem, that there is a very low electoral participation in the second round of the Senate elections, and that this also reduces the prestige of the entire institution. But actually, the rapporteur has quite taken it from my mouth - we are not sure that this is the right measure. It is far more reasonable for us to really talk about the choice for the Senate to be unicycle. We are fans of the Australian model, when voters rank candidates according to the order in which they prefer them, and then those who first receive support over 50 percent are elected. We can talk about these particular models. There is a possibility that all candidates would be in line, or that only three would have to line up, and the rest only if the elector wanted him not to be forced to vote for someone he doesn't want in the Senate. We held a conference in the premises of the Chamber of Deputies and had quite a large participation. Senators were there, too. I think that's the way we should go. We should talk about the parameters, talk about the exact model of the calculation. But I'm afraid those two weeks aren't gonna solve it. There are still a few problems that the rapporteur has not mentioned, in addition to the sharp increase in the cost of the second round, which would undoubtedly have occurred, and very practical things. [[13.10 hours]] At the moment, the tickets are not necessarily distributed by the Czech Post, only, but in many municipalities, mayors or municipalities are self-helping to distribute tickets to mailboxes, so we are actually adding to their duty. Then a problem that is not very common, but it is important to draw attention to it. Between the first and second rounds can occur e.g.. to resign the candidate or to some medical complications, other things. In such cases, the law is thinking about it today and a third ballot is being printed; If the other candidate wasn't running, people still have a choice between the first and the third. In case someone resigns, it is unclear which ballots should be distributed or if three sets of tickets are to be distributed, even if two candidates are to proceed. This would probably lead to even more confusion. So let's draw attention to this weakness. Indeed, it is not clear whether the declared objective of the proposal could be met and this would increase participation. Those 14 days really mean that it's actually going to be two weeks from those elections that usually have quite a lot of publicity, while the second round of Senate elections isn't going to have that kind of publicity. Today, Senate elections are usually held together with municipal or regional elections, only rarely held separately, and then the participation is mostly miserable even in the first round. But when the deadline is extended, I'm not sure it'll meet the declared target. So we join the motion to reject it and rather take the path of a one-wheeled vote, where we are opponents of the system, that becomes the senator of the most votes, but we want the preferential vote, which cancels the paradox, when two similar candidates are running, and they have 30 per cent of each vote to be defeated by a candidate who, for example, has 40 per cent of the vote that is defined against both of them. That is why we support a one-wheeled vote and a preferential vote, and we find it a better way than to unsystemically extend it by a week with all the problems that I and the rapporteur have mentioned. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u9	Thank you. We have another enrolled in the general debate, Mrs Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a 30-day reduction in committee discussions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u11	Yes, I'm registering your proposal. So now I have the last one entered into the general debate, Mr Grospič. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, I very carefully see the proposal tabled here, which came from the Senate, for a partial adjustment to the Senate elections. I do not think that this will solve the seriousness of this institution, nor will it in any way increase the participation of voters in these elections, which would enhance the credibility of this institution and also highlight the importance of these elections. However, I think that the proposal, which is somewhat controversial, has something to do with it, and to be objective, I think that the extension of that week's period to a 14-day period has its merits and has its practical logic, which also results from a number of demands that are made from a number of municipalities and cities, when it is quite logical and correct to argue that this week's time is too short to be able to handle some things responsibly. Yes, so far the Senate's existence has been managed, resolved, but this has brought about a number of practical problems. I think that if we were to move this proposal forward to second reading, then it would really want to consider the second part that is contained there, i.e. leave the distribution of tickets to households, but leave it as it is, for example. in the presidential election, that the tickets would still be issued in the polls, because I think that was a pragmatic measure, and the 14-day deadline itself is not enough to make this matter responsible in relation to, for example, various electoral complaints about the first round of Senate elections or the second attempts. But what I would like to say, I would warn you about here, although, of course, the proposal is legitimate and everyone has the right to lecture on what has been said here from the mouth of fellow pirát, i.e. Preferred to a one-wheel election to the Senate with the possibility of preference, perhaps two candidates, with the fact that, if one failed, there would actually be a preference for the other candidate, who would be more successful overall, because I think that would be an element that would also not contribute to the seriousness of this institution and in its consequences, the practical consequences would lead to an even smaller part of the electorate than it has been so far. So, unlike my previous speakers, I join in letting this proposal be released for second reading to discuss it. I am not a follower of shortening the time limit to discuss it, which I do not think we need to do, even within the proper time limits, so that this law can be followed, but I intercede for the proposal to be released for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u13	Thank you for the show. Now I'm going to read one apology. Mr Špičák apologizes for personal reasons from 13:45 pm to the end of the day. Now I have no one... I do. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u14	Thank you for the floor. I have the opposite opinion than the previous speaker. I think we should either reject it or go back to redoing it, because I consider it an illusory technical change to the rules to have the hope that voter participation will increase. We can increase electoral participation even now under the existing law, depending on when there will be a co-op with the other elections that are taking place simultaneously with the Senate. You know very well that in January there were additional elections to the Senate, when the first round was separately and the second round was simultaneously with the presidential election, and the second round was 60 percent. And it wasn't that people at home had ballots or didn't. I don't know who can influence the President, but if we tried this year's election, for the first time, the first round would be before the municipal elections and the second round, parallel to the municipal elections, I assume that the average turnout in the second round would be at least 50 percent higher than usual than the other way around. Of course, then, the objection may be that the first round suffered from lower electoral participation, but that is already the tax on the two-way system. That's the first objection. So I don't think it's worth a try, for example. This year, the second round and the municipal elections are going together, and I assume that this participation could, on average, be higher than 30 per cent. When we remember the average attendance in the regional elections, for example, it is not nearly as high as in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, and no one is proposing a change in the electoral system. Not to mention the elections to the European Parliament, which are unicycles, and that participation is often even lower than in the Senate elections. The second reason for rejecting it or returning it is a relatively short time limit until this year's Senate elections. We'll deal with this next week, there's another proposal, the Ministry of the Interior, virtually. a government that, in my opinion, rejected the Senate correctly, and that was also one of the reasons why I don't think there are rules to change this late. I also say in advance for the senator that our club will support the version of the electoral law sent to us by the Senate seems reasonable to us, but at the same time I say that we do not consider this proposal to be reasonable for these two basic reasons that it does not bring any real hope of increasing the electoral participation and, secondly, it is too late for the Senate elections in less than six months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u15	Thank you. I am not registering any interest in the speech, which is why I am ending this general debate. I ask whether both the rapporteur and the appellant are interested in final words. Mr. Senator Nenutil is interested in the final word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madame Members, thank you for the varied debate. Allow me a few responses to individual performances. It was correct to say that the presidential elections are two-way, and tickets are not being distributed there either. Our point is that the entire electoral system will somehow unite so that it is the easiest thing for a citizen of the electorate. If both elections are going to be two-way and whether or not they are going to be giving tickets in the second round, in my opinion - now I speak privately as Senator Nenutil - one thing, but it should not be different for citizens to do their best. Then there was the argument that voters would forget it was the second round after the first round in the last two weeks. If it's based on the Senate proposal, they won't forget because they'll get the tickets home. The argument that it is technically impossible, I will say it simply, it was only in our opinion the excuse of the Ministry of the Interior, because it can be printed out. There have been concerns about other costs. Yes, in order, it is the millions that would be needed to print the tickets and the spare ones. The costs of candidates for the Senate - I think it's a matter for each candidate. There was the correct information that one electoral law had already been discussed in the Senate. Thank you, Mr Stanjur, for knowing what awaits you. The second law is also prepared there, which should address the one-wheel election to the Senate, but I must say that neither of the three laws contradict each other. The existence of these three proposals indicates the need and the will to do something about the Senate elections. There was a concern that the post office or mayor wasn't enough to deliver tickets in the second round. You're definitely here representatives from municipal or municipal councils, so you know, in a village where the mayor knows all his citizens right away, that's where he usually gets the word out in one morning. In the city, like the eight thousand Silver, where I come from, to be specific, it's being delivered by city officials. I don't think that's a problem, and it wouldn't be more expensive either. Useless tickets for the resignation of one of the candidates - the current wording of the law is that if there is a change, and it doesn't matter if it is in municipal elections, in elections to the Chamber of Deputies, new tickets are not printed, but the change will be noted in the polling rooms and the electoral commission will draw attention to all voters. It was also said that the Senate wanted to improve its credibility somehow with this change. I don't think this was the Senate's goal, because the Senate has proven its credibility many times. Nevertheless, I would ask you to put this proposal into second reading, because it is open to debate, so it is open to change. And discussing and debating is democratic. I also appreciate Mr Stanjura's constructive proposal to join the second round with some other elections. In the fall it could be with elections to municipal councils. But there, as you all probably know, that term depends on one person, in this case the President of the Republic. And Parliament only affects the President's decision-making in this regard by the time he has to declare elections, not by a deadline. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate and, despite a number of critical speeches, I ask you to put this proposal into the next debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u17	Thank you, Counselor. I ask if the rapporteur is also interested in the final word. He doesn't. I propose that we proceed to the vote on the proposals tabled. [[It's gonging.]] I'll call the MPs because the debate was a little bit longer. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you off, please sign in with my voting cards again. I have two suggestions here. We will vote on them in this order. Excuse me? Is your card not working? Maybe you didn't check yourself out. You need to check out with you, Mr. Ambassador, and then it'll work out for you. You're going in there, all right. The first is a motion to dismiss, and the second proposal will be to return. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of rejecting the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. [[Mr. Richter's card isn't working.]] Excuse me? Is your card not working? Okay. I declare this vote confusing. I'll check you out again. Please sign up again with your voting cards. I'll wait until the kvorum is settled. [[Ambassador Richter is going to exchange his card.]] Ambassador Richter will vote with replacement card number 18. Sorry for the delay, but I needed to check everything so the information was correct. We shall now proceed to the vote. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. It is a motion to reject the proposal. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of rejecting the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Whoever opposes the rejection of the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 66, enlisted 132 Members, for 106, versus 11, abstained 15. The motion to dismiss has been accepted. This concludes the discussion of this press. I have Mr. Bartošek's request for a performance. No, so I'll erase it, there was a request for a factual remark. Thank you, Senator, and I'm closing this press. [[13.30 hours]] We now have a Senate Bill on the agenda amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on conditions for obtaining competence for the exercise of non-medical health professions and for carrying out activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws, as amended, House printing 105, first reading. We received the Government's position as House Press 105/1. However, I have a note here that the senators are today, Friday 13. 4., apologize. This means that it is not possible to discuss this press because we do not have the appellants present. So I'm just saying formally that we're going to put him at the end of the first reading block. So we're going to move this point to the end of the first reading block. We will proceed to the next proposal, it is item number 28 and it is the proposal of Members... Sorry. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On behalf of the club YES, we take a break at the club meeting for half an hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-009-025.u19	So, on the proposal of Mr. Roman Kubíček's ANO MP, I hereby terminate, given that we arrive at 14 o'clock, today's meeting day and interrupt the meeting by Tuesday 17. Four in 14 hours. Have a nice weekend.
