ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u1	112. Government bill amending Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and methods of its resolution (Insolvency Act), as amended /German press 71/ - Third reading I ask that the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Constitutional Committee, Mr Jan Chvojka, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 71/6, which was delivered on 9 October 2018. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 71/7. I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the opening of the debate. [[Yes.]] I'm gonna ask you all to stay calm in the hall. Please transfer any discussions to the foyer. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the third reading of the bill, which aims to address the problem of excessive debt up to the debt of a significant part of the citizens of the Czech Republic. The aim is therefore to address the issue of the so-called debt trap, where we strive to return those citizens who are in this debt trap as soon as possible after fulfilling their obligations within the limits of their capabilities and capabilities to the standard social and economic environment. To engage in the standard functioning of the company. At the same time, I say that, at second reading, the Chamber of Deputies was taken as the basis for the amendment referred to in point A, adopted by the Constitutional Legal Committee, which reflects a very long detailed and correct discussion that we had on this proposal, whether on the basis of the Constitutional Legal Committee or other bodies of the Chamber of Deputies, but also with the professional public, including judges, who decide in insolvency matters, including the insolvency administrators themselves. Thank you very much for this debate, and I firmly believe that the proposal, as it is presented, will help solve this problem. At the same time, I submit that we will support a number of amendments tabled by the petitioner, particularly those of the constitutionally-legal committee, but also some others that I believe contribute to improving the legislation. Thank you all so much for the debate on this legislation, for the time spent on it, and I am very much asking for the support of this proposal even in the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u3	Thank you, Minister. I am opening the debate, which is the first to which the rapporteur, Mr Jan Chvojka, has the priority right on this point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u4	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to speak very briefly as rapporteur for this press. But not only as a rapporteur, but also as an MP, a lawyer and a person who, of course, cares about the well-being and fate of the Czech Republic and the people who have fallen into the debt trap. I admit that - and I've said it in several different forums, and there's been a lot of these forums this year, and she's been paying attention to the insolvency law. The debate on this amendment was very long, very detailed, broad and comprehensive. And I'm happy for her. I must admit that I consider the debt institution that was adopted in 2006 precisely in this insolvency law No. 182/2006 Sb. with effect from 1 January 2008, for one of the best things that took place here after the revolution and which has been approved. It must be said that this institution of debt relief, or, as the media sometimes say wrongly, personal bankruptcy, has helped tens of thousands of people who have been trapped in debt. And until the insolvency law was passed in 2006, sometimes people just didn't get out of the debt trap and couldn't get out because they were being executed, for example, for the rest of their lives. He just wasn't an institute to help them get out of the debt trap. Unfortunately, in those ten years, since the law is effective, it has proved that although the law has helped, as I said, tens of thousands of people, there are still people in the Czech Republic who could not be helped by this law because those people have failed to fulfil the condition, that is, if I want to enter into debt relief today, I have to prove that for the next five years I have to pay at least 30% of my liabilities. This means that, unfortunately, over the years of the law's effectiveness, single mothers, for example, could not simply prove themselves on the basis of their income that they would pay 30 percent of their debts. Or, for example, lone seniors or seniors who, logically, could not pay at least 30 percent of their debts, because their pension is so average that they simply are unable to pay their debts. On the other hand, it must be said that in the fact that many people were in a debt trap, our state, which allowed terrible atrocities on the ground of various consumer loans, non-bank loans, and other such institutions at least until 2016, had a significant share in the debt of a thousand crowns, when the debt suddenly rose to 50 grand, or when the debt rose to 200 grand from the debt. Such things have been happening, since 2017, they have been happening less. But it was a mistake of the state that it did not regulate this segment of the market as it should be regulated and as it is regulated west of us. [[10.00 hours]] So it turned out that the insolvency law needs to be amended if we want to get the other tens of thousands of people trapped in debt out of the debt trap. These are, as I have already mentioned, for example, single mothers, disabled pensioners, and others. Therefore, an amendment to the insolvency law was submitted. Like I said in the beginning, it's been talked about for a very long time. koneckonců all, it originally came to the Chamber of Deputies during the previous term of office of the Chamber of Deputies, when Robert Pelikán was Minister of Justice, and I signed the amendment as President of the Legislative Council of the Government. Unfortunately, it was not possible to discuss the amendment at the end of the House's term of office, and it was therefore put back on the floor of this Chamber of Deputies. The discussion was extensive, rich, broad. koneckonců all, this has also been reflected in the number of amendments that have been discussed, whether on the floor of the subcommittee on insolvency, execution, or on the ground of the constitutionally-legal committee, and, after all, about twenty, we will be voting today. It must be said that there are some amendments. Some try to keep the leitmotiv of the law, virtually. amendments to the law. This leitmotiv for me is a second chance for more people, a chance for more people to get out of personal bankruptcy, out of debt, out of debt, out of debt trap. Some are trying even harder to open up that network of people who get into that debt trap. To some extent, some amendments seek to rationalize the two-party ratio, because it is about two sides, one side is creditors, the other side is debtors, everyone else is basically just looking at the process as procedural entities under the insolvency law. But I think, whether it is adopted almost, not all of them, but whatever amendment is adopted, it will not destroy the leitmotif of the amendment that should be in it: let us allow and help more people to get out of the debt trap and undergo debt relief. Therefore, I am very much asking that we finally approve the insolvency law today. It's been discussed for almost a year, which is a very long time. I'm curious when we approve him, how the Senate will stand up to him. I can't guess because, of course, political conditions have changed a little after the election. It is possible that we will see the law or we will see it again if the Senate returns it with any comments. But please, let us act in such a way that this law, this important amendment, is adopted ideally at the latest in the spring of next year. in order to be effective and to comply with the relationship between creditors and debtors overdue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the speech in the debate. I have here a factual remark from my colleague Pavel Blažek. Mr. Dominik Feri will be ready. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u6	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I have to always respond to those, now I'm sorry, left-wing arguments that have been made here, and they sound over and over again that describe the state in the past as it wasn't, and most importantly they describe our citizens as some fools. First of all, it is said that there was some policy of the state that allowed, frankly, the interest of the country and so on. It wasn't like the state was ordering anyone to borrow, so the interest will always be 100 percent, 150 percent, etc., and I'm far from defending some loan shark loans. But it's not like the state is ordering it, as it almost shows. And the other thing. Those people weren't stupid back then. Yes, there were x citizens who borrowed this stupid, but the vast majority of citizens, and that is clearly visible from those numbers, either they didn't borrow at all, or they borrowed at normal interest, or they even borrowed at those, as was said, from the interest of the animals, but they paid off their debts. That means, I'd like to ask that the description of the past isn't completely left-wing, because we haven't lived in that past. And since that state has begun to regulate some things correctly, that is, of course, true. But again, the vast majority of people weren't stupid, they didn't succumb to these practices, and they even paid off their debts. We are talking about certain parts of the citizens who have succumbed. And I reject such rhetoric that just because they didn't read the contract or saw it wrong or something, I'm telling you, and the vast majority would tell you, they knew what they were getting into, and they knew what interest they were going to pay. They were just irresponsible and they thought, if we don't pay it, somehow it was, somehow it will be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u7	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mrs Valachová will also respond with a point of fact. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u8	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must respond to Pavel Blažek following his response to Jan Chvojka. I must add that the decision-making of courts over the past ten years, 15 years, without a doubt, even my previous speaker, has made it clear in many cases that practices that have been suffered in the context of lending, speculative treatment of claims without the debtor's knowledge, breach of the Labour Code, disregard of interest, which have subsequently been marked by courts against good manners, accessories repeatedly raised in a way that the law does not permit, once again the courts reject, against good manners, etc. etc. There would be a whole phone book of what the courts - our courts - would reject as practices against good manners. And this was very often due to the fact that the state just didn't have fair rules for consumers and borrowing money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u9	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Colleague Blažek will also respond with one more factual remark. And my colleague, Dominik Feri, is full of understanding. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u10	That's not what I'm fighting for, and I'm not defending it. But it wasn't that the state was forcing someone to enter into those obligations. And that takes two. One offers it, the immoral interest, and the other accepts it. You just can't talk me out of it. And so it was. Before any state said: whoever borrows must always pay so much and so much. And I'll repeat myself. The huge amount of contracts and debts that came out of it weren't like that at all, I mean typically rent debts and the like, when somebody didn't pay and maybe they're in that debt trap today. And let's not talk about all this being caused by some immoral interest and all that. But at least two sides were needed - the one lending and the one accepting the terms. And I'm just rejecting the left-wing rhetoric that the vast majority of people were so, I'd say, robbed by the bad guys that they didn't do anything to themselves. They should have read the contract, or, and that's my statement, part of it, and I insist, knowingly accepted these terms, and she knew in advance that she wasn't going to pay it back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u11	Thank you. And once again, Mrs Valachová, with a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u12	I agree with the previous speaker that there must be two for the contract. I guess every little kid will admit that. But it is precisely because there are two to be a contract, that creditors also have a responsibility. That's what the debt law is all about. It is a law that is modern, which countries in Europe and the world have, whether right-wing or left-wing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u13	Thank you. And we can continue the debate with Mr Dominik Feri's speech. A colleague, Marek, will prepare Výborný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, honourable members of the government and, Minister, this is, without a doubt, the most important law that we have been discussing so far this year, and I believe that we will be able to bring it down successfully today. At first reading, I quoted the words of the famous 18th - century English poet William Blackstone, who stated: "... so that the bankrupt becomes re-adjusted from debt and can become a useful member of society. " This means that he described the guiding principle that is controlled by insolvency proceedings or, therefore, the personal bankruptcy. [[10.10 hours]] It's been a long time since the first reading, and I've been making arrangements with Patrik Nacher that he's gonna recapitulate the whole place nicely. Much work has been done on him, and it is worth thanking for the job well done. This means that I would like to thank all of you, my fellow Members, who took part in the meetings of the Constitutional Legal Committee, who took part in the subcommittee meetings. I also thank his President. Furthermore, I would also like to thank the representatives of the procedural bodies and other groups who wanted to express themselves and wish to participate in the preparation of this fundamental legislation. And I would also like to thank the Minister and the Ministry's staff for the kindness shown and for the willingness I have to confess, it was not before, or when the law came here, it was not entirely common. On behalf of the TOP 09 Group, I would like to say that we will support those amendments that respect the principles contained in the insolvency law that are trying to speed up the process and to capacity up the system, as well as those amendments that seek to find a reasonable balance between the interests of debtors, the people in the debt trap who will want to get out of the trap and the fully legitimate interests of creditors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u15	I thank Mr Dominik Feri. The words will be taken by Mr Marek Výborný; a colleague Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u16	Dear Vice-President, Prime Minister, Dear Members of the Government, Minister, rapporteur, fellow Members, Dear Colleagues, I do not want to repeat here a long description of the whole amendment to the insolvency law. From my mouth, it sounded like the first, but mostly the second reading. Of course, I join my previous speaker's words. This thank-you is quite appropriate both for you Members, Members, who have been involved in this debate not only on the floor of the subcommittee, the committee, but also on various professional grémies, symposiums, round tables. The same is true of thanks to the Ministry of Justice, especially at the time of Minister Kněžínek, as well as the House legislation, which has also worked on it. Thanks. I would just like to say now about the situation before the third reading and what I personally consider KDU-ČSL to be important and what we will support. Yes, we have been saying this from the beginning, we are really concerned that a balanced amendment to the insolvency law should be adopted here, which, on the one hand, will not succumb to the extremely verifiable pressures and, on the other hand, will not only take into account the legitimate requirements of those debtors who really want to use the system in their favour. And that's what we're after. To get these people out of debt traps, as it has repeatedly been said here. We're applying, it's important. But at the same time, the debtors must also be aware of what is ultimately stated in one of those amendments that they must make every effort that can be demanded fairly. At this point, I would perhaps like to disprove or try to disprove what has been said in recent days and in public space, that the amendment will actually help nothing and that the debtors will still be in a state of uncertainty. And those judges are gonna act like some sort of oriental smuggler who, after five years, just get a bad night's sleep and say, "Oh, ower, sorry, you paid off 25 percent, but I feel like you could've done more." As truly as we consulted the Minister on these matters, as they were consulted on those judges who are engaged in insolvency law, i.e. With the Vice-Presidents of the Regional Courts, from those insolvency sections, it is clear from this, too, that the wording of the paragraph in question and the amendment of Mr Patrik Nacher, who agrees to nod his head, it is quite clear that the judge will judge only whether, over the course of the five years, there has happened to have been any dishonest intent. But I would point out that if he were there, he must be indicated by insolvency administrators who will have the responsibility to do so within the five years. But otherwise, the judge will say only on the basis of the information and reports he will have over the five years about the debtor's behaviour: Yes, you were in a situation where, for objective reasons, you were unable to repay at least 30 percent of the debt, the liabilities, but of course, we're going to debt you. So the haunting that may be here today, I don't really think it's appropriate. Finally, the Ministry of Justice and Justice will have sufficient time to prepare for decision-making in the framework of Section 412 and amendments to the insolvency law. Let me remind you of the two amendments that come from my pen. Respectfully, the first one is in common with a colleague, Petr Sadovský. This is the possibility of debt relief in the faster option, i.e. three years where the original proposal had an obligation to repay 50 per cent of the debt. I've said it here at second reading that I consider it extremely dangerous. It could be abused. If someone is able to pay back 50 percent in three years, they will probably be able to pay back substantially more in five years. I understand that, of course, we are looking for a balanced compromise. That's why I was glad we were able to agree on the 60 percent option. This means that if the debtor repays 60 per cent of its liabilities to creditors for three years, it will also be debt-in-debted. The 60% really is the result of some compromise agreement. I would also like to thank the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, the President is not here, but thank you for the fact that the Association of Regions clearly supported this also from their legislative commission. I believe that this proposal, which is part of the balance of the whole amendment, will receive your support. Furthermore, there is an amendment E1 which addresses the simplification of the insolvency draft. I would also like to ask for his support, particularly in the situation or context of what the agreement is also on, namely that we will support the amendment of my colleague Farský under letter J3. That means we're going to cancel the top line, which would still be a condition for entry into debt relief. This means that the door of the state's bounty will really be open to all debtors and not just to those who would be below the threshold of a thousand times the existential minimum. This proposal, as has been shown by the proceedings of the Constitutional Legal Committee, has general support across the members' clubs. That's right. And the moment we cancel this, I really think it's unnecessary for debtors to have to predict their income at the beginning at the next six, respectively. 12 months, just as it is unnecessary to document the income of the last twelve. In my proposal, it's enough to document revenue in the last six months and current revenue. That is what I think is justified in order for the insolvency administrator to be able to work with it so that it is in the proposal. But let's really simplify these things as processually as possible. And that is exactly what the E1 amendment is about. I say, this is also the result of the anticipated adoption of my colleague Farský's amendment. The simplification that's already happening. I am pleased that we have been able to agree on 25 or almost 30 amendments that will simplify the economy of the entire insolvency proceedings and ensure that the whole system will not collapse either in the administrators or in insolvency sections of the courts. I think this is very important, and I therefore ask for support. Ladies and gentlemen, so much for my comment. Thank you for being able to agree at the end and adopt an amendment to the insolvency law, which I really think is one of the first fundamental standards that we are discussing here, and will have a significant impact on our society. Because, on the one hand, it will help debtors from debt traps, on the other hand, of course, it will also help those creditors, because they will receive repayment of at least part of their liabilities. What is important will help the Czech Republic. We're just gonna clean up the gray zone and the economy, and we're gonna get these people into the system. This will, of course, also be reflected positively within the economic system of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your support for the sensible compromise amendments that are most. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u17	Thank you, my colleague, the Výborný. Mr Patrik Nacher has the floor now and Mr Jan Bauer will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this does not seem to be the case, but I think we have the most important law here in the last year. And the importance and complexity is that there's a whole series of players. There is a debtor, there is a creditor, there are insolvency administrators, insolvency judges, of course the state plays a role in this and then there are us, Members. I defined it because I've been around it for the last three quarters of the year that we Members are referees because this has no black and white solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u19	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking my colleagues for peace, and if you're discussing something else, please be in the lobby. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u20	I am very pleased that a standard has been established across all the parliamentary clubs, which I would call superpolitical. It's not a non-political or apolitical thing, it's purely political. And it's superpolitical because it's neither left nor right, we didn't split into liberals or conservatives here, not even opposition or coalition. Because when you look at the amendments, they really go across. And I'm very happy for that. What I'm not happy about is the Dalmatian one, that is. A black-and-white view of this thing, which then results in a variety of interpretations of what we're hoping to approve here today. On the one hand, the debtor is described as an innocent victim and a creditor as a dirty loan shark, and at the other pole, the debtor is an inexhaustible jerk when I say it like that, and the creditor is Mother Tereza. I think neither of this is true, and I am very pleased that the various parliamentary clubs and, in principle, all Members have avoided this black and white vision of the world. I've prepared - and I'm going to cut it short - examples of what's been going on here, some of the public displays of individual players who have something to say about it. So I'm going to make this very short, but just for the record. Filip Hanzlík, Deputy Executive Director of the Czech Banking Association - and all these will be answers to the basic question: Is it necessary to change the current conditions of debt relief? That's the basic question. And now we're not talking about how, but if at all. And those answers: Judging from the results of the extensive investigation into the effectiveness of debt relief in the last ten years, which was carried out in June this year and presented by InsolCentrum, the existing debt relief system works surprisingly well. More than half of the debts were paid in about 56% of the cases. - Again, more than half of the debt. We're still talking about some 30 percent limit here. In 56% the debtor paid more than half. And even in a quarter the debtors even paid the full amount, i.e. 100 percent. Just so we don't live here in some kind of Chimera. - However, the problem remains so called. historical debt. - That means the situation before December 1st. Reaction by Michal Žižlavský, member of the Board of Directors of the Czech Bar Association and Chairman of the Board of Experts of the Association of Insolvency Administrators on the same question: Dedebting consumers is an instrument that works in contrast to the bankruptcy of entrepreneurs and corporations. On average, creditors get more than 50 percent back in debt, and in bankruptcy they are only units of percent. - I'm cutting it short. Pavel Staněk, President of the Czech Association of Creditors: The current system works quite well in our opinion, there is generally no need to make any more fundamental changes in it, especially not changes that would give debtors a disproportionately easy way to get rid of their obligations in the future. - And then it's again that we're talking about a situation that needs to be dealt with that accumulated before the consumer credit law comes into force. And, on the other hand, Daniel Hůle, the human in distress analyst: There is clearly a need to change the conditions. In the long term, approximately 20 thousand are approved annually. insolvency, although we have approximately half a million people with three or more executions. International comparisons are clearly also being made. Around us and west of the Czech Republic is not the only country in the European Union that would not allow so-called. zero debt. They only have worse conditions in the Balkans. In other words, you can see beautifully here in people and in subjects that they represent, of course, everyone has a slightly different intention and a different point of view, as they differ enormously in the concept, whether to change anything at all and how to look at the issue. I am very glad that we, as Members, actually came up with a compromise proposal, with a proposal that if I borrowed - in restitution, it was said that it was a settlement or correction of some injustices, so here I would say that this is a settlement of the situation especially before 1. 12. 2016, since when does the new consumer credit law apply, and that this is helping maximize people, not all, by some revolutionary measure that would straighten up the wannabe injustice from the past and create new injustices. Here I will again quote from an e-mail from a lady who is a single mother. In other words, it is not only the creditor - the debtor, but there could be a problem for the debtor - the debtor in the event of a revolutionary change. The person who passes the insolvency this year is not part of the amendment to the law. In fact, he, too, should have the right to have the remainder of the debt forgiven after three years if he had paid 50 percent. - That's the version of three years 50. But a guy who's been going through insolvency this year or last year, if the law is passed, he doesn't have that option. Whoever comes into this next year has the option, and will even pay less than the one at the moment, would have to pay 50 or 60 percent after three years if the amendment passes, so paradoxically, it will apply even longer. Since the rules for people who wanted to go through insolvency have been much stricter so far, and now they're basically zero, it's unfair to us. That's one of the e-mails. Of course, everyone here can quote different e-mails. I've been giving it here as an example of not having a sharp incision by the creditor - the debtor, but we're also having some debate about how the debtors who are paying for it today, and they're doing everything for it today. I'd end it and follow up on Marek the Výborný, what interpretation should be. I think the interpretation is clear. We're talking about personal bankruptcy rather than debt. Personal bankruptcy, that's helping those debtors. Reboot. Second chance. And a second chance for those who want to be helped. For those who want to be helped, they don't all want that, and at the same time they are willing and able to do something about it, or else. even sacrifice something and at the same time do not harm the interests of serious creditors in parallel. Seriously, I'm just pointing out that somebody's not gonna take my word for it. I think the way the law is prepared, and there may be some details that can then show up in the future, so let's take another look at it - but I think the global way it's prepared, so I think this interpretation of it, i.e. let more people into the system, not block them with a 30% limit, succeeded. And I would like to thank all the Members involved in this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u21	I thank Mr Patrik Nacher. We will continue with the debate by speaking to Mr Jan Bauer, but I will read an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from 9 to 12 o'clock, Mr Petr Venhoda apologizes for today's meeting. Mr. Jan Bauer has the floor. My colleague Valachová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Prime Minister, my dear ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly commented on the problematic points of the novel discussed during the first and second readings. I have also asked some questions to the members of the government during this course, which I mostly have not been answered, so maybe some answers will be heard today, e.g. what costs will be associated with the introduction of new rules into insolvency proceedings, how much will it actually cost the state register, i.e. all taxpayers, i.e. All of us, stand. We also did not know whether the courts would be able to cope with the challenge of new insolvencys, which was a topic that was discussed both on the committee and on the relevant subcommittee. However, I will not repeat my concerns about the practical effects of this amendment, which has already been said many times, and I just want to comment specifically on two amendments. [[10.30 hours]] First of all, I would like to ask you to support the proposal under letter C and in the system under number 1375, which defines so-called. It's a dishonest plan. I would like to say that this is not an intervention in the concept of this law, which would in any way alter or modify its intention or contours. That is certainly not what this amendment is about. The proposal merely aims to specify what is to be regarded as a dishonest intention. In my view, the dishonest intention of the debtor is decisive for rejecting the application for the authorisation of debt relief and for any subsequent cancellation of the debt relief, without making it sufficiently clear from the present draft what behaviour can at least be regarded as dishonest by example. The plaintiffs themselves claim that the law is to bring legal certainty to debtors, and such a provision will certainly contribute to it in my opinion. I consider it desirable that the law contains at least a basic guide to assess whether or not the debtor behaves politely. The demonstration list contains, for example, the following points: the debtor did not disclose a significant part of his assets in the list of assets under insolvency proceedings, knowingly gave false information or conceal any of his income. And I would also like to say that this list is not random. I've been inspired, or this proposal draws on me. from an amendment to the Slovak Insolvency Act, which contains a similar demonstrative list. In addition, it also reflects the settled case-law on the assessment of the debtor's dishonest intent. In the latter case, allow me a few words on the amendment by Mr Jan Farský, who completely cancels the entry limit for the amount of debt that can be entered into insolvency. I would like to say that the government proposal itself has already set this threshold quite high above 2 miles. CZK, even though the average amount of debt, according to the explanatory report, is in the order of several hundred thousand crowns. A colleague of Jan Farský's proposal cancels this line completely and wants to allow the debtor to enter insolvency with any high debt. As a member of the Committee on Enforcement and Insolvency, I would like to point out that this proposal and its implications were not discussed there in contrast to other proposals, and therefore I was quite surprised by the agreed position with this proposal by the Constitutional Legal Committee. If the amendment has not yet been approved by moral hazard, I believe that this will certainly be the case if this proposal is adopted. I don't want to be quite steep, I understand motivation -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u23	I, my colleague, will interrupt you and ask the House for peace! I think it is necessary if you are having other discussions to lead them in the foyer and leave the speaker who speaks on the subject in the third reading so that others can perceive it. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to say that I do not want to be quite steep and understand and understand the motivation of my colleague Jan Farský, I understand the argument that, at times when there was no legislation to protect debtors and when really sluggish companies were in the lending field, even negligible debts could have climbed to several million-dollar levels, and that it is people with this debt that need to be helped now because they have lost their chances and prospects of ever paying such commitments. The abolition of the entry border therefore made sense if it really concerned only the debts that arose in this - and I will call it wild and unregulated times. But the insolvency amendment will most likely not only end with these debts, but it lays down general rules for insolvency in the future, and thus rules for those who are about to start to become indebted. The legal environment is now completely different from that of the past, and the legislation effectively protects debtors. If a colleague of Jan Farský's proposal passes, the public should know that, with his acceptance, the debt relief process is not only open to over-indebted poor people, but also to speculators with millions who will only use the laws for their own benefit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u25	I thank Mr Jan Bauer. Before Mrs Valachová comes forward, Mr Marek the Výborný's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u26	Thank you for the floor. I want to respond to my colleague Bauer. This announced cancellation of the entry upper limit for debtors must be said quite clearly: today's median debt is between 600 and 800 thousand crowns, which is far from the proposed original limit, which was somewhere 2.2 miles. Kroner, that's a thousand times that, and the vast majority of debtors are below that limit. So, in a way, the border was virtual, but mostly, and that was the reason why we agreed on the constitutional law committee and ultimately with the Minister on why to support it, is that at the beginning the court will not have to find out in a difficult way, and sometimes it will not even have the basis for whether the debt is by chance 2.1 million, or already 2.3 million, and the whole system would be significantly endangered by process. That is why it is clear why we support this because we believe that the border does not really play any role at all, it concerns the minimum of debtors, and therefore it is reasonable to completely abandon the system. There's nothing else to look for. And I'd like to respond to what my colleague Patrik Nacher said. I totally agree with him, but so that this doesn't give the impression that the system, as a few statements from creditors have been quoted here, isn't that the system works perfectly today. It works, yes, of course, the numbers are true, but only because the debt relief of today's system will only allow about 20,000 debtors a year, because the others will not meet the entry condition of 30 percent today. And I'm sorry that these arguments then sound from the mouth of the judicial, let's say, the capacity of the Chief Court, because he himself has to know very well that the figures are affected by exactly who gets into the debt. [[Time warning]] I'm not doing anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u27	Now one more factual remark from Mr Jan Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u28	Thank you for the floor. I would only, through Mr President, be to Mr Bauer. There are several reasons why I'm suggesting he's not in the law. One where I would say that I've taken a step away from the fact that there's no limit today, and it's a novelty that was originally proposed by the Justice Department. It's not like anyone can get into debt relief and escape from a debt trap. The honesty of purpose, recklessness, carelessness, if it is able to pay at least that part, will be judged, and will not allow anyone to go through debt in the last ten years. So it's not like we're letting go of the door. And what seems fundamental to me, and that's what I'm saying last, but the strongest argument, is that we don't know what the original principal was anymore. Given that even out of tens of thousands of debts through fines, various other forms of sanctions, loan shark interest, over the sale and possible capitalization, we simply will not find what the original principal was. If we were able to do that, of course, the debate might even make sense, but in the finals it can happen, and often it is that out of the tens of thousands of debts here within the possible credit Klondike, which was just here by December 2016, they are millions of debts, and if we don't give these people a chance to escape the debt trap, then the law, at least in this part, doesn't actually make sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And we will continue with Mrs Kateřina Valachová's speech, Mr Lukáš Kolářík will prepare. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words respecting, of course, the stage of the amendment to the insolvency law. I appreciate that the comprehensive amendment, supported by the Constitutional Legal Committee, has put in place amendments that have promoted social democracy, in particular the way of debt relief, or, if you want personal bankruptcy, towards seniors and seniors within three years, two years faster than the normal deadline. Moreover, in a situation where, after these three years, seniors and seniors can be sure that if they respect the rules and make every effort to repay their debts, they will actually be indebted. [[10.40 hours]] So thank you for this and I am glad that, at least for the time being, we have managed to find a majority for this proposal, and, of course, I would like the House across the political spectrum to support this amendment in support of this very common comprehensive amendment to the constitutional law committee. The second thing for which I am very pleased, once again, is in the summary package of amendments, and I believe that this too will be appreciated by colleagues and colleagues, is to improve the position in the enforcement of maintenance. You know that's a big problem. In the future, the maintenance will be paid immediately after the payment of the insolvency administrator. The third thing that we have supported as a social democracy and also got into this package of amendments is, therefore, that accessories that exceed 100 percent of the original debt fall into so-called subordinated debt. Of course, this also removes obstacles that very often prevent real debt relief and a second chance for debtors. Finally, I would draw your attention to Amendment I1. I have tabled this amendment with the aim of interpreting - I repeat, interpretation - amendment Malá-Nacher to treat creditors of insolvency courts in similar cases at the end of the five-year period, if conditions are met and conditions are complied with for five years, the repayment rules and, at the same time, comprehensively make use of all the efforts that can be reasonably required of them, so that these two conditions, if they are met, are effectively debt-debted. The aim, as I have already mentioned, is therefore to avoid out of caution ununited judicial practice and to ensure full respect for the will of the legislator, as was said here during the hearing of Patrik Nacher, the Taťána Malá, mine, but also Marek Výborný and, of course, I will mention the rapporteur Jan Chvojka, and I will even dare to mention the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek. Thank you for considering this amendment and its support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u31	Thank you, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Now, Mr Lukáš Kolářík, a colleague of Farský will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, allow me, in brief, to summarize the position of the pirát on this amendment to the insolvency law. You must know that one of the Pirates' priorities is the fight against poverty. That is why we have tabled an amendment to the order of execution and we also support this amendment to the insolvency law. In a situation where every tenth person is in debt in the Czech Republic, we need to find solutions and help these people. At present, only those who pay 30 per cent of their liabilities within five years will achieve debt relief. Paradoxically, those who need debt the most will not reach it today and are doomed to be in debt traps for the rest of their lives. This proposed amendment will open debt to a greater number of people, and therefore we pirát will vote in favour of this proposal. In my opinion, it is also crucial that Kateřina Valachová and Mr Farský's amendment be passed at the moment, because without these amendments, we will, in principle, only approve the current situation and not help the overdebted people, help only insolvency administrators and insolvency judges, and a lot of hours of people working on it will go to waste. I therefore ask the Pirates for approval not only of this amendment, but also of these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u33	I thank Mr Kolářik. Now, Mr Jan Farský, Mr Chvojka will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u34	Thank you. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank from this point of view the Ministry of Justice, which has done a great deal of work and was the basis for the preparation of the amendments and for this debate. I would certainly like to thank especially my colleague, the Výborný, who has done a huge job within the subcommittee. At a time when the ministry was not fully anchored by its leadership, he dragged the insolvency car forward and did not stop, for which he deserves a great thank you. But I would like to thank all those who have been involved in this subject, although we do not always agree on the outcome, of course, but I respect it as a democratic debate. I would like to ask you to support the J1, J2 and J3 amendments and, at the same time, I would like to support Kateřina Valachová's amendment, which is currently addressing the situation after the end of five years and the debate that is still going on here, whether it will be reviewed again or whether it will be automatic. This is a situation which I think would make this proposal very clear, and therefore I will certainly support it as proposed, whether in Amendment J2, or in Mrs Valachová's amendment. On Amendment J3, I would now like to read legislative technical amendments. I also thank you for the opportunity to consult with the Ministry of Justice, which helped with this. In accordance with Article 95 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I propose the following corrections to legislative technical errors and adjustments, which logically result from the amendments tabled. I. In Amendment J3, point 5, in the Houses of the Press, 71/6 reads: "5. Amendment point 31 reads: "31 In Article 406, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In point (b), point (c) is replaced by the following:". II. In Amendment J3, paragraph 7, in the Houses of Print 71/6, the words "the present point (c) shall be referred to as point (b)'shall be replaced by the words: "The existing points (c) and (d) shall be referred to as points (b) and (c).". III. In Amendment J3, in the Houses of the Press 71/6, the following point 8 is inserted after point 7: "8. In paragraph 60 of the amendment, the text of the letters. (c)'is replaced by 'written. (b) '.". Points 8 and 9 shall be referred to as points 9 and 10. IV. In Amendment J3, point 9 in the Houses of the Press, 71/6 reads: "9. [[Originally point 8.]] Amendment point 61 is amended by adding "a new point (d) after point (c)' in the introductory phrase, "a new point (c) after point (b)', in Section 418 para. " (d) debtor' is replaced by " (c) debtor' and in the final sentence the words "letter (d) shall be referred to as (e)'are replaced by "letter (c) shall be referred to as (d) '.". I know no one can be wise of it, but the procedure doesn't allow me to refer only to the printed text, which is why I was forced to read it here. I apologize to all those who tried to capture thoughts, paragraphs and paragraphs that were flying through the air. This is how it is passed from the legislation and I thank the Ministry of Justice once again for helping with the formulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u35	Thank you, Mr Jan Farský. Mr Nacher's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u36	Thank you for the floor. I did not want to use the form of factual remarks today, but I have to respond to the microphone, a fellow pirate party. If the amendment or the base in A passes, it is not true that nothing will change against the present. There's a marked change. A marked change, I repeat again. There's a 30 percent entry barrier today. She's falling off. The 30% in there is implied by the law. Some call it an educational, some call it a red light. And the key there is information, if the debtor makes all the effort that can be demanded fairly, and in those five years it will be under certain control of the insolvency administrator, it will be dealt with by other amendments, so it will be indebted. Please, let's not make some chimeras here that won't change anything. It will.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u37	Thank you for keeping time. One more factual comment from Mr Marek the Výborný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u38	Thank you. I don't want to repeat myself completely because I basically wanted to say what my colleague said. What really matters is that the whole philosophy of the debt relief process is changing. It's either gonna be a plug at the beginning, or we're gonna pop it off and let those people in. And that is a crucial message for the public, and that is something that needs to be clearly said. In the end, it's all about, say, the psychology of whether the debtor has a kind of one in front of him, and I'm telling the imaginary red light that he'll know: and I really need to go through the debt thing with everything that comes with it. It's not gonna be any hippy, no honey for five years or those three years, but the benefits of the state are just at the end of it. And not that the court will really be able to deal with it on its own terms. This is not the case, we do not scare the public or the media and ultimately not part of the professional public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u39	Thank you, Members of the Excellent. Mr Ferjenčík's point of fact now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u40	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond very briefly to the previous speaker. Unfortunately, I think it's very brave in this country that I wouldn't dare make any predictions here. And that's why we, for example. We support the amendment of my colleague Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u41	Thank you for your time on the point of fact and we continue with Mr Jan Chvojka's speech in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm not going to talk about it, I've already done that in my opening speech, and I think it's basically all been said by my colleagues. However, it is still necessary in accordance with § 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House to make corrections to legislative technical errors and adjustments which logically result from the amendments tabled. And I'd like to present a few of them here. First of all, in Amendment B to point VI in the Houses of the Press 71/6, the words "parts of the first paragraph 5, to § 139, which take effect on the first day of the 40th calendar month following its publication, with the exception of the provisions " shall be inserted after the word " provision. [[k § 102 and 6]] The reasoning is that Amendment B (VI) and Amendment A31 (3) govern the provisions on the effectiveness of the Act. The adjustments do not conflict with each other. In the light of the voting procedure, I propose that Amendment B also reflect the effectiveness adjustments according to proposal A31. Then I will ask in Amendment I in point 2 in Houses Press 71/6, the words 'to be' are replaced by 'to be paid'. The justification - the proposal submitted contains the design of a rebuttable legal presumption. From his logical point of view, however, it is clear beyond doubt that a legal presumption should have been applied irrefutable. I therefore propose to bring the relevant wording into line with the custom introduced by the Civil Code for expressing an irrefutable presumption. And then I would like to request application and, of course, then approval of the legislative technical proposal when adopting Amendment B IV, as follows. In addition to the title of the law, the words "Law No. 296/2017 Coll., amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 292/2013 Coll., on special judicial procedures, as amended, and some other laws', which responds to Amendment B IV, which is a change of effectiveness for the amendment of the Law on Courts and Judges, the amendment of which is contained in Act No. 296/2017 Coll. This legislative technical regulation would be voted conditional, of course, on the adoption of Amendment B IV. This means that, if Amendment B IV is not approved, this legislative technical regulation will not be incorporated into the final text. That's all for me, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u43	I thank Mr Chvoj, Mr Chvojka, with a point of fact, Mr Jiří Bláha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u44	Dear colleagues, I wanted to sign up with a longer speech, but I have assessed that I do not want to keep you long, so only briefly. Here we have heard the matter throughout the course of the lecturers, how they are burdened on one side of the debtors, on the other hand those who lend money or banks and other institutions, lawyers etc., but no one has mentioned one of the most important ingredients and these are those who collect the money, which is 99 percent of entrepreneurs who also employ the debtors. This means that I would like to conclude, after today's day, that it is necessary to continue to deal with the insolvent and enforcement law and that it is necessary to change it because, throughout the course of the process, there has not been an absolute change in helping entrepreneurs to reduce their administrative burden on the basis of the care of their employees. Nowadays, entrepreneurs are included in a number of responsibilities they have to do, and most importantly, they receive all enforcement and insolvency requirements in paper form, and under the threat of a fine they are forced to take care of this. Let me just give you an example. With me, one of my employees has 23 executions, so you can imagine how burdened the girl in question is with me to process it. So what I would like to say here is that various associations and interest associations have suggested how data management should be changed so that entrepreneurs are not burdened. Unfortunately, it was all thrown off the table, and as a result, whoever's at the end, the businessman who's taking care of it, it's actually still a negative. So I'm going to ask you not to forget this and to realize that there is a need for help from entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u45	Mr. Ambassador, tolerance alone, the time for a factual remark is up. A colleague, Mr Marek Benda, is still reporting in the debate. I don't have any other written application, i.e. an application from the place. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u46	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to perform at all, but I was provoked by Mr Bláha, who, in turn, is talking about something that is not in the law at all. Yes, this law deals with the insolvency part of the over-indebted people. We will have to accept, in some form, some parts that relate to executions, their merger, or the simplification of administration for especially employers, where it is really absurd if they go to 24, 27 execution titles and each one they pay 1.70 crowns. But that's not a case of insolvency proceedings, that's exactly the other way around. In insolvency proceedings it is already merged into one decision, selected by the insolvency administrator by one decision and divided by the creditor. [[11.00 hours]] And then, of course, there is the other part, and I think it is right that it should also be mentioned at this point, and that is how the state will help creditors in particular, how it will become a part of simplifying the situation of debtors, and that is, in particular, easier possibilities of tax write-off. Part of it is in the tax package that Minister Schillerová presented here the day before yesterday. That's where the value added tax part is. The next part, how to identify quickly and let's say be able to determine that this person will never pay anything again, which is why it is useless to manage the debt for it somewhere and it is possible to write it off taxably, we will have to deal with it sometime in the future. We wanted to open it in this insolvency novel, but it would be too burdensome. However, we know that there is a problem and that we also need to deal with it in some way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u47	Thank you. Mr Bláha, Mrs Válková, will respond with a factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u48	I'm glad it said that I still have time to come here. It is strange that no one realizes when the employee goes to insolvency proceedings, how many documents the company has to prepare for the employee in order to initiate the insolvency proceedings. And what happens after the insolvency proceedings. Most of those people who fall into insolvency immediately go into the gray zone, because just a salary of ten, twelve or fourteen thousand a month isn't enough for him to live. So the businessman whose employee falls into insolvency is struggling with the problem, immediately facing the problem of what he can do for his employee to preserve it. Because that employee, if he has a duty to pay only 30 per cent and only four thousand per month are required to pay 30 per cent for that obligation, and at the moment when he takes 27,000 clean and falls suddenly into a group of people who will only take 14,000 pure, he obviously doesn't want to submit to it and goes to a grey economy, so employers come to the surface with other responsibilities that he has to deal with. That means how to deal with it. Worst case scenario, where he can get another worker, because most people on the job are only made by those who work with their hands, who are currently in insolvency and in executions. So think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Válková is still registered with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u50	Thank you. I would just like to explain that perhaps my colleague, Mr Bláha, for the ANO movement, wanted to explain to colleagues and colleagues what factual problems the debtor can get into. However, what we're discussing here is completely different, and I think that each of us, I dare say, can't focus on everything. So you're dealing with the actual effects. We have put forward here a way of dealing with the bleak situation that you have here dramatically, and certainly partly rightly - in part, I say from a legal point of view it is not what you say it is. So I would recommend that we go from the political, factual consequences to what we as the House can do here, that is to agree to an amendment to insolvency proceedings, which will greatly improve the position of those you are so interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u51	Thank you. Mr Chvojka reporting with a point of fact - Mr Chvoj? Or a debate. You can go to the debate, so let's go to the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u52	I would like to respond to Mr Bláha through, of course, the Vice-President. My colleague Bláha is such, I would say, an unfortunate man, who, when some point is coming to an end, he will perform with some factual remark that is pointless, and then we're talking about her for an hour and a half. I'd like to challenge him not to do it anymore, because then we're talking about each point for two hours longer than it looked. [[Laughing in the hall]] But unfortunately I have to respond, because as Mr. Bláha must react, he is not right, but I like the fact that Mr. Bláha has such a nice voice, he could speak the audiobooks I like, and it would fall asleep. But I'd like to respond to what he said. Of course, what he said doesn't make sense. The man who goes into insolvency, he said, he goes into insolvency and immediately disappears into the gray economy. It's against the law. That's two claims in one sentence that are inconsistent. The man, if he wants to enter debt, must have some income and must prove, at least nowadays, that he has some income. And if he doesn't prove that he has any income, then no debt relief will ever be approved. That means he's not running into any gray economy. And the second claim. He runs into a gray economy, and then employers have a lot of work to do with it. That's completely nonsense. If he escapes into a gray economy, he has no official job, no official employer, and it's over. I wanted to point out that you were wrong again, and please try not to respond to me again, so that it doesn't raise any more factual remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u53	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that we hear each other in the Chamber of Deputies. There will be a response from Mr Bláha, who has come forward with a factual point of view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u54	I am glad that everyone here, through Mr President, knows how it works in the business environment. I'm really glad you're keeping an eye on this. But I'm gonna tell you one more time how it works, so you really know. This means that anyone who wants to be in debt must ask his employer to draw up documents that he then submits to the insolvency administrator. That's the first step. When the debt goes down, the employee in question finds out that there's nothing left for him to do to support his family but walk away from who wants to pay him officially, or even ask his employer - are you willing to pay me black? And even it turns out that the employees who come to me and have a paid-up amount of 30 percent are being challenged by insolvency administrators: tell this Bláh that now, if he doesn't give you the money black, you're gonna be sick. That's normal practice. But you live here, in the gold plating of the Chamber of Deputies, and I live where those employees demand me. Just remember, if you want to judge someone, you need to find out. And information is the basis for us to deal with something. When you want to talk to me about it, I'm open to it, and I'll be happy to explain it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate will continue with factual remarks. Mrs Richterová, President Stanjura, Mr Benda, Mr Veselý, is applied for. Before I give the floor to Mrs Richterová, I'm going to ask you again to calm down. The atmosphere here is not so that we can continue our negotiations. I ask everyone to keep their voice down and we can finish discussing this point in a dignified atmosphere. [[The noise lasts.]] Thank you. Mrs Richterová has the floor on a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u56	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, I would like us to get to the vote. I just want to point out, in substance, that we will have a chance to discuss a proposal that will reduce the administrative burden for entrepreneurs. I would like to point out that, for example, today, when a municipal communication management company, namely Varnsdorf's example, actually has about 32 or 33 employees who each have several executions, they need an additional common agenda for one full person to communicate with the executive authorities. So that's a huge burden. This simply means at least half a million extra spending per year for a small municipality. That's right. But this please does not address today's insolvency law. Please, this will be dealt with if it gets into discussion, which I believe it will, the amendment to the Enforcement Order and will contribute to improving the territoriality of the executors. That's in the pirate proposal. Please, let's go back to insolvency today and finish this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u57	Thank you. President Stanjura and his point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u58	I will speak, by your means, Mr Vice-President, to Mr Bláh. Don't make a fool of us. I live in a village with 1,800 inhabitants. You're not the only one who doesn't live in Prague. Don't make a fool of us. You're speaking factually correctly, but at a totally stupid point. That's what your colleagues said. Let's talk about it, most of us agree with the description of the situation, with the administrative difficulty, including people running into the gray economy. We agree. But we could also discuss this in GDPR or in insurance or social security or internal EU administration. That's just as convenient as when we're talking about it at this point. In the third reading, you're completely wrong, and you're insulting us that we're living in some kind of golden cage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u59	Thank you. Mr Benda's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u60	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, I don't see one, ladies and gentlemen. He said it to a large extent, but there are times when Mr. Bláha doesn't respond to what Mr. Stanjura says. First of all, tell me what are the lists of papers that a poor employee has to submit for insolvency and which an employer has to process for him. Salary. All you're putting him into insolvency is what he's gonna have in the next six months, and we're debating whether it's three months or six months, we're gonna vote on it in a minute. All you have to say is his salary. He has to count his own debts. Again, the amendments contain that they will not have to count them. It's because we don't have solid boundaries. Well, that's the first thing. And the other thing. If you're telling me that someone is calling you to cheat and cheat on your tax secretary, then please deal with this through law enforcement agencies and not by crying here in the House. What you're telling us here is pure tax fraud!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u61	Thank you. Mr Veselý, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to return it to an unattackable impersonal level. But to all Members who do not fully understand, I will say that there is a huge difference between executions and insolvencys. Yes, it happens in executions, and those people have a huge incentive to go into the gray zone so that they don't admit their income simply because there's nothing to execute them. If they do it in insolvency, and I'm stressing it out for everyone, they're screwed because they're gonna lose the insolvency and they're not gonna get a second chance. Please, insolvency and execution are a huge difference, let's think about it. The law is prepared very modestly, and let us not doubt it. What Mr Bláha says through Mr President concerns executions. Insolvency when you go into the gray zone, you end up with insolvencys and you don't get another chance. It's total nonsense, and the person who does it is a total lunatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u63	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u64	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to stand up for my colleague Bláha, because I think it's nice for someone to say their experience with how the laws really work. And really, if it's happening to him, I think it's relevant for him to deal with it in the House. It's just the situation where an employee goes into insolvency and asks his employer to give him part of his paycheck black, that makes me feel completely real. I don't think it's entirely real that employers are gonna turn in their employees who asked them to do this, even though, of course, de iure is wrong. Probably someone with x-million debts on their hands needs to support their family and come to Mr. Bláha here, if there's any way to deal with it, I guess Mr. Bláha won't go to the police if he tells him you're crazy, that's cheating. I have some understanding here that compassion is also involved, and I don't think it's reasonable to expect this problem to be solved at the police station. So please don't insult each other here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have no further application for the debate. Anyone else reporting for the debate from the scene? This is not the case, I am ending the debate. Is there an interest in the applicant's final words? It is. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u66	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I shall be very brief. Thank you so much for the debate that has taken place again. Some things have been said during the debate, which, I confess, I do not know if they have been dealt with here. I suppose so. However, there have been some questions that I would like to comment on in the final words. It says a lot about the proposal. How much is this gonna cost? We assume that the involvement of those people who are in the debt trap today, back in the proper economic process, and, of course, let us come out of the fact that these are gross estimates, because we don't know how many people will eventually be tempted to enter it. We expect that the contribution to the state budget can be between CZK 3 billion and CZK 10 billion a year. Only on the drafts, only that they'll be in the standard economic process. As far as the impact on the courts is concerned, our calculations are based on the fact that the idea will increase by 30 to 40 percent, which will mean an increase in the number of judges by 20 to 30 throughout the Czech Republic. The costs associated with this will be between 100 and 130 miles. CZK 2020. In other words, certain expenditures from the state budget from the Justice Ministry chapter will be here, but they should be richly compensated by the fact that the tens of thousands and perhaps hundreds of thousands of people will return to the standard economic life, not to mention that it will have a positive impact on benefits and so on. That means just enough to answer that question. At the same time, there was some concern here in the debate about the 30 percent threshold, which is at the end of the debt relief. However, I have made an algorithm for myself to judge such a question as a judge. And I can assure you that doesn't mean any closed doors for anyone in debt. As a judge, I will first have to answer the question of whether or not 30 per cent has been paid off. If it was, the second question will be: Is there any reasonable doubt that the debt relief did not take place properly? If I do not find such a doubt, the legal presumption is that it has been properly implemented and the conditions for debt relief are met. If I find such a doubt, for example, that someone paid 31 percent and was able to repay 90 percent, I will continue to prove how the debt relief conditions were actually fulfilled. If I find out at that first step that he has paid less than 30 per cent, I will automatically proceed to the next step. And here I'm going to examine whether he really made all the effort that could be demanded. What all this effort means, or what will be the failure to comply with the conditions for debt relief, is already quite richly suggested by the caselaw. If someone just stops working, changes the job from paid well, goes to a job that's not paid well, those are exactly the cases for which the debt relief should be lifted. That means, it really is that the debt relief system brings people back to the standard economic regime and keeps them in it, which is essential. I will no longer speak on this proposal. I believe that it is beneficial for the citizens of our Czech Republic, that it is beneficial for the state and ultimately does not harm even the creditors themselves. And I ask very much for his support, as amended by those amendments, where I will give a positive opinion on behalf of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u67	Thank you. Is the rapporteur of the guarantee committee interested in the final word? Or the rapporteur of another committee, the Committee on Social Policy, who dealt with this law? He's also not interested in the final word. Before we proceed to the vote on the amendments, President Bartošek asked for a priority speech. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u68	Thank you. Given the fundamental standard, I would ask for a 15-hour break so that all Members can participate, and then we would vote on the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u69	Yes, I understand. I'm okay with this request. The House meeting will continue at 11.35 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 11:35 p.m., we will continue our negotiations. We are in a situation where the final words have been spoken, and we should proceed to the vote on individual amendments. I ask President Chvojka, who is the rapporteur I have not yet seen here... and he is here to introduce us to the draft procedure and take us through the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u71	Well, thank you again for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. I have the procedure ahead of me, it was approved by the Constitutional Legal Committee meeting. That means it's standard procedure. The procedure is pretty simple, which means we're voting 22 times. We've had a long vote here. Let's get on with it, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u72	After all, I would be in favour of approving the draft procedure, as presented by the guarantee committee, by the vote. It'll be more certain because the procedure isn't quite simple. Plus, I feel that Mr Luzar is applying to comment on the procedure, so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u73	He may not like it, because of course he should know it. Each Member shall have it in his/her e-mails on his/her desks. I'll give my colleague priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u74	So please, Mr. Ambassador, if you're applying for a procedure, I'll give you my word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u75	Mr President, thank you for the floor. My colleague Chvojka doesn't need to be afraid of you, I don't want to hack his complicated procedure. Please only make a special vote on paragraph 9 which was registered under number 1189 in the A block, which is a block approved by the Constitutional Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u76	I ask the rapporteur whether he agrees with such a proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u77	Well, I briefly consulted with the chairman of the ÚPV and the chair of the subcommittee, and he claims that this is not possible. That means, I understand Mr Luzar's proposal, but it is not legislative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u78	Okay. The chairman of the Constitutional Legal Committee is still reporting on this procedure. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u79	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a somewhat unusual situation here. At the beginning of the second reading, we approved that we are debating the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee. That's the point A. Just to be sure - I would almost say for myself that this is the case - but, to be sure, we have put a vote on point A as a whole at the end of the vote. But the proposal to vote separately on any of these points would have to be made. And we've also been pointing that out here. At second reading, it is not possible to set it aside until the third reading, because it is indeed the basis on which this House has decided to vote as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u80	Thank you for your explanation. And since there is an opinion that it is not possible to vote on Mr Luzar's proposal, I would have solved the whole thing by voting on the draft procedure as presented by the guarantee committee and as presented here by President Chvojka. And if the procedure is approved, we'll follow it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u81	That's right. I agree. I don't think there's a need for me to read these 22 points as they follow. I repeat, you each have it in your e-mails or on your desks. After all, you'll see the procedure in the process as it goes. But certainly from the point of view of some certainty and also because of what my colleague Benda said that we actually agreed on the comprehensive amendment to the IDA as a basis for the other amendments, let us once again approve it by voting on the procedure itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u82	So now we will vote on the procedure as proposed. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number 67. Of the 177 Members, for 170, against 2. The proposal has been adopted and we will follow the proposed procedure, which we have now approved. Please, rapporteur, give us a tour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u83	Thank you. Of course, as is customary within a large part of the third reading, we should first vote on corrections and adjustments to legislative technical and resulting from the amendments tabled. We've got my legtechs and my legtechs from a fellow Farský. That means we are voting on legislative technical adjustments, all of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u84	All legislative technical modifications, yes. It may not be necessary in this case, but for the record, I'm going to ask you for an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u85	I'm just looking at Mr. Chairman of the IDA. Is he in trouble again? [[Laughs in the hall.]] As usual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u86	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u87	I would ask that these proposals be voted on as they have been put forward, that is to say, my colleague Chvojka and my colleague Farský. At least for some, I have some doubts as to whether these are legtechs, but I will make that a vote. I'd just like them to vote separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u88	That means two votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u89	Okay, I don't... I don't have a problem with that. I think it can be voted by one vote, because that is both legislative technical regulation. If there's another proposal, let's vote on the legtech that Chvojka has read and the legtech that a colleague of Farský has read.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u90	Okay. So now we will vote on the legislative technical amendments proposed by Mr Chvojka. [[Rapporteur: That's right.]] And your position?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u91	I'm afraid my position is no longer required, but rather the position of the IDA. [[- Yes.]] Which it isn't. Which logically isn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u92	Okay. I see. We do not need to insist on a legislative technical opinion. Okay. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 68, 177 Members signed in for 177, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the legislative technical amendments proposed by President Farský. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 69, 177 Members signed in for 135, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. We will therefore now proceed to the amendments. Here I am asking for the opinion of both the Committee rapporteur and the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u93	So I will allow myself to correct you, Mr Vice-President, no longer the Committee's rapporteur, but I will give the committee an opinion as a whole. We will now vote on Amendment B, which is my amendment. And for each amendment, I will say a short sentence if it goes with one sentence of what it is about. That is, Amendment B is a technical amendment relating to the insolvency asset allocation generator in courts. And there is the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, which recommends this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u94	Mr. Secretary? [[Affirmative opinion.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 70, 177 Members signed in for 176, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u95	Thank you. Now the amendment under letter C. The petitioner is Mr Bauer. Again briefly - a demonstrative list of cases founding dishonest intent. The opinion of the Constitutional Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u96	Thank you. Mr. Secretary? [[Opinion disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 71, 177 Members signed in for 27, against 116. This proposal has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u97	Thank you. The next amendment is Amendment D1. It is Mr Feri's amendment. In short, an increase in the remuneration of the processor of the proposal for authorisation of debt relief. Opinion of the CSA not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u98	Mr. Secretary? [[Opinion disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 72, 177 Members signed in, for 4, against 148. This proposal has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u99	Thank you. Next, D2. Again, Mr Feri's amendment, which wants to limit the possibility of interruption of the debt relief process. Opinion of the Constitutional Committee not recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u100	Mr. Secretary? [[Dissenting position.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 73, 177 Members registered, for 23, against 153. Nor has this proposal been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u101	Thank you. We also have Amendment F1, which is an amendment by Mrs Ožanová. This amendment specifically seeks to exclude the sharing of the staff of the insolvency administrator or insolvency administrators. And the opinion of the Constitutional Committee was not taken without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u102	Mr. Secretary? [[A neutral opinion.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 74, 177 Members signed in for 16, against 93. This proposal has also not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u103	Thank you. F2 as a whole. Also, the amendment by Mrs Ožanová means an explicit adjustment to the performance of the function of insolvency administrator, primarily in person, or through staff or employees. The opinion of the Constitutional Committee is a recommendation. And if it's accepted, we can't vote on D3 and G3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u104	Mr. Secretary? [[Opinion in favour.]] Yes, it is. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 75, registered as 176 Members, for 105, against 55. The proposal was adopted, which means that the D3 proposal is unvoting. Please, rapporteur, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u105	I don't think there's a voteable G3 or D3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u106	The G3 proposal is, according to what I have at my disposal here in the documents and according to the resolution of the Constitutional Committee, a voteable one. It is not only proposal D3 that can be voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u107	We have already discussed this, so we are voting on the G3 of Mr Benda. Short - for personnel equipment, the employee is also a registered partner. The opinion of the CIP is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u108	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 76, 177 Members signed in for 63, versus 83. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u109	Thank you. The D3 is therefore unvoting. So it is next for Mr Excellent E1's amendment as a whole. In short, it means abolishing the proof of revenue. The opinion of the CIP was not biased, without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u110	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 77, 177 Members signed in, for 81, against 92. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u111	Thank you. Next, we have J as a whole, Mr Farský's amendment. This means that the completion of debt relief after three years without the qualifying satisfaction of creditors' claims, in short. Opinion of the CSA: Not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u112	Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 78, 177 Members signed in for 28, against 125. The proposal has not been adopted, which means that we can vote on other amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u113	Thank you. In addition, the amendment by Mr Farského J2 as a whole, the completion of debt relief after five years without the qualifying satisfaction of creditors' claims. Opinion of the CSA: Not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u114	Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 79, 177 Members signed in for 26, versus 134. This proposal has also not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u115	Thank you. Furthermore, we have an amendment under G2 as a whole. The author is Mr Benda, and it is a reduction in the less-than-debt situation only for debtors with debts incurred before 1 December 2016. Opinion of the CSA: Not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u116	Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 80, 177 Members signed in for 48, versus 127. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u117	Thank you. In addition, Mr Výborný's amendment to E2, increasing the necessary satisfaction after three years from 50 per cent to 60 per cent. Opinion of the CSA: Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u118	Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 81, 177 Members registered, for 130, against 28. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u119	Thank you. Furthermore, there are amendments which we will vote together, H2, H3 from Mrs Levová, excluding the possibility of three-year debt relief. The opinion of the CIP is not recommended. Sorry, sorry...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u120	I have a point here that we cannot vote because we have approved Amendment E2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u121	It's true. Thank you for warning me, it would be an unnecessary vote. It would be contrary to what we have already approved, thus unvoting. I'm sorry, I'm out of my mind. Then we are voting on Amendment I1 by Mrs Valachová, which is an adjustment to the conditions for the fulfilment of the debt relief and a presumption of 30%. Therefore, it did not deliver an opinion without the opinion of the CIP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u122	Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 82, 177 Members registered, for 36, against 102. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u123	Thank you. Furthermore, I have the amendment of Mr Benda G1 as a whole. Shortly allowing insolvency administrators and executioners to perform their duties. The CIP did not deliver an opinion on this amendment without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u124	Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 83, 177 Members signed in, for 41, versus 44. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u125	Thank you. Furthermore, I have here Amendment H1, which is the amendment by Mrs Levová. It puts in the insolvency law an adjustment to the amount for which it can be deducted without restriction. Opinion of the CSA: Not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u126	Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 84, 177 Members registered, for 23, against 143. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u127	Thank you. We're getting close to the finals. Furthermore, we must vote on the amendment by Mrs Valachová, under I2, to limit interest on late payment in the event of unsuccessful debt relief. Opinion of the CSA: No opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u128	Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 85, 177 Members signed in for 34, versus 83. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u129	Thank you. Amendment J3 as a whole by my colleague Farský, which removes the entry barrier in the form of a maximum amount of debts of 2.2 million. Kč. Opinion of the Constitutional Committee - recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u130	Just for the record, we're at design J3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u131	J3 colleague Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u132	Yes. Mr. Secretary? [[Opinion in favour.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 86, 177 Members signed in for 130, versus 3. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u133	Thank you. The penultimate vote on point A, which is a summary of the amendments recommended by the Constitutional Legislative Committee for Second Reading as a whole, as amended. Opinion of the Committee - Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u134	Mr. Secretary? [[Opinion in favour.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 87, 177 Members signed in for 164, against no one. This proposal was adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u135	Thank you. And now, if I am not mistaken, neither does the legislation say anything to colleagues, so really just voting on the law as a whole, as amended by the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u136	You're not wrong. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and its solutions, as amended, House press 71, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[insolvency law]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u137	The Constitutional Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-26-ps2017-020-04-002-112.u138	The Minister, I presume, also recommends. [[Yes.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 88, 177 Members signed in for 154, against no one. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister, and I am done discussing this point. Before we proceed to discuss another point, I'll introduce you to the apologies that have come in the meantime. Mr David Kasal apologizes for today's meeting from 12 o'clock for health reasons, Mrs Miroslava Němcová apologises for the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies today from 11.30 to the end of the day, and Mr Julius Špičák apologizes for today's meeting between 12 and 14 o'clock for working reasons. Initiating hearing
