ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u1	69. Position of the Government of the Czech Republic on events in Syria So far, for my duration, I have always honored the gentlemen's agreement that has already been established on the previous Organising Committee, in the event that it is a government position, that first someone will speak for the government, and only then would the plaintiff speak, and he would automatically become rapporteur for this point. We've always kept it up so far. The chairman's shaking his head, I'm lucky to have it copied, even the protocol from the organizational committee meeting. [[shows paper]] I don't think that's a problem. [[Mr Zaoralek's reaction from the point of view.]] Okay. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Martin Stropnický will speak for the Government of the Czech Republic on this point. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u2	Thank you, Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, in the following speech, I will try to sum up, if possible briefly, as a starting point for the subsequent very likely debate on the subject which is the subject of our negotiations at the moment. The tragic situation in Syria has been going on for the eighth year. The war in a previously 22 million - year - old country cost about 500,000 people their lives. Estimates vary from source to source. According to UN data, 13 million Syřan today need humanitarian aid, 5.6 million directly referred to it. Outside his home, 6 million people reside in Syria, and a further 5.5 fled to foreign - 5.5 million Syřan abroad before the war. In the Syrian conflict, systematic violations of international law continue. In addition to the repeated use of chemical weapons, there are also other attacks on civilians and on civilian facilities. Hospitals were not even spared targeted attacks. It is clear that the most common and serious offender is the Syrian regime itself, a government that is subject to an international commitment to protect its own population. Many of these acts seem to represent war crimes or crimes against humanity. Therefore, the Czech Republic supports the involvement of the International Criminal Court in their investigations. The international community as a whole is unable to intervene effectively. A trivial view of the UN Security Council, where Russia vetoed a total of 12 resolutions on Syria, is six of them on the use of chemical weapons. The basis for a peaceful political solution exists - so-called. The Geneva Process, conducted by the UN in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 2254 and the Geneva Declaration of 2012. The Czech Republic, together with its allies, consistently calls on all the actors in the conflict to contribute to deescalation and restore peace negotiations. At the same time, from the beginning, we are engaged humanitarianly. Czech humanitarian aid for Syria and the region reached CZK 613 million between 2012 and 2017. Today it's not just Syria. UN Secretary-General António Guterres called the situation the most serious threat to international peace and security. The consequences of war for Europe are clear. The long conflict has encouraged international terrorism, brought foreign fighters who pose a security risk on their return home, triggering an uncontrolled wave of migration. Last but not least, it reinforced the impression that war crimes can be committed with impunity. All indications are that on 7. 4. there was a chemical attack against the civilian population in Douma, and such a barbaric war crime the Czech Republic strongly condemns. The use of chemical weapons is unacceptable and undermines the very foundation of the international security system. Cases of chemical attacks in Syria have been repeatedly detected by international mechanisms. We fully support independent international investigations as well as the severe punishment of the perpetrators. The UN Security Council has not been able to respond effectively to the situation, so we consider US, Great Britain and France's military intervention of 14. 4. for a clear message to anyone who would like to continue the chemical attacks in Syria. It was a limited and precise intervention without loss of life. There is no credible way to interpret it differently. [[15.00 hours]] The Czech Republic intends to keep its engagement in Syria in the future. We continue to stand up for the political solution under the patronage of the UN. We will seek to investigate and punish the gross violations of human rights, crimes against humanity and war crimes committed by anyone in Syria. Of course, we will continue to provide humanitarian aid and other means to stabilise the situation of refugees in Syria and in the surrounding countries. The presence of the representative office of the Czech Republic in Damascus remains an important part of our efforts. It facilitates communication between various parties to the conflict, providing humanitarian aid, interpreting the opinions of the Czech Republic and the European Union to the Syrian Government and representing our allies in the country, including the USA. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u3	Thank you, Minister. And I will now ask the appellant of this point, Mr Zaorálek, to speak and then take up his role as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u4	Thank you. I would like to thank the House for approving the inclusion of that point, and I believe it will be of use if this debate is held here. And thank you for introducing Minister Stropnický. I would like to make some introductions to the debate. I would like to respond, for example, to what was said here from the mouth of Mr Benešík, President Benešík, who said: Why are we only doing this now? Haven't we noticed that the war has been going on for years? I would like to say that there is quite a strong reason to address this problem. And it's not like we could say that they've been killing each other for five years, and there's no point in talking about it. But I want to tell you, it's not just the half a million dead. The point is that in Syria, we are witnessing something that is taking on a proxy war, i.e. The conflict in which war is fought on behalf of the people is something similar that happened on the territory of this state sometime in the 17th century, when there was a 30-year war and in our territory there were various armies. As a result, only one third of the population remained in the territories of our country after this war. So imagine the events of the Thirty Years War and their impact on the then population of our territory, and something similar is happening in Syria. Because there's no such thing as what happens in wars. I mean, in normal wars, people are exhausted, resources are exhausted, and sometimes the war ends for the general fatigue. But that's not going to happen when, like in that 30-year war, new and new not only weapons, new and new, not just ammunition, but even humans are delivered to that territory. There are even warriors gathering there, who have actually continued on the territory of that state far longer than it would have kept the population of their own country, that would have been settled long ago. But since everything is supplied there almost infinity, there can be war there after decades. That's the tragedy of the conflict. That poor Syřan. For me, it was a nice experience - or a nice - terrible experience with a little Syrian boy, a young boy, who said to me: "I don't care who drops the bombs anymore! I don't give a damn who he is. It's just horrible and it's impossible to live in!" And those who are involved there, you all know this is Iran, it is of course Russia, it is Turkey, 2,000 soldiers of the United States of America, just all of these are there and are actually leading this proxy conflict, a conflict in representation, which is not only terribly devastating to Syria itself - that is why I say poor Syřan! - but which, above all, is extremely dangerous, my friends. Because the danger of this proxy conflict is that there are actually powers in that territory. And that they can even meet in fact! And that is even the risk of a conflict that may even increase! And that's what we're damn concerned about. And it was in the situation that arose a few days ago that was actually looming. Because you'll all remember that when American President Donald Trump warned the Rus and said his thing: Get ready, Russia! - Get ready, Rus, I'm sending you some pretty new smart weapons, rockets! - then the Rus replied, "Well, send them, we'll shoot them down for you, and then we'll attack the locations where the missiles were sent from." And when I say this, you realize the great risk of the situation. Because that's when the Rus would have got into conflict with the Američan! And that's what we remember from the 20th century. It was a huge risk of conflict that would suddenly arise from one cause in another territory, but that would then rise into a huge conflict of magnitude. So I'm answering Mr. Benešík again. Why should we deal with this? Because everyone in this country feels that the danger of what's going on is huge, and that no one knows when the miscalculation might occur, the miscalculation, the miscalculation. And a reaction that can suddenly lead to something we can't even imagine. And notice how curious the situation is when the tomahawks are finally triggered, and we all suspect that, at the same time, the other party is informed, and there is no doubt, since there are actually no casualties in this particular event, there is no doubt that everyone has been informed in advance to clear it out. And we don't know if people, but maybe even the chemical weapon-related material that may have been cleaned out, so the damage is minimal. And we did one big fireworks here, one big theater event, and I'm asking what its benefits are, as I said today, in Damascus they rejoice in the streets that it went so smoothly. And apparently we continue as if nothing had happened. So what's the effect of this action? What did we really do? First of all, we have not been able to change the fundamental situation that we do not have a strategy and we have no idea what to do with this region and that our roles are actually constantly falling there, regardless of the fact that from time to time we shoot a few dozen tomahawks and try carefully to hit some targets so that we don't encounter someone who might react too wildly. This is a strange theater that's happening in front of people's eyes, and people are reading networks today, so of course they'll get to everything, they'll understand. And then they say, "What's the point? Today everyone gets to the information in which they find out that the US President said a month ago that, as far as Syria is concerned, the fight with the Islamic State ends there and we're leaving Syria. His then foreign minister Rex Tillerson made a different statement, saying that Syria needed to stay and that it needed to be, and appointed the five goals to be achieved there. But this foreign minister was suddenly called off. Which Mr Bašár Asad apparently saw. So he saw what happened to the one who said he was going to stay in Syria. That means, you know...? So what's happening in Syria today, in my opinion, corresponds to what the current regime imagines to be a likely Western response. So maybe we'll live for a while thinking that we've proven hard that we still have a word to say, but the situation in Syria doesn't change in reality. They don't change for the people who live there either. And our influence is simply minimal. That is why I think we need to talk as we did not speak enough about going to Afghanistan when we went to Iraq, where we went to actions that cost a lot of money and from which there was no effect, so I think that we need to talk in this House too, if there are doubts, because it is necessary to interpret the doubts that people have. And if the government comments on this, it should be able to take these doubts into account and react to them in some way. And I think that the Czech Republic should do it in the appropriate places. I am well aware of what has also been said here, I think, from the mouth of Mr Kalousek. That we are part of a certain architecture, certain institutions that guarantee us both security and prosperity today. I'm perfectly aware of that. But in my opinion, this is not the reason that we should not raise our voice in those institutions and ask questions that are simply obvious and that are also being asked in other parliaments of the Member States of the European Union or the Alliance. This is the debate we need. And the more concrete and briefer I think, and sometimes even the unseen, are the positions of the representatives of this government, the more I feel obliged to talk about it openly somewhere. To show that we are dealing with this and that we are trying to get the Czech Republic to do the task it has to do honestly. And talking about worries, talking about doubts, talking about what the risks are today, I think it's legitimate. [[15.10 hours]] I am simply afraid that the sentence that I have already said here today that the current policy of the United States is without consistency, without coherence with Syria, that it seems that we cannot expect any strategy from it, even in the foreseeable future, is simply true. And if we are involved in something like this, at least we need to talk about it on all the grémies we get into as members of the Alliance, as members of the European Union. This is our part. Otherwise, we can just wonder where we're gonna get to in a while. Today we don't know how many conflicts we've gotten into in the past because it turns out we weren't clear where we're going, like we weren't clear where we're going in Afghanistan, like it turns out that it's not clear where we're going in Iraq, like it turned out that we weren't clear where we're going in Libya, so we're just doing more tomahawka air raids and we're doing it in an area where it's also unclear where we're going. I repeat, year after year, we're gonna do some nice fireworks, but it's not clear what it was good for. So I don't think there's money, there's no capacity, there's no capacity, there's no people to be involved in foreign policy on matters that concern our security, which may be very risky to do things blindly and not to ask these questions. That's why I wanted this debate to open up, and I hope it makes sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u5	Good afternoon again, dear colleagues, gentlemen, members of the government. Let's keep going. Before I open the debate, I apologise to Mrs Jana Pastuchová from 17.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. I am now initiating a general debate, in which I have signed up with a factual remark on the position of the petitioner, Mrs Vrecionová. No, it's not like that. I've logged your application, colleague, so if you don't report... I don't have anyone registered in the debate. Well, in that case, the Prime Minister with priority rights and then a colleague. The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš, has the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, well, this item was proposed by Mr Zaorálek, who was Minister of Foreign Affairs for four years. And I am surprised that you did not make this fiery speech, Mr President, in February 2014 or earlier. Foreign policy is usually represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. And, of course, the Prime Minister. And our ministers have expressed themselves. Yes. And the fact that I said it was inevitable, well, when Mr. Trump said he'd do it, I guess it was inevitable. And the fact that I took the liberty of subsequently criticizing the Europe that was supposed to deal with it - and when was it supposed to deal with it? Well, in 2014, when illegal migration arose, they actually ran people from Syria before the war. And what did Europe do? I can't tell myself that? Someone blames me for not being pro-European enough? I think we've made it clear in the last few weeks that we're solidarity. And why can't I express my opinion? That Europe overslept that she left the whole territory to who? Well, now Iran, Turkey and Russia have met there. That we cleared out the field. Yes, I guess Mr. Obama didn't make it, our influence. He's our ally. And why wouldn't I say that? This does not mean that the government has made that clear. Yes. But instead of dealing with this peacefully, the most important politicians in Europe would have called a meeting with President Trump's participation in President Putin, Erdogan, etc. to develop some diplomatic offensive, that is not what happened. So I took the liberty of saying that I don't like it and that, of course, it's not gonna solve anything right now, probably that it's not the solution for the Syřan. And I have said x-times that Europe should have dealt with this in a diplomatic way. And I do not know what efforts we have made in Europe, or what efforts you have made as Minister of Foreign Affairs. You're going to argue, "I guess we're not here to deal with the whole world peace," but now that we're having this kind of fiery talk, we could have led them in those functions. I took the liberty of criticizing Europe that we should have dealt with it, we should have exercised influence in Syria, not letting those who took over today. And it was a matter of being with us. The migration. We were supposed to help those people. Marshallův's plan, a deal. And it's clear that after the launch of the new president... I haven't seen such a big initiative. And the fact that it couldn't be done without Russia was obvious. So why can't I give my opinion? We have made this clear as a government, the ministers have spoken about it, but that doesn't mean I can't add anything to it. And that's what I did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister. Good morning, everyone. At this point, I only have applications from the post. I have the first one here, Mr Kobza, if Mr Kalousek does not wish to exercise the right of priority. You do. So please, Prime Minister Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u8	Thank you. It's more like a factual remark, and I don't think I'm gonna go beyond the time limit, even though I took advantage of the priority right. Prime Minister, you have not been criticized, at least from among us, for giving any criticism of European policy towards the European Union. What bothered us was the reality of the following steps, which I dare repeat. On Saturday morning, around 9:00 p.m., the Foreign Minister published an opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the attack of our allies in Syria, I don't want to repeat it, we've all read it, I can only say that for example. Members of the TOP 09 may sign and support such an opinion. You took this position into your Twitter account, which made it seem like you were taking it as yours. After the Secretary of Defense had her crisis crew, she published her position, which was completely consistent with what the Foreign Minister presented and you presented yourself, so that everyone logically considered it the position of the Czech Government. You said so yourself a moment ago. The government has given its opinion. We were pleased that the United States of America thanked the Czech Republic for the position of the Czech Government. And everything would be perfectly fine if you yourself, on Sunday, were to criticize your ministers - not that you criticized the European Union, I do not blame you, you criticized your ministers! You said: Their position was not the position of the Czech government, they were competing with each other as well as I had nothing to do with it, I strongly deny everything they said. At that point, the Czech government's foreign policy became completely illegible not only for the Czech public but also for the world public. So were those positions of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence the position of the Czech Government? Or just like the two of them competed in some way and you from Lán told us that it was not the position of the Czech government. So I would be completely satisfied if you would get up now and say: The position of the Foreign Minister that I have taken over on my Twitter account is the Prime Minister's position in demise. Then I will also have it for the position of the Czech Government and I will take note of it and I will know what the foreign policy of the government is. I stress that I will support her on this point. But I didn't hear that. [[15.20 hours]] So be so kind as to confirm to us what words are the position of the Czech Government! The one from Saturday morning or the one from Sunday afternoon? She's in conflict. And because they are in conflict, the Czech government is also in front of the Czech public and the Czech Republic is in front of the world public for the clowns. So do me a favor, Prime Minister, and bring it into line!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u9	Thank you. If the Prime Minister does not want to respond, Mr Kobza is now in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, dear government, dear colleagues, I would like to point out a few facts that we should take into account before we believe everything that is being presented to us about the Syrian crisis. They said there was a chlorine attack. Syria's been at war for seven years, it has broken infrastructure, and chlorine is a basic disinfectant in various drinking water substances, and drinking water is a matter of survival in that area, so you can hardly find a place that didn't come into contact with chlorine, because if it got in contact with water, that chlorine was there too. What scares me personally is that although there was an attack, the sentence was decided immediately. I'm terrified of the name of a judge, a self-appointed judge who was a prosecutor, a judge, and a executioner. The judge's name was Lynch, and neither I nor my colleagues in the SPD will support this method of justice. It's like a famous saying from the 1950s that the perpetrator wasn't found, which is why he was determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u11	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mrs Černochová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I think that we can have a long discussion here about what has happened, and I do not think that some statements are entirely happy in this sequence, as there were some variables between Saturday and Sunday, but I offer, as Chair of the Committee on Defence, the opportunity of the President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs through the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, if perhaps it would not be appropriate if our two committees were to meet at a joint meeting, to request the presence of both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence, of course it would be ideal for the Prime Minister to take part in this joint committee, and where we would discuss some things there. Maybe not even in the past, because what happened from Friday to Saturday - depending on the time we're judging it - isn't gonna change that. Rather, we should say, and I personally wonder what perspective the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in terms of Syria seems to be there. In other words, what happens next. If even Czech diplomacy could be some mediator of some disputes in this regard, if we feel up to it, if not only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs feels up to it, but also defense. We're going to be discussing missions here at some point. I wonder if the Secretary of Defense feels that at some point we should contribute to our soldiers, especially chemists, to reconnoissance the terrain, to help in some way there. I would like to know the opinion of the Minister of Foreign Affairs whether it might not be appropriate for the future within international institutions to establish something that we can call a tribunal, an independent tribunal, as we know from various postwar zones where some issues have been dealt with, whether genocide or postwar situations, the division of different countries, so war crimes have been dealt with before, for example, the Hague Tribunal, whether the Minister of Foreign Affairs would not consider it effective if it were created within the international community, and now I do not know specifically under what, whether under the UN or directly under the Security Council or under whom, some independent international tribunal, which would be focused solely and solely on the use, misuse, manufacture of chemical weapons, because according to all international conventions, the use of chemical weapons is always what will lift from the chair of a civilised society. I think it's perfectly okay that a civilized society against these crimes, whoever's committing them, doesn't shut up. On the other hand, the doubt about who used the chemical weapons - chlorine, sarin, novice - will always be there. Let's not pretend that we don't all feel that we're in a deep information war, where one side of information doesn't always overwhelm the other. It works both ways. In this respect, let us be objective, not just one side of this. If, in fact, there is a solution for the future, and that is what I am interested in, it was not the establishment of this tribunal, if it would not be necessary, it would be desirable for the Czech Republic, which, thanks to the fact that it still has its representation in Syria, we have there Mrs Filipi, who works not only for the Czech Republic, but also for the EU and the North Atlantic Alliance, so that we would initiate something like this, because I think that this is exactly the diplomatic field where the Czech Republic could show that it is a country that will not only judge things objectively, but also in this way will show its pro-Western orientation and offer this as assistance alongside other things that may occur and which, of course, could change that Saturday, and in this respect, I think it would be more from the Ministry of Defence than the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So to sum up, it's closed. As chairman of the Committee on Defence, I offer joint discussions with the Committee on Defence. Maybe if the Security Committee wants to join us, colleagues. My colleagues and I were at the IRS this morning. And we can still meet this week and say something about it, say something about it in the regime, so that what the secretary here said really does, so that we don't get into the situation, that in some of the unhappy statements, we will continue to step on it and dissect it in order to cause even more damage in the international field. So that's the first offer. And the second offer, or, rather, the question of whether something like that would be effective, is that tribunal that would deal with the abuse, the use of chemical weapons in the world, as we have seen in recent weeks or months. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u13	Thank you. I would like to point out that any proposals then need to be recited in a detailed debate. And now, with a factual remark from the first Minister of Foreign Affairs, I have Stropnický.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just really telegraphically. I welcome to a large extent the proposal that has been made here. It's kind of like mine, actually. And I'm not saying that because he looks like him because he's good, but he's just rational. Without any sarcasm or irony. We've been told to shine and drown, and this goes beyond these two responsibilities. That is a very bold plan, but I think we need to sit down and contribute to the solution. I am not one of those who think that the Czech Republic is supposed to have some megalomanic ambitions in foreign policy beyond, say, its medium size within European countries. But I don't think those ambitions are supposed to be minimalist either. So talk about putting your heads together and coming up with an idea - I'm very up for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u15	Thank you. I will ask Mr Benešík for the facts he was before.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm not gonna tell the minister we're supposed to shine and drown. In any case, I think that our unique position thanks to our embassy in Damascus is predestining us to offer these capacities both from an informational point of view and from a technical background for trying to contribute, I think rather crucially, to resolving the situation in Syria. That's the first thing. I assume that if we are discussing the statement of the Secretary of Defense, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister about the situation in Syria and the attack of allies on the military and research facilities of the Asadův regime, I assume that they have used the information our embassy has. That their statements were consulted with one another, and that's what I'm clinging to. Because the position of the Czech Republic through our embassy is largely exclusive. And I thought that if I read the comments of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence and, after all, the Prime Minister at the first stage, that this information, the consultation of our representation in Damascus - I repeat again, which is the only one from the whole of the European Union, as far as I know, is based on the only one of the entire North Atlantic Alliance - is based on. And one more thing. It was said here that illegal migration in connection with the conflict in Syria - please here we approach such a not entirely accurate one, I would say rather an incorrect discussion, which is being heard in the Czech Republic. The fact that we have illegal migration here in Europe is no doubt about it. But if someone is objectively fleeing the war, then he is an asylum seeker, or an asylum seeker, rather than an illegal migrant. It's legal to flee the war and ask for help somewhere else. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u17	Thank you, too. Now I have the first one with the factual rapporteur, Mr Zaorálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u18	Thank you. I just wanted to turn against the fact that it's all about some light and drowning. I welcome what has been said here from the mouth of Mrs Černochová. The question of what's next in Syria seems absolutely fundamental to me. And that's no one, my friends, to shine and drown. What was the failure of what happened a year ago? That nothing followed after the tomahawk attack. And you're asking what kind of follow-up was that? So if you use that power, you're supposed to use it for something. For example, to get Russia, Iran, to the negotiating table, to act in Geneva. Or just to make something out of it. And what I'm saying here, my friends, is that nothing happened at all. And what I'm worried about is that nothing's gonna happen right now. Do you understand? That the missiles were used, but nothing will follow. So the question, what happens next, what do we do next, that's absolutely appropriate. And I'm gonna say the rest - 'cause I don't think I have time now, do I? [[You have one more minute.]] One minute. So, you know, I'm even gonna say something very provocative here. I'm afraid that narrowing the problem to chemical weapons isn't happy either. It's more of a token of our desperation. Do either of you think barrel bombs are less horrible? Or do you think torture chambers are a better thing than chemical weapons? Or that normal artillery bombing - if you saw the consequences, I don't think you could say it's better than using chemical weapons. This is merely a simplification of the matter so that we have something to grab on to in a situation where we de facto do not have a strategy. So I know it sounds very provocative, but I think that limiting ourselves to chemical weapons is an example of the fact that there's something we're able to describe, and yet, my friends, in analysis, as we've already said today, you're never able to make a hundred percent record. When I look into the past, we never did it. So the reality is that the point is - I repeat what Mrs Černochová said - for God's sake, what do we want to do next? That's what we're talking about. And that should also be the Czech policy for the future. We should push for the next step. Not just throwing tomahawks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u19	Mr Foldyna will follow and then Mr Hájek will follow with fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u20	Thank you for the point of fact, Mr President. I would lean towards what Mrs Černochová said here, and I think it's the right initiative. I would like to say that I remember 1999, when the Czech Government, the Government of Social Democracy, brought this country into NATO on 12 March and 24 March, contrary to international law, contrary to the Washington Treaty, NATO began to bomb Yugoslavia. Friends, we've gotten into this situation of social democracy too. I am perfectly aware of the very difficult situation for Mr. Prime Minister in the resignation of Babiš. At that time, Mrs Albrightová kneeled to the Czech government, and the Czech government also agreed to fly American planes and NATO planes across our territory. However, the Czech government then initiated the Czech-Great Initiative, which became a draft for the Kuman Treaty, which closed the bombing. I'm just sensing that you've been under some kind of pressure. Oh, please, we're still discussing some things in detail here, but there's not one fundamental thing that we're discussing. International law has been violated. Either that international law applies, either the Washington Treaty applies or it doesn't, and then we can't be surprised that such excesses take place in the world. I would like the Czech Government to insist that international law be applied and that the Washington Treaty should apply to the NATO Pact. If there is an attack on a country here, because the information that President Macron has - and I don't know what information the Czech Government has - but if it is the information that appears in France that flies on YouTube, that is very weak information to defend violations of international law. So I would like us to take a look at what Mrs Černochová said here. Because I think this initiative would take from our government... This international situation would deserve this. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u21	Thank you, too. Now, with Mr Hájek's factual remark, and then we would move on to the written applications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u22	Mr President, fellow Members, I think this is the first time we have been discussing a situation abroad during this parliamentary term. In the last parliamentary term, we have discussed the situation in Ukraine several times. And my insight from both Ukraine and Syria is that the information we have is not enough to give us a clear opinion. That is why I agree with my colleague Černochová here to discuss this with the committee, where we can close the committee and really hear information that we can't get here. Mr Kalousek can say that the situation is not black and white. I remember in the last parliamentary term when they used to walk around here with pancakes zachrat Savčenko, she almost kept a hunger strike here, and today this lady was accused of preparing an assassination in March. And I do not know if she wanted to use the dagger that Mr Kalousek gave her through the President. I really don't know. So it really isn't black and white, and I'm just wondering if the current Prime Minister was in that situation, supporting Mrs. Savčenková, giving her a dagger that would happen today. He'd be jumping all the way to the ceiling, maybe they'd still have to take the floor up, as my colleague Kalousek would do. So much for foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u23	Thank you, too. Mr Luzar is now on the table for a proper debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also take part in this debate, which is certainly nutritious, because how many times will you learn in one day that there is no danger of a serious international situation, and the next day you will learn that war has almost broken out? Maybe it's surprising, or are we so indifferent that we've gotten used to it, that some states simply agree to use their military superiority and send tomahawks just like that, somewhere on some targets, and that they think they're doing good? Such - and I apologize deeply for the expression - benevolentness can lead to very serious events that can then happen. The latest fashion - making policy on Twitter, writing a short text on limited space, and based on that, analysts around the world evaluate what is really going on, that's the worst thing that could have happened to us in this media time. The lack of information or information provided in such a shortcut, and unfortunately, the world's largest armed power and its representative are doing this, and with great joy it does so without perhaps overseeing the consequences of its activities in the world, brings us to the brink of a possible disaster. What if those Rus took that tweet seriously and started returning fire to where the tomahawks came from? What if the direct communication of the soldiers who were warned that something was wrong failed? We never know. We're just a small state tied up in alliance contracts... [[Note on the situation in the surrounding area:]] You've gone too far. ... bound by alliance treaties to stand in one line against - and I ask, against whom? And I want to draw attention to one thing. There is a criminal code, part two, head eight, part two, section 407 of Czech law, which says: Inciting offensive war. He who publicly encourages the attack war to be fought by the Czech Republic, promotes such a war or otherwise supports war propaganda will be punished by imprisonment for up to five years. - Even preparation is criminal. I ask: have we not fulfilled this section 407, here in many respects, when we have, in ignorance or in willingness to support our allies in NATO, performed and talked about how good it is that something will finally be done forcefully and clearly? I think it's just that someone here is questioning the UN Security Council that they're questioning these international institutions at all and they're saying that "they haven't been doing anything for a long time, so what are we going to wait for, what are we going to fight about with these diplomats, because we have those tomahawks, we're going to fit them in there, and then it's going to happen..." Isn't this also the approval and support of such an admonition? These questions come to mind, and I ask myself, why couldn't the attack wait one day, when the organization that exists in the world, which is called the Chemical Weapons Ban Organisation, should have gone to Syria, should have gone to the Duma and examined - and I stress, it is an independent international organization - to investigate whether or not the chemical attack occurred there. Why didn't it wait? Why did the United States make a resolution when they wanted to form their group and not use this international organisation to investigate it? Our media might have a little debt here, too, because only the first information went that Russia vetoed the establishment of the special group that was supposed to go there at the initiative of the US, but it forgot to add that the US vetoed the international organization. Eventually, they went there, and the day before they were supposed to go there, the tomahawks fell. Let's think about the situation we're in today. We're in an ad post situation where we didn't even know that something was going on, that something was going on, and our government was standing in front of it to react somehow. The reaction was inconsistent and uncertain, according to naturel of individual respondents. I get that. I don't want to be in their shoes, though many of us find ourselves in that skin when we have to respond to intrusive questions from journalists about things that we don't know so much about or are not sure about. The question is, how did the Prime Minister react later? He himself said that he had defined himself, in a certain way he defined himself in relation to the general opinion of Europe, or he spoke of the fact that the Europe, which had reacted in some way, maybe - now in my opinion - reacted very rashly. I looked at the process of explaining in the national parliaments of Great Britain and France, which their representatives did before their MPs, because they, without the approval of their parliaments, sent military forces into the territory of a foreign state and committed international aggression. Let's just say that. And they justified it. And I would expect them to say: we refer to the secret message 2735 of our secret services, which they prove, we refer to the British MI6 report, that this and that. No! Why couldn't they do that? Because, of course, Members have the right in their control roles, and as has been said here, we in the Czech Parliament also have committees that can deal with this, to see how much relevant the information is, according to which the government decides. They'd rather appeal to YouTube, some unofficial news. French President Macron has appealed to an analysis by some specialists based on a video broadcast on YouTube, which he has done, among other things. Czech media also took place, and this is what he considers to be proof. Contrary to that, however, Asadův's promoters have turned and said: here we have dozens of witnesses who prove how the filming took place because that's where these people perform. And now we're standing before telling ourselves where the truth is, if we're even able to get the truth. What we can't answer is why the tomahawks were flying. That's where it said it. Why? Show ourselves we can do this? There's been a war conflict in that area for many years. The conflict of war is based on a religious basis. Saudi Arabia and Iran are the main triggers of tensions in the region. Without discussion, yes. These two powers have long and long created a very strong tension between themselves based on a religious basis historically. Turkey, with its ambitions and a strongly ambitious president, is now entering this. There was talk of a Geneva trial. These imaginary meetings that took place in Geneva, creating the appearance of a community in Syria, which, as one man or one community fighting against the regime, proved to be lost time because this community does not exist. It was artificially created from the outside. To appeal to the Geneva process in the present situation and to ask for its renewal is rather an embarrassing attempt to invoke perhaps some kind of procedure or some excuse for what we are doing or rather what we have not done. When you remember how things were going at first, the very clear condemnation of Asad and all those against him are those administrative democrats who fight against the evil regime before those democrats became the Islamic state before those democrats became bloodthirsty and slitting up in the live transmission of poor civilians. Suddenly, the West responded. [[15.50 hours]] There's always a question here: does the target justify the means? I'm asking you: does the target justify the means? And here I have to say, we often do this. Now let's try to get back to what we're facing. We, the Czech Republic, are an integral part of NATO's armed pact. Here we say that NATO is an organization that acts in harmony, in unity, and protects our security. How, then, is it possible that three states will as if pull themselves out of this unity and start their own war? And if it was just one state out of this group, he pulled himself out of control and started his own war, how will we respond to it, bound by the NATO treaty? If he starts losing - it doesn't have to be that the strongest, the most powerful, and the most powerful gets off the chain, but what if someone smaller gets off the chain? Will we go to him without examining the reasons for this, to help under the treaties that bind us? According to many here, yes. After all, we will not question the integral sovereignty and integral common practice of the community to protect us. It may be demagogy, but let us try to understand what we often talk about and how we often progress. Everything America says because it's the strongest and the greatest, she'll probably be right, because it's better to be wrong about the strong... And I'm not paraphrasing old comments here. I'll get back to the beginning. It is clear here that the target justifies the means. We can do the committee here, we can do the committee meeting together. But if we don't have the relevant data, we can't trace any results. We're just gonna argue about it there based on who has a sense of things and things in the world. The relevant facts may be able to provide us with an organization that is currently controlling the proliferation of chemical weapons in Syria. If they were even there. I have no doubt there are chemical weapons. I don't know in whose hands I can't imagine who has all these chemical weapons, though recognized, and even the United States of America has acknowledged that Bashar Bašár-Asad's government has liquidated these chemical weapons. There are protocols. Those huge warehouses that were physically there, no doubt about it either, were destroyed under the supervision of international organizations. But how many kilograms, tens of kilograms traveling somewhere, have been stolen, possibly. from the war conflict that works next door -- and now we're talking about Iraq -- it's available or it's possible. How they got there somewhere to trigger these other follow-up actions, I don't think we're gonna be able to find out. Therefore, we should all be very careful about what we are doing and what steps we are taking when suddenly someone is turning to us, possibly. when we stand before how to react. And I will return only to the one thing that remains in international law - the UN Security Council, the UN Security Council, the UN as an institution, the international body that has been created since the greatest and most terrible war so far to prevent another war. We may be underestimating this body for its inaction, maybe we'll be swearing at the organ that we just want a radical solution and he's not able to do it fast at the moment. But there are world examples, and there are examples in history that this body has responded correctly and in time. Let's just give time to international politics and look for the truth, or at least try to objectify the truth that we're getting into in that information world right now. And that's the biggest problem of the time. Just don't use the Twitter to communicate serious information, Prime Minister. If you have the opportunity to speak to the President of the United States of America, advise him not to use Twitter for major international events. There's just nothing worse than using one-toned messages by electronic media to control the world. Then we can look forward to something that no one here wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u25	I, too, thank you, and now I have with priority the President of Radim Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u26	Thank you for the floor. Our esteemed colleagues, the Dear Government, the attack on Syria and the circumstances under which it was carried out, reminded us with absolute rawness and confirmed the situation in which the Czech Republic found itself. The Czech Republic is in a situation where there is really no security and foreign policy. It's useless to kid yourself around here. If they decide in Brussels, London, Paris, Washington, the Czech Republic will do anything, even if it means self-destructing. Let's not make any illusions. As well as the phrase by Mr. Stropnický, we could hear on Saturday morning the sentence that war between superpowers began and that probably the Czech Republic and the Czech nation will fulfil their historical role in the new war in Europe. It is necessary to ask ourselves a fundamental question: is it in the interests of the Czech Republic to be blindly and headlessly subject to the interests of the European Union and NATO in actions contrary to international law which do not have the mandate of the Security Council and which are based on information provided by Islamist groups? I don't think so. Let's say who the democratic opposition is. Not the democratic opposition here in Parliament, as it is called, but the democratic opposition in Syria. They're Islamists, they're organizations like the Sword of Islam or Al-Qaeda. This is our media and policies called the democratic opposition in Syria, which is fighting the Bashar Bašár-Asad system. Our movement is promoting a referendum that would enable citizens to express their views on NATO membership and the European Union. I am not saying this because I would advocate hasty, unthinkable political and international political action. We defend the referendum because we want everyone to see that there are over 10 million citizens living here in the Czech Republic who have a sovereign right to decide their fate, that they are not serfs, Brussels, Washington, or anywhere else, that they are people who have the right to decide their destiny and the fate of their country. In September 1938, Zdeněk Štěpánek declared that the Western powers had thrown us overboard. On Saturday, Minister Stropnickýý told us on behalf of his government that they could throw us in the hell of the world war at any time and still want us to applaud it. We are experiencing an era of globalization and global changes in values, an era in which the concept of a nation is beginning to be considered a dirty word. This is a very dangerous situation for our nation, because it ceases to be in the interests of those who want the global world of concentrated power, maximized profits. On the contrary, immigration crises and great war are one way to achieve such a world of global power. Our movement demands a return to international law. We want a clear guarantee that the Czech Republic will start re-establishing its own security and foreign policy and will act consistently in these areas in the interests of its citizens. Before I finish, allow me to propose a resolution to which I will return in a detailed debate. It is a very simple resolution, for example. Me and maybe my colleagues won't even think about supporting him. The motion for a resolution is: 'We call on the Government of the Czech Republic to support only military actions in foreign policy, which are taking place in accordance with international law'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u27	Thank you, too. If necessary, please refer the motion for a resolution to the rapporteur. And now I have Mr Benešík here with priority rights, but since President Bartošek is here, I am not sure that this can be applied. Could this be considered the club's position? [[The answer's off the microphone.]] Then I'll move you. I have other people here. I'll move you. It won't take long. Then I had Mr. Luzar here, but he spoke a moment ago and I don't see him here. So I'll skip. Mr Peksa and then Mr Benešík. Please put the MP on the mic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I did not originally intend to do so, but I will respond to my colleague Luzar through the President. There were a few such inaccuracies. First of all, I would say that, as far as I know, the Security Council resolution was not being guided by the United States. A total of three resolutions were voted there in that meeting on Monday. The first received 12 out of 15 votes, the second 6 out of 15 votes and the third 5 out of 15 votes, with nine votes needed to adopt such a resolution, i.e. the two Russian resolutions, which were then proposed, did not receive sufficient support. Secondly, I would like to point out that, as far as I am aware, the Chemical Weapons Ban Organisation does not have access to the city of Douma at the moment, because according to Russia and Syria, the access route is mined, so international inspectors cannot get there. Which gets me to the point of the problem, because I think that the Syrian crisis is basically a symptom of the general situation that our international structures just don't work. The Security Council is unable to adopt any resolution to resolve this. An organization for the ban on chemical weapons, which, by the way, is interesting, has no right to identify the culprit in the investigation. This was a matter of dispute between the Rus and the Američan at the hearing because the Američan wanted to be able to identify the culprit, while the Rus wanted to leave it in the hands of the Security Council. I think this is a long-term problematic situation and that the Czech Republic and, in general, the entire international community should strive to set the mechanisms and processes in such a way that this cannot happen again. In general, the Prime Minister here made such a reference to the European Union. I would like to point out that yes, while we have a common foreign and security policy, the problem is that it requires a unanimous decision by all Member States, so there is quite a big problem to agree on, and then we are running into the fact that some Member States are acting on their own. As far as this is concerned, Great Britain, France and the United States were active in Syria. The problem is that it was essentially based on the initiative of their governments. Parliaments have not been consulted. Which brings us to what our colleagues have already mentioned. We have a problem in some way ensuring democratic control of these things. It was very much discussed here at the beginning of the debate in connection with both the Prime Minister and the Minister and with the Minister in resignation. The problem is that the government does not have a resignation and act, although Parliament has not had the opportunity to comment on this. I think that, in order to preserve our parliamentaryism, and not just ours, we should push for decisions in these crisis situations to be able to rethink parliaments, so that the government doesn't deal with all this executively, because then we could actually get into the situation that has occurred here. I think that fundamentally is wrong if the US president is calling it an attack on Syria and, at the same time, the Russian ambassador in Lebanon announces that they will shoot back at the Američan. This is simply a situation from the point of view of the kind of homo sapiens bad and we should prevent it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u29	Thank you, too, and now please, Mr Benešík. Please, it's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u30	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I guess I'll just be forced to summarize, at least in part, what my previous speaker Mikuláš Peksa says. The core of the problem is exactly how and by whom chemical attacks will be investigated. Because the organization that the Russian Federation and the Asadův regime are so basing on and which is delayed from their work and is supposed to get there in the best conditions on Wednesday, which is almost two weeks after the attack and of course a lot of things can otherwise be either natural factors or actively removal, she can only say whether or not chemical weapons have been used and cannot investigate who used them. That's the big problem. And if we're fighting in the breasts here and we're saying there's a diplomatic solution, I have the impression that the Russian Federation on the Security Council, I think, has blocked the diplomatic solution six times, and now all of a sudden it's called diplomatic solutions. So the goodwill must be on both sides. And Mr. Foldyn. Yes, it was the government of social democracy that agreed to bomb Serbia. But I would add that it was not as much a government of social democracy as its then Prime Minister and today's President Miloš Zeman, who actually allowed this in very vague consultations. I have a question mark on this bombardment. I have a big problem with that. And it's interesting that this is still attributed to Václav Havel, who may have used the term, and it's also about the disputation, the humanitarian bombing. Maybe he used it, maybe he didn't use it, but the president and then Prime Minister Zeman agreed to the humanitarian bombing. As for today's debate, I repeat one thing again. There have been murders in Syria, including children and women, for several years. And it's interesting that precisely controlled attacks by allies that didn't kill anyone until these provoked today's debate. Why wasn't it before? Why wasn't it like this before? With regard to the Prime Minister's remarks that the situation should have been dealt with, for example, by the European Marshall Plan, excellently. Take a look at the KDU-ČSL website. We proposed this in 2015. I don't know who suggested it in front of us. I don't think it's anybody. Nobody really cared at the time. And we have also come up with a Czech concrete initiative that we would like to increase our development and humanitarian aid, not CZK 100 million in the budget at that time, and the then Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister, today's prime minister, was not in favour of this. We are glad that he has changed his mind that the YES movement has changed his mind, and we believe that we will continue to follow the pattern and know-how of KDU-ČSL in this direction, because it is not just some altruism to try to solve problems outside our country and outside Europe, but it is a normal investment. It's cheaper than bringing the problem to the Czech Republic. And I think this will be understandable for a citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u31	Thank you, too. At this point, I have Mr Holík's point of order. And then I don't have any more applications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on the words of my colleague Benešík, whom, among other things, I very much appreciate. Yes, this situation that has arisen needs to be addressed. There are two conflicting opinions. Chemical weapons were used, or they weren't, and instead of a team of experts coming in and really solving it, we were dealing with it by shooting rockets. So I ask - I use an old Latin proverb: Cui bono?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u33	Yes. Thank you. I have here with the priority right of Mr. Vice-President Filip. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u34	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I, in my introductory words, before we adopted this item, said that there is a need to deal with the issue with the balance sheet and after the meeting of the House's institutions before ending this point in plenary. We have heard one of the motions for a resolution, and I, in a detailed debate, will suggest another. But we must realise that we are discussing things that have a broad international legal dimension. I will answer my colleague Benešík, but especially to all of you, as I said. Yes, Barack Obama's administration focused on so-called. The Islamic State, and there's evidence to it. In fact, the fanatical plan to support the Islamic State was published in 2016 when the DIA secret service report was discussed in the US Congress, where the Islamic State considered the Islamic State a strategic tool in 2012. And before ever becoming famous after the conquest of the Iraqi Mosul, they assumed that it would be possible to use the Islamic State against the legitimate - I note the legitimate - regime of Bashar Bašár-Asad. I remind you that Bašár Asad was elected in all elections in Syria, and no one could question that. The elections took place if they were in the whole territory, and if the entire territory could not be controlled, at least on that residual territory, so that the Baas party, the Arab side, was the winner of the elections. And it is about whether it is our right as the Czech Republic, citizens of the Czech Republic, to speak to whom Syrian citizens choose to represent themselves. I remind you again how I like to do it, Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 the international pact that the regime elects its own citizens and that it is not the right of others to intervene. The problem was that the DIA's secret service plan was actually such that the Islamic State was a suitable help to isolate and overthrow the Bashar Bašár-Asad regime. And if it's the government's secret service, then it's the government's intention. This is therefore an illegitimate intention from the point of view of international law. And he admits cooperation with the Islamic State and the former Ambassador to Syria, Robert Ford, and those declassified documents are no conspiracy theories. The Islamic State has been thinking about how to use Iraq - and I hope that the situation in Iraq is already stable and that elections will take place there in May or June. Al-Qaeda was the driving force of the Syrian opposition, and Barack Obama said that the US is on the opposition side, and strengthening the anti-Assad struggle is the main precondition for weakening the Asadův government, especially in the east of Syria. And it was about the status of the Gulf countries and Turkey. The Islamic State, on the recommendation of the DIA, was to declare security zones according to the Libyan model, i.e. According to a model that has been overthrown contrary to the UN Security Council Resolution on the no-fly zone of the regime in Libya. All of this, please, has sparked the Arab Spring and a huge movement not only in Europe, but in the world. Just the whole migration crisis was caused by the break-up of individual states, with the fact that these states, until then stable, have fallen apart, as is the case in Libya. I don't know if you know who to deal with for the Czech Republic in Libya, I don't know because I don't know that the current Libyan government controls the entire territory of former Libya. This movement was, in essence, brought to the attention of the Italian governments since 2011, including at European level, at least at a meeting which was also attended by Czech Members and Senators, so-called. Mediterranean initiatives, no one responded. When this huge movement took place, which, of course, meant the great migration crisis that some welcomed, others rejected and which became subject not to political but to public debates almost every place from the pub, forgive me, fourth category to luxury hotels where foreigners who visit the Czech Republic eat more. What is important from this point of view. If the Czech Republic stands up as the legal successor to the founder of the United Nations for international law, the UN Charter, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and respect for this international law, or if we stand up for trusting our allies, we will not investigate anything and say that this is the right thing to do. I think, maybe it's because I'm unbelievable, that it's better to verify than to believe blindly. And to ask for evidence and to make decisions based on evidence. I didn't see any evidence. Not even the ones who should have gotten it have seen it. I don't even have any proof that the fight for Syria is taking place precisely because huge oil reserves are being located on Syria's territory, which are larger than Saudi Arabia's current reserves. I've read it several times, even in renowned magazines that know something about it, but I don't have any proof of it, because I'm sorry, I didn't even look for it, except I read it. But I can't rule out that in the current struggle, or if you want a war in quotation marks, it can't be the reason everyone is fighting over this territory. [[Can he?]] And all I blame those who dispute this territory for not respecting the Charter of the United Nations, international pacts, international law, and usurping the right to speak to those who will rule in Syria. Why can't it be left to the Syrian Arab Republic citizens? Why they support financially, materially the United States of America - and I found the evidence in several newspapers, I borrowed the Washington Post from 2016, so much my assistant is able to look it up, and there Barack Obama says before the US Congress that there really is a need to increase spending for the opponents of Asadův' regime. Reuters received a witness statement, according to which Turkey, another NATO member state, with a genuinely Muslim-brother government through its secret service at least last January - I quote from Reuters, was therefore in January 2015 - handing arms to the Syrian jihadists. While the Turkish prosecutor considers the arming of terrorists to be a total massacre of law, President Erdogan insists that it was just humanitarian aid and anyone who claims otherwise wants to defamate his government. [[16.20 hours]] I don't think we're supposed to question this information from Reuters. All I'm saying is that if we are not to enter foreign rights and maintain our own dignity, we are to preserve the nature of a state that respects international law, we cannot decide without evidence. We can't afford to just say "we believe what he or she says" and get involved, forgive me, in disputes that are then used by being said, that's the majority who have decided... Yes, I think it was right here in some speeches before me that the Security Council decided that eight states opposed the resolution of the Russian Federation, that is true. I'm not questioning that. No resolutions have been adopted. Even no resolution after the attack on Syria was vetoed because the majority in the Security Council made it possible that no one received the necessary nine votes, including five permanent members of the Security Council. That wasn't even possible. After all, those attackers knew that when they were three members, three permanent members of the Security Council, that this could not be achieved, so no veto was needed, whereas one week earlier, representatives in the United Nations Security Council vetoed each other in the investigation. And I note that a committee of inquiry on an ad hoc chemical attack is a mockery of international law, because if we have an authoritarian organization that deals with the control of chemical and biological weapons and is set up to control it all over the world, and it is not supposed to be allowed there, it has been vetoed, so I ask what was the point of the United States of America's veto that this organization was not allowed there. Now we're talking about he can't enter because there's a war operation going on, and there's no free access to that road. But that's just the result, that's not the reason. And now I do not defend either party, I am a politician in the Czech Republic, I defend the interests and dignity of the Czech Republic's representation in international relations. Why should we blindly trust someone and not demand that they ask us to stand up for him, not ask them to prove to us that we have the right to stand up for him? All that is certain - all that is certain - that the armies of three countries, the United States of America, Great Britain and France, carried out an act of aggression under the resolution of the Security Council, quoted here in 1974, meant that by an air strike on the territory of a foreign state, without attacking anyone in its vicinity, the Syrian Arab Republic attacked this state. It's an act of aggression. And he deserves a conviction. Of course, it is true that he will not be convicted, because the three permanent members of the Security Council have committed something contrary to their position. And let's get back to the construction of the Security Council. Why is it the United States of America, Great Britain, France, the Russian Federation as the successor state of the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China? Because these states formed the strongest anti-fascist and anti-Nazi coalition in World War II. And we, as Czechoslovakia in 1945, were involved in initiating or co-founding the United Nations, which, after more than 50 million deaths in World War II, said that no such conflict should be repeated. But it's been a long time since the war. Some like to question the horrors of World War II. They're questioning the Holocaust. They question other things. And we can't question that, because if we start with something like this, we can get into a spiral when there will be a military conflict again, which will not be a local one, but will be a conflict of international or global one. But the weapons currently held by individual states are such that they could destroy the world several times. These aren't conventional weapons that individual states had here in 1939, not even in 1941. Those weapons after August 1945, and there are many more of them than they were back then, are truly capable of destroying life on this planet. And we cannot afford to stand on the side of those who, without evidence, support something that is, under international law, an act of aggression. And the second thing we cannot afford is to contribute and stand on the side of those who question international law. Because the failure of the Security Council to reach a consensus is precisely what challenges the very basis of international law. He is questioning the only authoritarian organization that can say that the attack is legitimate or not legitimate. And when colleagues and co-workers asked here, "cui bono?" - who's it for the benefit?"how is it possible that three states, permanent members of the Security Council, will block another Security Council's resolution from another time that this is an act of aggression? Who does it serve? Certainly not China, nor Russia, not even Bolivia, nor Kazakhstan, which, among other things, abstained from voting. This does not serve the Czech Republic either. And I note that our responsibility, the constitutional pledge that we have made here, that we swear on the Constitution and respect for laws and international treaties, makes us believe that one of the laws that is in force here is the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, that it is not our right to agree to aggression against another sovereign state, that it is not our right to enter into whom the Syrian people choose to lead. It is as if we say that the Syřan can choose who will rule in the Czech Republic. Or that it's for the Afghánec or the Libyjec to choose, or that it's for the Egypťan to choose because they've immigrated here. Do you intend to disrupt our constitutional system? I don't. And I'm convinced that whoever drops to say, despite his constitutional promise, "I trust our allies and I don't want any proof," don't be mad at me, so he embezzled from that constitutional promise. [[16.30 hours]] I repeat: I don't believe, I verify. Once I've verified that something like this has happened, I'm willing to say that international military intervention is needed. But now I see no reason why I should trust that side or that side. I wasn't there, and I'm not going. When, for the first time in my life, I experienced a war in Europe after that unprecedented illegal attack by the United States of America on the former Yugoslavia, I couldn't stand it, and I went there. I saw bridges torn down in New Sada, I saw a bombed radio in Belgrade. Among other things, the radio broadcasted in all the languages of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, including Gypsy, I note. That's what we saw. But we've been told here that ethnic cleansing is taking place and that there's no way he wouldn't give in to the legitimately elected president. And when I was standing on the bridge like a living shield, I saw that these people wanted to make their own decisions. And even under duress, they made decisions about themselves. For a long time, they will surely remember who bombed their homes and why they do not want to enter a pact that says it is defensive, but that in the end it is the only pact that attacked Europe and, after so many years, it has basically waged an aggressive war in Europe. I will leave aside for a detailed debate a motion for a resolution on this matter. But I am already saying that I would like to call on the Government of the Czech Republic, even though it is in demise, to honor international law and to always stand on the side of those who oppose that international law, even though it is the most militaryly powerful in the world, even if it is economically among the most powerful eight states in the world. I want to be proud of my country and my government as a citizen of the Czech Republic. And I don't think I can be proud of those who bow, and forgive me, without proof they say they trust someone. Blind faith led us to Munich 1938 on March 15, 1939, and it also led us to the fact that in 1968 we did not have that sense of sovereignty anymore and we had to have foreign soldiers here. And if anything after 1989, if the citizens wanted something after 1989, we shouldn't be in any military pact and never have another foreign military base on our territory again. This also proved to be a demand of almost 80 percent of the population when some here tried to force a radar base into Brd. I saw the people who went to the demonstrations. And I remember well that this was contrary to the interests of most citizens of the Czech Republic in favour of voting. Let us not repeat these mistakes. I am convinced that it is up to our will whether we are to receive our constitutional promise or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u35	I also thank the Vice-President. Before we move on, I'm gonna read some notes. So Mr Koten apologizes to us for working reasons within 18 hours, Mr Hnilička apologizes to us within 17 hours for working reasons, Mrs Radka Maxová apologises to us from 15.30 to 18 hours and Mr Petr Dolínek apologizes to us within 5 hours for working reasons. At this point, I am given priority rights from Mr. Černohorský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u36	Hello. On behalf of the pirate club, I'd ask for a ten-minute recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u37	If there aren't any counterproposals, I'll put out a ten-minute recess by 4:45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u38	It's 4:45, so break's over. I will ask everyone to calm down and pay attention, we will continue the negotiations. I've got some note first. Minister Martin Stropnický apologizes to us today from 4:30 p.m. to the end of the negotiations for health reasons and Marcela to us today from 6:00 Melková to the end of the negotiations for work reasons. The break is over, so we should continue the negotiations, but we don't have the plaintiffs, so I'm gonna wait to see if... So I'm gonna stop the meeting for five more minutes to resolve the situation. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 16.46 to 16.51 hours.]] The time has passed, I will ask again for peace in the hall and we will continue. I have a note here first. Minister Brabec apologizes to us for working reasons from 17.20 until the end of the negotiations. I would therefore now like to continue with point 69, i.e. the position of the Government of the Czech Republic on events in Syria. I don't have any applications at the moment, so I'm looking around the O.R. to see if there's any results from this meeting or not, or if there's any procedural proposals. I can't see anything, which makes me wonder. If there are no suggestions... [[He's looking around the O.R.]] Is there a proposal yet? There you go. If there are no suggestions... Mrs Černochová reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u39	[[Breathing:]] Colleagues still tune the notes. I would like you to read the proposal before the rapporteur arrives, on which, perhaps, the majority agreement will rule: I. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommends that the Presidents of the Committees on Defence and Foreign Affairs hold joint meetings of these institutions on the issue of current developments in Syria in the presence of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence and their invited guests. [[A meeting with Mr Stanjura.]] First, I understand you should end the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u40	It is possible to read it now, but detailed reading only in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u41	Thank you. So that would be one. The two would be: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommends that the Prime Minister consult the position of the Czech Republic with the presidents of individual political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies in cases of serious events of an international political nature. III. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to make every effort to make maximum use of the capacity of the Embassy of the Czech Republic in Damascus in favour of a long-term peaceful solution to the current situation in Syria, including the involvement of the expert services and the components of our state. Another point on which there was majority agreement is the modified proposal by colleagues from the Pirates: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to support the reform of international institutions towards their greater functionality and efficiency. These are the four proposals on which the majority agreement was held. Other colleagues have proposed other resolutions, which they have also referred to, which will be read separately. Thank you. I would also like to ask, Mr Vice-President, if Mr Zaorálek's foreign committee chairman would still like to add something to that, that this is happening in our agreement. Otherwise, the Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee should be meeting in agreement with the Prime Minister at 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meetings The Chamber of Deputies should move to 10 o'clock, it should start at 10 o'clock, at least this is how we discussed it with the President of the Chamber of Deputies Vondráček and the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Babiš, so that we can act lege artis as a committee, and since the Defence Committee has premises that are called. So we agreed with President Zaorálk that this meeting would be on the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u42	Thank you and we will therefore continue the general debate. I have the first one here with the de facto remark of Mr Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u43	Good afternoon, colleagues, dear government. I have a question for my colleague. I don't know if I got it right. There is an obligation for the Government to consult in cases of serious - and if you can tell me what circumstances - with the party chair. Who will determine what is already serious and what is not yet serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u44	[[Vice-President Pikal agrees with the speech.]] Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It is really just a recommendation from the Prime Minister. I will read it once more: 'to consult the position of the Czech Republic with the presidents of individual political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies in cases of serious events of an international political nature'. We all know that foreign policy is a matter of the government of the Czech Republic. On the other hand, it's certainly useful, and there were premieres who did it, and it's nothing against nothing. Even if someone calls the chair of parliamentary parties on the phone and tells them colleagues, it is happening and that, we have the Security Council of the State, get ready to communicate this matter, that journalists will turn to you, so it is good that those Presidents have this information so that they have it not distorted from the media, so that they can have it directly from the source, i.e. directly from the Prime Minister. It's not an obligation, this would really have to be in the Constitution to make it an obligation. It's a recommendation. And I actually remember what I've been doing in the Chamber of Deputies for a few years, so these things have worked in the past. So it's really just a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u45	Thank you for your clarification, and I now have Mr Kalousek's factual comment here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u46	Thank you. I just wanted to fill in as a memoir, I really couldn't save something like that, but it used to be a good habit for years. In the past, I have been president of the political party twice in this House, so I am not going to be third, and it was common in my day that the Prime Minister, who got into a situation that he had to deal with in the hours, so it was just those opposition party leaders - it was obvious in the coalition, but he called the opposition. At least to ensure some belonging or to avoid hysterical reactions resulting from misunderstandings. I stress that this is more in the interests of the Prime Minister. He did it in his own interest. Not because he felt obliged to those parties, but in his own interest he informed ahead, which is very useful. Perhaps the Prime Minister also understood that when he did not consult with his own ministers that it brought him some communication difficulties, it was good to communicate not only with his ministers but also with the parliamentary party chairmen. It's just fine, and it should sound like a recommendation. What the Prime Minister will do with it is, of course, his decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u47	Thank you, and at this point, we don't have any more applications. So I guess they're following the final words. [[A deal off the mic.]] I shall give the floor to Mr Zaorálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u48	Thank you. Let me once again thank you, Members and Members, for the debate that we have had here. I'd like to explain something to you in conclusion. In fact, I was also asked what happened the four years I worked as Secretary of State. I would like to tell you that as far as the European Union's foreign policy is concerned, I would like to say that we were able to find a consensus in 95 percent. But there was a segment of questions where the consensus was difficult, sometimes almost impossible. And the fact that I wanted us to talk about the Syria issue here has to do with the fact that Syria was the relatively small segment in which it turned out to be, I would almost dare say beyond our powers. That means that I know that even though Europe is acting united here, there are pretty big questions underneath. And what's the point of having a problem? The problem is, on the one hand, that the situation is difficult there and that national ideas about who to deal with simply differed. When I put it quite frankly, the Francouz, the Brit had their partners that they wanted to become part of the future solution, and for me, it was often a question of how real their idea was. I may have met with representatives of the so-called Riyadh group in the past, maybe it tells you something, and when I was talking to these people, which was supposed to be the alternative to Asad, I found out that they were his former tight coworkers, who were actually feeding off one thing - revenge. I find these people barely care if there's an Islamic state in Syria. All they cared about was getting revenge on Asad. When you have these particular experiences, you just start to feel that, unfortunately, even in Europe, sometimes the interests of some states are so strong that it is impossible to reach a single position. It is simply not entirely true that the European Union was unable to enforce more just because we did not have those military divisions there. One of the important reasons was, as I'm saying here, that we weren't able to make a complete deal. And yet I don't share the feeling that here often sounds like the Czech Republic is a country that is small and can't do much. I've always felt that the space to promote opinions was great, that we weren't using it enough. And it was in the case of Syria that we had information that was above average. Our intelligence services - but it is not appropriate to say anything here - I think they have worked and have always had remarkably high-quality information. And we have been respected with these views. So I am convinced that Czech diplomacy should continue with this. Not in promoting some simple solutions, but in promoting that we make the most of the possibilities in that area. And that's why I'm saying it's not enough to broadcast tomahawks. That's what I underlined here today, what Mrs Černochová said. What's next? I'm talking about how he's gonna get involved. I said here a year ago, it failed, it didn't tie up in anything, and I'd hate for this to happen again. I think there's room for that here. I'd like you to support what we agreed on here in the House. That committee meeting is one thing. The second thing is that there we want to continue to promote the Czech Republic, the Czech foreign policy is involved in what needs to be done further. I'm the one who suggested the directions. To use the situation to deal with those regional players, Geneva and other instruments available. We had great opportunities there in terms of promoting humanitarian aid to those areas that no one was able to get into. These are all the things we know and we should continue to do. This resolution talks about it, and I therefore support the resolution to be adopted, and I am also pleased that we are also mentioning the representative office or embassy in Damascus as an institution that we should make the most of in order to promote a long-term and peaceful solution in Syria. Which is what I'm saying, I'd be happy to take these points in this resolution. I hope I've convinced most of you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u49	I thank Mr Zaorálek. Is there an interest in the final word? From the government, because it was the position of the government of the Czech Republic, to say the final word? [[No.]] It's not like that. We will therefore continue with the debate in detail. In a detailed debate, I have the priority right of Mr Miroslav Kalousek, then Radim Fiala's priority right, and Mrs Černochová. [[Mr Zaorálek is reporting for the floor.]] Mr President, that is not possible because I have already summoned my colleague Kalousek. I will then - in order in the detailed debate. So you don't accuse me of violating the Rules of Procedure. [[Mr Kalousek first prefers Mrs Černochová and then Mr Zaoralek. But in the end, he comes to the speaker's desk.]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u50	I think we're gonna make it. I wanted to release my colleague, Mrs Černochová, or Mr Zaorálek, because I wanted to thank you for the initiative to try to agree on at least some points together. So I wanted to sign up for those points that are going to sound and that we've somehow formulated together and read our two beyond them. It will be the other way around, but I think the rapporteur will deal with it. So let me suggest, in addition to being prepared to support the text read by the rapporteur, Mr Zaorálek, two more points...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u51	I understand, of course, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask colleagues who are discussing something other than a resolution on this point to discuss outside the Chamber to keep quiet here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u52	...to suggest two more points. I'm proposing the first one conditionally. I never thought it would sound in the Chamber of Deputies. And this is the point that the Chamber of Deputies is asking the Czech Government to make its foreign policy positions clear and consistent. I always thought it was a matter of course. I'd like to keep thinking that. And if, by the end of the detailed debate, the Prime Minister had spoken and told us whether his position on Saturday was valid or whether his position on Sunday was valid, because they both could not pay, I suggest that this point should not be voted on. If the Prime Minister does not explain this to us, I suggest that this point be voted on because I consider it a national interest for the foreign policy positions of the government to be unambiguous and consistent. And two. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to support credible allies who help the Czech Republic to ensure its security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u53	I thank my colleague Kalousek. Now, therefore, the rapporteur with priority rights and another Radim Fiala, then colleague Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So I would not now act as rapporteur, but as a representative of the group that worked and where we have reached some points on which there might be quite a decent consensus. I'm asking if if if I'm gonna read it now, we're gonna vote on it right now?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u55	No. First, there must be a detailed debate as a whole. So then you have to sum it up, rapporteur. I have given you priority rights precisely because you are the rapporteur, because otherwise I would have to respect Radim Fiala's priority rights. [[I see. So what are you gonna do with me now?]] I would suggest you read it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u56	Okay. So now I'm going to read you the four points that we've sort of agreed on: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommends that the Presidents of the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs hold joint meetings of these institutions on the issue of current developments in Syria in the presence of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence and their invited guests." Another point on which we agreed is this: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommends that the Prime Minister consult the position of the Czech Republic with the presidents of individual political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies in cases of serious events of an international political nature." Then there is the third point: "The Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to make every effort to make maximum use of the capacity of the Embassy of the Czech Republic in Damascus in favour of a long-term peaceful solution to the current situation in Syria, including the involvement of the expert services and the components of our state." And then there is the fourth point: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to support the reform of international institutions aimed at greater functionality and efficiency."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u57	I thank the rapporteur for his proposal. Now, Mr Radim Fiala, my colleague Luzar will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u58	Thank you for the floor. I just want to sign up in a detailed debate to the SPD motion for a resolution, and that is: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to support only military actions in foreign policy, which are taking place in accordance with international law."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u59	Thank you. A colleague of Luzar. Then the Secretary of Defense reports. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u60	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me present here the motion for a resolution of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Czech Government to always act with complete respect for international law and resolutions of the Security Council of the United Nations on foreign policy and defence and security issues." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u61	Thank you. Now, Secretary of Defense Karla Šlechtová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me mention one more thing. We're basically dealing with an ex-post situation here, and let me - on my behalf and on behalf of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who I assume would give me the consent to my statement - to thank all military intelligence personnel, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who have been monitoring the situation for a whole week, 24 hours and a whole week, and that we all called each other at 3:00 a.m., 2:00 a.m., at 1:00 a.m., we monitored the entire attack that was, we kept a cool head. For me personally, perhaps not for you, but for me personally, these people really deserve to be appreciated, because the condition is that the security of Czech citizens has been ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u63	Thank you, Secretary of Defense. I'm asking who else in the detailed debate. Prime Minister. Calm down, please. The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš, has the floor. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u64	Thank you for the floor. I certainly don't have a problem consulting for me, talking on the phone. I think I have also demonstrated this when the President of ODS Fiala approached me and asked for an appointment to exchange views on policy within the European Union. I don't have a problem with that. But I got off here, and I was talking about what Europe was supposed to do. This means that right after President Trump's inauguration, when Mr Obama had already failed to complete the territory, Europe should have asked for the highest-level meeting, at the level of the Security Council of the State (?). Yes, if there's a veto, but why wasn't there a meeting, Trump, Putin, Erdogan and everyone? Europe should have asked for it. The question is, when Kissinger called Europe, who is Europe. Yeah, but I don't want to elaborate on that. I cannot imagine what - I agree with this resolution - I have no problem with what our embassy will coordinate there. I don't know. We simply missed the opportunity, like Europe, to have some peace in that territory. We let it go. And that was only my criticism. That's all. I repeat, the former minister here has suggestions, that's great, but I don't know what our embassy is going to organise there. I can't imagine. But I certainly have no problem with the rest of the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u65	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, with a factual remark. We are still in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u66	Thank you. I'm just making a quick remark. I have made the vote on my first point in the motion for a resolution conditional on a clear and understandable speech by the Prime Minister, so, unfortunately, after this speech, I insist that this point be voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u67	Who else in the detailed debate? I don't see anyone. I am ending the debate in detail. We will therefore vote on individual resolutions, as was the agreement at that meeting at some interruption in the negotiations on that point. I will ask the rapporteur to present the proposals individually or in a block.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u68	Okay, colleagues, I'll try.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u69	Mr rapporteur, I will ask for peace of mind. An extraordinary point has been placed on this meeting by the will of most of the House. It is not an easy point, so I would ask for peace to concentrate on the motions for resolutions. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u70	Well, I would therefore suggest that we gradually vote on all the motions for resolutions that have been read here. I told you there were four points that had quite a match. So the question is, do I have to read the four points and vote them together, or does anyone propose that we vote -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u71	Okay, I'll take that as a procedural proposal, if the four points can be voted on by one vote, en bloc. This needs to be approved in a procedural way, because they are not entirely from one workshop, so to speak. We will decide on the vote on one block in the vote number 73, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 73, from 175 for 81 Members present, against 80. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote individually, so each proposal separately. As presented, please, Mr rapporteur, load them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u72	Yes, so again. First I read the first point. [[Yes.]] "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommends that the Presidents of the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs hold joint meetings of these institutions on the issue of current developments in Syria in the presence of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence and their invited guests."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u73	Okay. Before we vote on him, I'll sign you all out, ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will vote on the proposal in vote number 74 as soon as the number of entries has settled, which has now happened. Initiating vote number 74. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 74, consisting of 171 Members present for 171 Members, against none. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u74	The second point is: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommends that the Prime Minister consult the position of the Czech Republic with the presidents of individual political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies in cases of serious political events."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u75	Yes, we will decide in the vote number 75, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 75, consisting of 171 Members present for 105, against 1. The proposal was also accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u76	There is now the three: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to make every effort to make maximum use of the capacity of the Embassy of the Czech Republic in Damascus in favour of a long-term peaceful solution to the current situation in Syria, including the involvement of the expert services and the components of our state."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u77	Okay. We will decide in the 76 vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 76, from the present 170 for 158, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u78	The fourth point is now: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to support the reform of international institutions aimed at greater functionality and efficiency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u79	Yes, we will decide in the vote number 77 that I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 77 of the Member present 171 for 105, against 4. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u80	I don't know if I would make a mistake right now, but I have here Mr Kalousek's proposal next in line. Is that right? [[Yes.]] So it is as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Czech Government to make its foreign policy positions clear and consistent and credible support for allies who help the Czech Republic to ensure its security." [[Objection in the O.R.: On points!]] So one more point at a time. I will correct it, first I will read only the first point: "The Czech P.S.P. is asking the Czech Government to make its foreign policy positions clear and consistent."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u81	Okay. We will decide in the 78th vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 78 of the Member present 171 for 90, against 2. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u82	The second point of this proposal by Mr Kalousek is as follows: "The P.S.P. of the Czech Republic asks the Government to support credible allies who help the Czech Republic to ensure its security."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u83	Yes, we will decide in the '79 vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 79 of 170 present for 55, against 3. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u84	Now I don't actually know who he was before, if I now have Mr. Fiala's proposal. First of all, Mr Fiala was a Member, so I will read first to Mr Fiala: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to support only military actions in foreign policy that are taking place in accordance with international law."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u85	Yes, we will decide in the 80 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 80 of 170 present for 54, against 3. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u86	Now I would read Mr Luzar's proposal, which reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to always act with complete respect for international law and resolutions of the UN Security Council on foreign policy and defence issues.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u87	We will decide in the 81 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 81 of the 170 present for 35, against 16. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Have all the motions for a resolution been exhausted, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u88	Thank you for the way things went down here. I have the impression, unlike those schnitzels who say that the House is not capable of foreign policy debates, so I believe that today it has proved that we are capable of such sophisticated debates. So thank you again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-001-069.u89	Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you, Mrs Černochová. Allow me, before we proceed, to read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 17.30 to the end of the day, Mr Staněk apologizes, and Mr Elfmark apologises from 17.40 to the end of the day, Mrs Balcarová from 17.40 to the end of the day, and Mrs Dražilová from 17.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. We will continue according to the approved agenda of the meeting. The next item is item 1, which is the Act on Elections. Before I begin it, I propose, at the request of the Senate, to allow a speech by Senator Miroslav Nenutil and Jiří Dienstbier in the Chamber of Deputies. Information on the Senate amendment has been distributed to you in your mail. I will formally vote on the proposal. Who agrees with the performance of the appointed senators? I have begun voting number 82. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 82 of 166 present for 144, against no one. The motion was accepted. I welcome Senator Jiří Dienstbier among us and we will discuss
