ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day, and I am opening the 15th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I welcome you all to. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, at the request of 40 Members. The invitation was sent to you on Friday 7 June of this year and at the same time it was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs. I ask you now to sign up with your ID cards, or to tell me who votes with a replacement card, respectively. requested the issue of a replacement card. At this point, Mr Gazdík and Mr Skopeček will vote with the replacement card No. 7 will vote with the replacement card No. 5. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. As a verifier, I propose that we appoint a Member of Jaroslav Holík and a Member of František Kopřiva. Does anyone else have a proposal to identify the verifiers of this meeting? He doesn't. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. We are voting on the approval of the verifiers of the meeting, Mr Holík and Mr Kopřiva. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number one, registered 128 Members, for 124, against no one. I note that we have appointed members of Jaroslav Holík and František Kopřiva as verifiers of the 15th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that, before the opening of the meeting, they have asked to apologise for their failure to participate in the negotiations by these Members. Jiří Běhounek - foreign travel, Josef Bělica - working reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek - working reasons, Zahradník Birke - working reasons, Stanislav Blaha - health reasons, Marian Bojko - working reasons, Jana Černochová - working reasons, Petr Dolínek - Vildumetzová reasons, Tomáš Hanzel - working reasons, Tereza Hyťhová - health reasons, Ivan Jáč - health reasons, Monika Jarošová - working reasons, Jiří Kobza - working reasons, Martin Koloříbík - Kolovratník Vondrák, Leo Luzar - personal reasons, Přemysl Mališ - health reasons, Květa Matušovská - health reasons, Ilona Mauritzová - health reasons, Patrik Nacher - Radovan Vích, Kateřina Okleštěk - Špičák grounds, Ladislav Okleštěk - working grounds, Zuzana Ožanová - working grounds, Petr Pávek - foreign travel - personal Julius, Pavel Plzák - personal reasons, Ivo Pojezných - Valachová Pojezný - Antonín Staněk - working reasons - working reasons - Ivo reasons, Petr Vrána - working Helena - Sadovský Válková, Petr Příšová Mr Michálek also apologizes from 9 to 9.20 for family reasons, Mr Feri from 9 to 9.15 for work reasons, Mr Benešík from 10 a.m. for work reasons. They also apologize for today's meeting by the following members of the government: Andrej Babiš - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Jiří Milek - working reasons, Robert Pelikán - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Alena Schillerová - working reasons, Martin Stropnický - health reasons, Ilja Šmíd - working reasons, Dan Ťok - working reasons, Vojtěch Adam - working reasons. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 15th meeting, the proposal of which is in the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. Unable to supplement, expand approved program. I also note that the proposal for a programme is: A planned restriction on housing support by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Before we proceed to the vote, President Bartoš has signed up with priority rights. I am merely saying, on the basis of some repeated questions, that, under the Rules of Procedure at this time, only Members with priority rights, among whom, until the general debate is opened, do not belong to those who are chosen by the club to present the club's position. They are only the party chairmen and the members of the parliament and the clubs and the members of the government, of course, and the members of the House's leadership, those who have priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u2	Good morning, colleagues, Mr President. Before I comment on the agenda for this extraordinary meeting, and I believe that the agenda for this meeting will be approved, but what if it didn't happen, I would just like to respond to one thing that we broke up with yesterday, and only very quickly. President Kováčik accused our President, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojta Pikal, yesterday, of composing the names of his colleagues. Vojta Pikal with Mrs. Mrs. Květa Matušovská, roz. Endical, if anyone had any more of a messed-up level in it, he'd apologize for renaming it. We looked into the record because President Kováčik here actually said: and if you continue to do this, Mr Pikal, he spoke through the President. Mr Vojta Pikal spoke not, but the President, by proposing his appeal. Of course, we found this thing... and my computer turned off. [[He's playing part of his laptop last night's performance.]] It was clearly said by Leo Luzar. I wanted to record it in slow motion, but I won't waste your time. I would just like to ask President Kováčik, through the President, if he could respond to this here, because this self-esteem in our country is natural. And the fact that there was just noise in the hall at the moment, or it wasn't heard, so we certainly didn't talk about Mr. Leo Luzar as some kind of Lůzr. And now just for the agenda, if I may. I'll use that word. I hope that this programme will be approved. We have recently been following rather a shrink of rapid proposals, some amendments to laws that affect the very important issues of affordable and social housing. We participated in a number of grémies organized by the Ministry of Regional Development, there are also representatives of MPSV, sometimes the Ministry of Finance. Our Member Olga Richterová even intersected 31. 5. Mr. Prime Minister, how the procedure between the various ministries is coordinated. We don't have that answer yet. [[9.10 hours]] This is where the government is preparing the social housing law. It is basically an investment law that solves the real problem of people who currently have some housing problem, but we still do not have the answer to the question of how this proposal will be synchronized with social work in the region where this is solved, how this will work. We've noticed debates about the construction law. The amendment has entered into force here since the beginning of the year, which is intended to facilitate territorial management, enabled the transfer of competences to municipalities with extended scope without providing them with the relevant personnel equipment. And these changes happen. We're on our way now, and that's why today's meeting is called, a proposal that the state will somehow interfere with the contribution and the housing supplement. I'm gonna say it's a very sensitive thing. Basically at this point, it's the only way the state can intervene in some way into a complex housing situation. There are different numbers here. Indeed, this instrument is not a matter of dealing with trade in poverty, dealing with the fact that someone parasites on these two doses in the sense that it provides overpriced accommodation to people in need, and the State is actually paying for it. The housing allowance is intended to prevent the fall into poverty and to receive it at this time 279,000 households. 52,000 of the poorest households receive the second dose, the housing supplement. This is an important thing that the state can help normal two-person working families to live with dignity, because the prices of the commercial market cannot affect the state. We would like to make a proposal for social housing here, so that this is the platform on which further proposals are made, how to influence these two benefits so that there are no ad hoc responses on the grounds that the government goes to the regions and sees the problems in socially excluded areas. Of course, it's great for me to hear that the government is working to tear the body apart, but our grandmothers already knew that the work of hasty is not valid enough. The amendments to the novels and the follow-up laws, the agendas, they're unconnected. There are some temporary changes, there are some quick patches to the situation. We would really like to ask the government and the ministries concerned to approach this issue comprehensively, so that the new law from Minister Dostálová from her ministry is prepared in accordance with the Ministry of Finance and within this meeting we would like to highlight the following topics and ask the Government to present a comprehensive draft of measures, in one package, for the area of accessible housing, not just social, which will include, in addition to the new Act on social housing, the proposal for amendments to the Act on social services and changes to the Construction Act. Submission of a proposal to finance the construction of social housing, providing information on solutions to IT problems and their readiness for upcoming changes, because we are also... This year the labour authorities were overwhelmed. It's just that if the agenda changes, of course the work is growing, and the authorities can't handle it. For us, it is a very important thing, and we have seen representatives of other ministries at the Grémium to be assured that coordination is under way here, because the ministries have their budgets, and if the Ministry of Regional Development releases money and does not provide for social services financing, we will continue the trend of building some housing for socially weaker citizens, these are moving out there, but any program to get them out of this situation will not work because it is another law, it is another package of money and it must also pass through the House. We ask the most - and I hope that we will come to this - about stopping the senseless, rapid and context-driven amendment of laws. We consider this to be happening at the moment in the matter of benefits paid by the State to the available housing of normal families in the Czech Republic. It's about 300,000 households. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. With priority rights, the lords of Chvojka, Kováčik, Bartošek, Faltýnek are now registered in this order. Chairman Chvojka has the floor. President Chvojka prefers President Kováčik. I'm sure we can accept that. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, thank you to President Chvojka. After all, a person can take it from two directions, like he prefers an elder for example, but no. I wish you a good day, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to respond to Bartoš's colleague with that self-esteem. I welcome self-esteem with anyone. I showed it in advance yesterday because my whole contribution was that if I heard wrong for the noise in the hall, then excuse me, but I dreamed etc. etc. Yeah? So the self-esteem was there in advance, the apology was already there in advance, so, Mr Bartoš, if this is how you are able to take it as an apology, and Mr Pikal, if you are here, if you are able to take it as an apology in advance, it was given in advance, and I think we should set up a more correct relationship between us, not just attack each other. I've always, and I've been here a long time, I don't think personal attacks, personal attacks, or any personal invectors just don't belong here. I never knowingly committed them either. As far as housing is concerned, the KSČM speaks in its programming documents and promotes really here in the Chamber of Deputies, but also in regional, municipal and municipal councils available housing, social housing, small-scale housing. Mainly, you know, we're up to it, and quite often anybody who blames us for our deep pasts, when they were building rabbits and they were really available to everyone, today the rabbit factory costs up to several million and doesn't build too many. So if they return to the hands of the municipal construction of flats by the state, i.e. by all of us, subsidized so that whoever does not reach his income, because everyone is not able to pay several million so that whoever does not reach the ownership of the apartment, on his own apartment, on his own house, so that he has a reasonable chance to gain housing, because according to our court, housing is a fundamental right. Available decent housing in the 21st century in Central Europe is a fundamental human right. Please, that's our approach. As far as this particular subject is concerned, with the club's opinion, my colleague Aulická Jírovcová, Vice-President of the MP, will speak in more detail. I am convinced that the person who deals with the subject should speak to him. My personal opinion is that if the upcoming, not even here in the House, the law is intended to affect, above all, the traders with the human misfortune and the misery, but let the debate be fully developed. We're not gonna support the program. And I'm going to apologize here for the Chamber of Deputies meeting for work reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Chvojka has the floor, followed by President Bartošek and then by President Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u6	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I preferred President Kováčik to respond to what President Bartoš said. I didn't want me to get involved in any of this, to mix up the debate in some way. I wanted to give him the space for the apology that President Bartoš called for. As for the current meeting, or virtually. a proposal for a meeting, so I think that this problem has two levels. The first plane is of course factual and the second plane is political, and let's say legislative or legislative technical. As far as the material level is concerned, the first level is the one that I remember as the then minister, who worked on the social housing law together with the then Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of Regional Development, we submitted a very comprehensive and long-disputed proposal for the social housing law. I think that social housing is not quite a happy name, that it would be better to name this institute by the available housing or decent housing or some other, but not social, but whatever. This is about content, not title. [[9.20 hours]] And it is true that part of this bill, which has been discussed for a very long time both at the level of the Working Commissions of the Legislative Council of the Government and at the Legislative Council of the Government, and then in the Government, and part of this material were changes in housing benefits, which were, however, timed to apply only when the public housing system was implemented. The truth is that this proposal, even though it was a government proposal, has unfortunately been criticised by the coalition partner at the time, the ANO movement, apparently with the intention that they in the next government will make the Institute of Social Available or what housing themselves and better. But, as you can see, it didn't happen. The current management of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs proposes measures that limit housing benefits greatly. But a complete change for the better cannot happen without building a system of publicly available housing in cooperation with small or large municipalities and cities. Surely we all wish that trade in poverty should be ended in this country. And it must also be said that the past government of the ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL have greatly tightened the conditions for the payment of benefits to the hostels and reduced their level. Unfortunately, however, the proposed current reform will not only affect socially excluded people at the residential hotels, but it would affect very painfully even poorer workers, families or seniors. The upcoming reform we're talking about here is counting on the merger of both housing benefits at 1:00, and I see three risk elements that could make tens of thousands of households lose their claim. Firstly, the housing allowance is subject to an asset test, which is still only for the housing supplement. Secondly, the beneficiaries of the subsistence allowance would be left with a minimum, but they should not be left with more, and for the housing allowance existing standards, which today distinguish the levy ceiling by the size of the municipality, would be limited to one square metre of the same for the whole country. And at a time when the Czech Republic still doesn't exist, unfortunately, as I mentioned it, the law on social or public housing will have disastrous consequences, especially for single seniors or seniors, singles or poor working families, where housing benefits have so far been a very important and important part of their family budget. At the same time, these measures will create enormous pressure on so already overloaded labor authorities and without increasing the number of workers, respectively. officials at employment offices by about 800 people, it will not be possible to implement this proposal at all. That's for the material part of the proposal. I think it follows from what I have said that we do not agree with such a'reform' and the ČSSD certainly does not support it, and if it turns out that we will have our Minister of Labour and Social Affairs - we will learn the results of the referendum tomorrow - our Minister will definitely withdraw this proposal. And now to the political and legislative level. This proposal, which a part of Members here today rightly wants to talk about, is a proposal that has not yet come to the House. It is a proposal, and I know it as the former Minister of Legislation, who is somewhere in an inter-reort, theoretically he would have been expected to, let's say, still a meeting on the Working Commissions of the Legislative Council of the Government, at the Legislative Council of the Government - the proposal that we are discussing today can theoretically change a thousand times more. And I don't think it's entirely logical for us as politicians to expand or change battlefields in the sense that we won't wait for the law to come here in some form, but we'll be dealing with bills that are somewhere in an interdepartment. That doesn't make any sense. The law can change a hundred times, or it doesn't even have to come here for different reasons. The Government's Legislative Council will know that this is a totally bad law. The government just won't approve him for some reason. Are we going to talk about all kinds of things that are still in the interreort? Are we going to expand the battlefield by talking about things that may not even come here? It doesn't make any sense. Are we going to play at some other legislative board of government that judges the law when we're supposed to wait for them to come here from that government? It doesn't make sense. So that's the political or legislative technical or perhaps logical plane. That means résumé. Firstly, we do not support this proposal, and our potential Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will withdraw it, because the proposal is wrong, it is not premeditated, it is not logical. Secondly, for the reasons that I have said, we will not support the agenda for this extraordinary meeting, because the things that are yet to be found in an inter-ministerial area do not, in my opinion, belong to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Let's wait for this possible proposal to come from the government right here, as we have it in the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. Here's the apology information. As President Kováčik has announced, he apologizes for personal reasons for today's meeting. President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček apologizes on account of a foreign business trip, Mr Radek Koten for reasons of work for today's day, from 9.50 for reasons of work Mr Radek Holomčík and Vice-President of the House Jan Hamáček for today's meeting on account of a foreign business trip. It follows with the priority right of President Bartošek's speech, followed by President Faltýnek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I appeal to you, colleagues, with a request that you allow this programme to be approved, because we consider this to be very important so that it can be discussed on this subject. That is why we have also asked for this meeting to be convened. This is a relatively fundamental thing that will have an impact on the lives of people in the tens of thousands, and it is important for us to be able to discuss all, not at the level of only priority rights. Of course, if this is not allowed, we will proceed in the same way and we will step out of the position of priority rights, but I consider it fair that, in particular, from sites such as Ustecko, Ostrava and others, Members of Parliament and Members to whom this applies may also have the opportunity to comment. We consider the question of housing to be absolutely crucial. And while I understand what my colleague Chvojka said here, I think it is important that the Chamber of Deputies be informed of what steps they are going to take, because they are absolutely essential, as I said, and they will have an impact on a number of families and can really drive them into social distress. A lot of families who work properly and do their duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good morning, colleagues. I will be very brief in this opinion of our club, although this extremely important topic took place at our club, I think we all agree that this is an issue that needs to be addressed, so there was a big debate, especially because part of our colleagues come from the very localities that are very close to this issue, especially from northern Bohemia. koneckonců all, even the first Deputy Prime Minister comes from the Ústí region, where he solves the problem daily. However, our club is leaning towards the same position that has been expressed here, quite long explained by President Chvojka. [[9.30 hours]] Let's not discuss the law until he's in the House. Today, if I have good information, at the level of the Legislative Council of the Government, there may still be x changes to this proposal. In our opinion, although this is an extremely important subject to be addressed in the House of Deputies, it makes sense to address the subject in a moment, up to the table lies a specific government bill, or a bill proposal, not to speculate on what would be, etc. So, for this reason, our parliamentary club will not support the approval of the agenda for this meeting, but, of course, Minister Němcová will speak with priority rights and give a relatively detailed opinion on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u11	She will now speak with the priority right of Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, who is Vice-President of the KSČM Club and acts as Deputy President of the Club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u12	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, let me also express our position on the proposed agenda for this extraordinary meeting for the KSČM club. We have spoken for several times publicly, I think, that we perceive the situation that it is, and I, as a Member of the Ústí Region, could tell you what situation it really is and that it is not really fun and that we face a situation every day where our citizens are constantly complaining that coexistence with some citizens is simply not possible and there is nothing new to have certain parasites at home and so on. But I must commend the current Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that it has finally come up with some fundamental reform more or less in this area, and with such reform that it has really raised policies from all sides. That's never really happened before. And I must say that I am finally glad that the housing issue has started to be discussed. The question, however, is on which side and how you feel that housing needs to be addressed. We in the Ústí Region perceive that the outrage, actually the abuse of payments and housing contributions is so great - and do not earn from socially weak or inadaptable people, but our ordinary citizens, but unfortunately also people living abroad, earn from it. We are aware that this issue really needs to be addressed. Of course, we perceive that unfortunately people who really need help and who fall into everything with everything in the bag will fall into this issue, and we perceive that they really need to be separated. I would like to say here that we think, as my colleagues have also sent before me, that at this time it is probably not good to discuss this bill, when de facto the law has not actually gotten on the ground of the Chamber of Deputies or the wheel and now, even after expressive comments and comments from the regions and municipalities, it is still a fundamental change, and I think that before it gets to the wheel... [[There's noise in the hall, the speaker cut the speech for a while, the MPs quieted down.]] Yeah, it's okay. I must say that there will be some really sharp changes to the round when it comes to the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, I would prefer that the representatives of the parliamentary clubs, as we sit here, sit at one table with representatives of the regions and municipalities and discuss all the parameters and topics that are involved in this proposal, because these are things that the regions and, of course, especially those municipalities carry in the tone that they currently have no legislative instruments to deal with certain matters, and, of course, they have the need to pass it on to us Members, in addition to the relevant ministry. We also see the preparation of a new law on social housing, and perhaps also the Minister for Regional Development - here - may give an opinion. In any case, compliance with the social housing law should also be borne by discussing these housing benefits. That's what I think should really be consistent. I would like to say that the situation in the regions, in excluded localities, especially in the Ústí Region, is really serious. City police, state police, hygiene, construction agencies just don't have any tools, no way to help these authorities deal with the situation. Yes, we can say openly that after the 1990s the boom started and the municipalities just started to sell housing funds and more or less went on after 2000 and with a contribution or housing supplement, which was actually established in 2011, started business with poverty. I do not know whether to continue talking about other arguments regarding this proposal. In any case, I would just like to mention that the amendment to state social support does not bring about such a major impact on the housing contributions themselves. That's where the amounts are virtually unchanged. I think that perhaps what you want to discuss is part of the amendment on material distress, where parameters change from 80 to 60 percent of the cost of normative housing, and then of course other parts. But let's say openly, and I think that even the regions have written to the Minister that they really do not see this situation, or they really do not see this proposal as systemic in the long run and they want to deal with it in other ways. I agree with this and I must say that KSČM too, and therefore we would see in the future that we need to merge housing benefits, that is to say, a supplement and a contribution to housing from the system of assistance in material distress and housing allowance into one levy and a maximum amount for rent and services in the amount of municipal rental housing. These are the parameters with which we would like to go into the discussions that are now going on around the law, and I must say that for us it is one of the essential things that we would like to push through. I therefore say that we will not support the agenda of this meeting, and we really see that we should really argue about these things at other levels at the moment, especially with the municipalities and regions, so that we should listen to them and not have to write us, for example, the representatives of municipalities and regions, long letters and opinions, but to really talk to them and discuss the issue that is there. Really believe that nothing is pleasant when you really can't do anything in fundamental matters and you can't help those you want to help either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. Prime Minister Okamura, after whom Minister Němcová. Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes for working reasons for today's meeting. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, as is widely known, my colleagues and I from the SPD have long criticized the support and support of people who could work but do not work. In the long term, we are trying to make changes in the social system, which should be motivating. On the other hand, I add with one breath that it is necessary for the state, regions and municipalities to provide affordable housing for our decent and proper citizens, as well as for people to receive the wages they deserve. To call for an emergency meeting because the government is preparing changes in housing benefits is not a very happy situation from this point of view. For one thing, these changes have not been definitively introduced by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but they will undoubtedly present them in the parliamentary committees and they will be discussed there and undoubtedly have comments and will ask for changes. It's okay. Subsequently, in some paragrafo-enhanced text, we will all discuss these proposals and renegotiate them or modify them. I agree that the system is wrong. If companies with billions of turnover here give employees 15 to 20,000 net, then there is something wrong, because by contributing to housing for these people, the state essentially indirectly subsidizes these billionaires from the company owners by financing their employees. From our point of view, therefore, the ideal condition is that the person who works does not need any benefits because he has a decent wage enough, and those who cannot work, the infirm or the elderly, the state must give them one adequate decent pension, which is sufficient for both livelihood and housing. [[9.40 hours]] Another problem is moving people into big cities. This, of course, makes housing expensive, while in the villages thousands of apartments and houses are empty, unused and unselling. The cure is the only one. We must rebuild infrastructure in the regions, return shops, doctors, pubs, ensure cheap and frequent transport. And we also need to help people not only with starting housing, but also with work. That means not throwing bureaucratic sticks at people and shitting them out of their skin with meaningless taxes and forms. Social housing is a subject that really needs to be worked out. And I call on you to work specifically on a good solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will now perform Jaroslava Němcová. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I also wish you a beautiful morning. I'm sure the topic she called for today or an extraordinary meeting has been held today is very important, and I'm so glad that we all agree on this. I, together with my colleagues at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, have been working very intensively on this subject, as many other areas have since 13 December. This is, and on this we all agree, a very important area, to help people who need help if they take care of this assistance and must take care of it. I don't know if I'll be here for the Department of Labour and Social Affairs in 14 days or a month. But I would very much like one thing to make you the subject, as you are actively speaking, to see that you have an effort to resolve these things, so that you will also be interested in the elections, after the municipal elections. Because the situation here, it didn't happen now, it didn't happen yesterday, it didn't happen last month, it's been here for years. A system of welfare benefits has been set up, benefits in material distress, which have reached that stage, that it is really worth being at home, not going to work and not working. It paid off the community, and they could afford to sell the housing capacity they had for the needy. Because they are simply needed on the system of benefits of state social support, on the system of benefits of material distress. And the benefits are so well set that they even pay off, and they paid off in the past, especially in recent years, to enter this, and I'm gonna say it, to the business of private groups, to private owners who bought apartments from municipalities, to buy hostels, and to continue to run their business for the money of the state. Because the benefits we pay are paid out of the public budget, we pay out of the common money. So we are helping people, but in particular we are helping business and trade of private entrepreneurs in this area. I am glad that the debate - even though today we have gathered over the proposals for the amendment of two laws which are being developed, which have not yet passed the government, have not passed the government, have not even been able to reach you in the House yet. However, if you feel like discussing it, I am really ready and I am very happy that the discussion will take place before the amendments come to you in the House for discussion. Since January, I and my colleagues have been circling locations that have the biggest problems. We're going around the hostels, we're going around the families. We've collected countless contracts, instructions on how the store is running, how the state's aid is actually running. I don't know which politicians, even in the post-election period, not only before the elections, actually looked at these locations, talked to people, was in their homes and asked what is really going on when we talk about helping people who need help out of public money. There has been talk for many years about social housing, the social housing system. One law, one law. He fell under the table again. We sat down and said, "I'm sure it's right if social housing is to be dealt with. I am not convinced today and I think that sometimes it is a bit of a mantra, a law on social housing, I am not convinced, and my colleagues and I talked about it if it must be one law 100%. It is a very complicated area in which they certainly have something to talk about and other amendments and other areas are to be followed. That is why we have an interresor group, which is why we are consulting the next procedure and setting up the whole system, both the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Regional Development and, of course, the Ministry of Finance. But what is essential is that the primary responsibility is to take care of people who live in a given territory, in a given village, in a given city, must have a community or a city, or a region. Over the last few years, aid from the state, when I sum up, looked exactly like we doubled the billions we sent to social services from 2014 to 2017. Instead of seven, this year it is CZK 14 billion 600 million. It's not enough. We're sending billions more for community service. We are sending billions more on active employment policy, social work. And the result is the one we learned when we did the analysis, I don't know if it was ever done before, the analysis, who ever received the benefits, the housing contributions, and the housing payments from us. Whether they are only people to whom they were originally meant to be when both laws were drawn up, or whether they are people who do not need benefits anymore. It's just 12.5 billion crowns. And I, as a caretaker, if I answer and I'm responsible for the chapter, it's perfectly logical, and it makes sense to me that I'm just going to look at the 12.5 billion, too. And so we looked. It is very important that we say that we are talking about two adjustments, two doses. We are talking about the housing contribution, this is the benefit of state social support, where we are now providing about CZK 9.5 billion out of public money. The second dose is a housing supplement. We're talking about about two billion crowns here, but these are the benefits that apply, it's a dose of material distress. It is money that really concerns housing, which is very often 80 percent in non-standard conditions. These are not apartments, they are hostels and places that have approved hygiene, hygiene standards, but often people live in them in absolutely terrible conditions when you pass them. If you have read, and I apologize terribly much, many of you certainly have not, because you could not appear in front of the cameras and say that the housing allowance will touch singles, pensioners, seniors, people who need money and who will not be able to afford housing. So if you read the proposal very closely and carefully, the draft amendment to the State Social Support Act No 117, you would find that what we are proposing is only in the amendment so far, because it has not yet passed the government and has not passed you, the House, what we are proposing is only that the parameters have not changed at all. It doesn't change higher. What we want to adjust, because we just simply figured it out, is to prevent overuse and abuse of doses. This means, in brief, looking at a range of people who actually receive benefits and defining more precise rules for them to continue to receive the necessary money and to afford rent, cooperative or personal housing so that they do not have to move but that benefits are not abused. [[9.50 hours]] If I simply briefly go through the proposal for this amendment to confirm what I said, what will the amendment be about, or do we want it to touch? It will definitely affect the assessment of the persons entitled to the benefit. Today it is common - and this remains - that entitlement... or benefit, will be able to apply for a housing allowance for anyone who finds himself in an adverse situation and the cost of housing per month represents more than 30 and 35 percent of the total household income in Prague. It stays that way. That's how it is, and that's how it's gonna be. Today, there is no assessment of how many people, when paid, receive a contribution and pay the rent as much as they have left. We're running a test, or we'd like to, we'd like to, and we don't see anything wrong with that. If there are cases that, after paying for such expensive flats by housewives, they often have tens of thousands of crowns to live on, and we think that is not enough. In that case, next to the people who pay the mortgages, there are no benefits, and people who are able to cover other needs of their lives, there I think the money from the social budget should not travel from the social affairs budget. We need those for the disabled, for the elderly, for people who really can't help themselves. The test we want to put in place is that if you subtract the cost of living a month, people will be left with more than twice the minimum of living, they will not be entitled. If you have listened carefully when the previous speaker said he doesn't like numbers, we are talking about the fact that all singles, pensioners, seniors, disability are completely unrelated to this test. The analysis is clear, unfortunately, the numbers are clear when you pull them out of the system. What we want and what I think is very logical, we will certainly consider the circle of living together in one household. If you go through the locations that we talked about, where there are the biggest problems, it is very common that people live together in one household, but if benefits are set only for the persons they have - and the disposable income of the household is calculated only for those who have a common permanent residence, it is very clear and very common that a person who, one or two of the households, is mostly reported elsewhere, even if he is permanently living in a household with other members. That is why we said it would be nice if nine ten billion are flowing into these benefits, there will be a social investigation on the spot. What else? Let's just see if the situation really is what people are declaring it on the forms they're bringing to the employment office today. Very often, people bring a contract to the employment offices, in which the rent and energy and the costs associated with the use of the apartment are in one amount. Very often, we have very many contracts, very often they pay for one-bedroom apartment 12, 13, 14, 15,000 crowns. Do you know why they have a flat-rate amount in their contract? The costs to be borne? For a simple reason. The standard that is set has been set by one amount so far. According to the household, according to the number of persons, according to the city in which the apartment is located, and according to how many people live together in the household. Very often after talking to people and showing you the billing, in the rent or in the complex amount, the lump sum is stated that the rent is CZK 1,000 or CZK 2,000 and the rest is very commonly CZK 6.5,000, CZK 7,000 in the one-bedroom apartment or in the studio for gas, CZK 3.5,000, 4,000 for energy. These are advances that fall under the total amount, but at the end of the year or half of the next year when they are due and they receive contributions, so in the middle of the following year, when there is a settlement of advance payments for energy, very few people will bring back overpayments. And if you get into their homes, you'll often learn that they won't even get a schedule from the owners. And often, even for such high advances, the surcharges are paid. What we have designed and proposed in the novel is once again just a logical thing. We will put a price on the rent and the amount of energy and the costs associated with housing. These numbers aren't made up, the numbers are average, they're from the statistical office, and they correspond to the normal cost of living, rent, energy, and the cost of using apartments. If people want to receive housing contributions, it is logical that they bring it in this form and say: this is what I pay for rent, this is what I pay for energy and the cost of using the apartment. And if the landlords want to rent their apartments as proper businessmen, they certainly don't have a problem with that. Many of us rent apartments, I rent flats, too, and I don't have a problem with the rent and the amount of energy, because I'm taxing the rent. Because it's my income. But if the gross amounts I'm going to get are written out as energy, then of course, they don't fall under our tax base. So it's to divide the normalizer. I warn you once again, and I would very much like you, in particular, not to disinformed the public, not misleading, then it seems, even false information about what is being prepared. Normals, the above remains the same. If you hear on the news on Friday night that Mom, who has two children, is a single child, she has 7,000 crowns left to live, and today she will remain 4,000 after adjustment and is in a very difficult situation, please, it is a lie! I have here, ladies and gentlemen, about 16 examples prepared for A3, for A4, so you can see. [[He's showing the papers.]] I have here even from the mentioned Prague 7 single mom, an example that has rented an apartment even for CZK 17,000, has only a parental contribution, as mentioned in the news, about CZK 6,000. It has only child allowance, so its total income is CZK 7,110. Even this single mom, if she pays the rent, exactly renting the apartment from the real estate agency, selected, Sreality, for 57 sqm 17,000 crowns - even this mom gets a housing allowance. And he's gonna get an extra living fee. Even this mother will remain at least after this adjustment as before the adjustment of CZK 7,200. That's just the way it is, because it's clear numbers, and here's the algorithm. [[It shows the calculation.]] Another area where it certainly seems logical to us not to overuse the benefits or abuse them is to see if people who receive housing contributions, besides that, which is also very rare, but often, besides that they own real estate for living, own apartments, own houses, own even houses, in which there are several other housing units that they rent, and themselves draw housing contributions. You think there's really something wrong with that? And is that really going to put these people at risk if they don't pick up their housing allowance in thousands of crowns a month? That's the other modification that's been designed. And once again, it seems very logical. So I was talking about the basic areas that we want to adjust in the housing allowance. Once again, it's not a modification of parameters. It is a modification of the circle of people who will apply for benefits. [[10.00 hours]] We assume that overuse of the dose occurs. We've got the numbers, we've got the analysis. It's mostly a lot more in big cities than in small towns and villages. And it's gonna be about these people, and it's gonna be about the savings, eventually. The money will not go further into the state budget, into other chapters. I suppose even if I have a successor, he'll deal with the money very responsibly. I'm already on my desk today - I consulted the Minister of Finance on two options for a possible increase in care allowance for disabled people, those who need it. So I'll be very happy for every 100 thousand, 100 miles. crowns that will be saved, and I suppose it could be by overuse of up to 1.5 to 2 billion. crowns that will truly travel to the needy. The second amendment, which we have prepared and which we have prepared again in the Legislative Council of the Government, is an amendment to Act 111, i.e. Amendment to the Act on Material Needs, which concerns housing supplements. Housing supplements are now a material emergency. Only those who are in material need can apply for them, receive a living allowance, and live either in an apartment, but very often 80 percent live in non-standard housing forms - these are hostels and other facilities. For those benefits, unlike the housing allowance of 200 thousand. households, we're talking about 45 thousand. households. Of all of them, 80 percent of them are in the dormitories... [[He's looking in the materials.]] I'm just gonna get the background ready here... 8.5 thousand. the benefits are in the hostels. If you take the number, it's about 250 grand. monthly benefits, and that number is now from March, about 8.5 thousand. the benefits are in the hostels. The total is 13.5 thousand. people we're paying out to about a thousand residential hotels. They are people who are in material distress, have a problem, and the state is helping them. They take additional benefits, other support from the state social support system, in addition to making a living. And if they are not satisfied with the housing contribution they receive in the state social support, if they are in the apartment, they will still be able to get an additional housing payment so that they do not get below the minimum of living. People who are in apartments. People who are in the residential hotels draw only a supplement to housing. This is the dose we're talking about. It also depends on the standardizations that are laid down in benefits, in state social support, in the housing allowance. It was that it was up to 80 percent, and now we're talking - and again it's then, after we've assessed how much the dose really is, how much is per square meter, how much is it per bed in the hostel. If it is reduced from 80 to 60 percent, we are talking about some 1,100 crowns for individuals. If it's a multi-family, it's 700 crowns. If we're talking about 1,100 crowns that they get less, I'll give you the second fact. 95 percent of the people living in the hostel today do not even 20 hours of public work. All or a large majority of them are led to the employment office, and a substantial majority of them - 85 percent of them have an exception - have a small child, is currently ill, is long-term ill, cannot work for some reason. They don't work at all. Only public works - and these are statistics, clear numbers and they are information from localities such as Ústí, the Karlovy Vary Region, the Moravian-Silesian Region - will work out a total of 3% of them. And they don't mind at all that from the amount of living minimum, which is CZK 3,410, they fall to CZK 2,200. They'll fall to the existential minimum. These people receive the existential minimum and could very easily reach 3 410 crowns. They don't. You know why? I have a hostel here for many hostels, and that's the one we're talking about in Ústí today. The price lists of the hostels, but they're very secret, and you only get to them when they invite you in. You wouldn't drink tea, but if you go through it, you see the horrible conditions in which they live - horrible, full of bedbugs, other animals, and it's a room of 12 meters, with three, four, five people living in it. [[shows image]] A very secret price list that hangs and which just happened to be taken by my assistant because no one could come to the hostel who was just interested in being a journalist, so here we speak - CZK 5,860 for such a bed is being paid by the people in the hostels. But it is borne by those who are in material distress. When you go out to this particular hostel and the individual people who live in the hostel, you come up with an interesting thing. They draw the full amount, but it doesn't correspond to the amount they actually pay. We are trying - the state is trying and it is fine, if it doubles billions in social services in four years, it is very important that the region ensure that the village takes care of the city. I don't know why, maybe it's just a coincidence, and it's probably just because it's before the elections again, but I believe that you're all going to be so intense after the local elections, and I would really like that, and believe me, would those people want it too - because what's the big deal? It's about getting them out of the dormitories and getting them out of the non-standard housing and really helping them, getting them into standard apartments, getting them into better conditions where they can get a living allowance. Very often mentioned situation in Ústí. I am, of course, in close contact because I came from the Central Bohemia Region, perhaps that is why I am not far from the councillors. We consult very often. And I would like to tell you that the conditions of both one amendment and the other are discussed very regularly with all councilmen through social matters, especially Ústí, the Karlovy Vary Region and the Moravian-Silesian Region. And if they made comments in the circle of inter-ministerial commentary proceedings of the region, you may have also noticed that it was last week - or maybe it was a week ago - they all downloaded it. Just because we sat down and said: the parameters are the ones we talked about. We have even increased the standard from 50 originally proposed percentages to 60 percent, so all regions have agreed to these conditions. And the social councilmen agreed. And it was agreed by the head of the social services union. These are the people who work with the people in the region. Those are the ones who are dealing with it today. These are the ones who called me this morning, as Deputy Director Klika of the Ústí Region, because yesterday they had a coordination committee and it was last week and it will be a coordination committee on Monday and it will be dealt with. I think I'll be with them on Monday at the coordination committee. But they're not really falling apart. The fact that Mr Brož is supposed to be preparing today - and now imagine - paradoxically demonstrating people from those two residential hotels because they want to stay in those hostels... Well, who do you think organized it? If this hostel I showed you, the owner gets 4.5 miles a year. Kroner, who do you think these protests are, who's gonna advise these people? You know, there are many of them who tell you: we don't want to tell you who the owner is, maybe you'd be surprised yourself. It is many politicians who are the owners of the apartments, the owners of the residential hotels, the owners of these conditions, on which the state helps. [[Let's hear it for yes.]] [[10.10 hours]] Thank you. But it's very sad, because if I show you the pictures here, I'm not going to name them, so maybe many of you are here, or maybe there are some colleagues who also own some properties today. If we really want to solve and we want to help, then I think the state is here from spending billions to make money really go to those who need it, not to those who do business and who have based their business on it. If the municipalities and cities have sold the capacity that they had so determined and could fulfil this function, there is nothing left but if we consult and create conditions with the Ministry of Regional Development, with the Ministry of Finance, we will help the municipalities build these capacities, because there is no other option. There's no other way. We have to put these people somewhere. But on the other hand, and I'm so sorry about the 14 billion. In social services it is also for us to work with people, and if they take tens of thousands and people who pay their mortgages live alongside them, they go to work, tens of thousands of disabled people who go to work, so that they can be paid to work, and that they are forced to show the will that they want to live in a better way. What can I say in conclusion? I have here - and I can talk about this afternoon, my colleague asked me how long it was - about 20 examples calculated on specific figures. [[shows]] These examples relate to entitlement before the levy and entitlement to the levy upon acceptance of these amendments, if any. If, as has been announced, the successor, the new minister withdraws the amendments, he will have the right to do so, of course. And we'll continue as we continued for the last five or six years, when it paid off to sell real estate, or with a light heart, and sold to owners, private owners, private companies that certainly don't do this service without profit, it paid off to start the business. I would very much like you to do this not only before the elections, but also after the elections. Believe it or not, we've been doing this for the last few months since the first day I sat in the Ministry, because I know this situation from the level of the county and the city. I would very much like that, really, if the amendments arrive here - because it is quite exceptional that you are dedicated, in my opinion, I am here for a short time, the amendments that someone has prepared and are in a commentary circle - if these amendments come here, so believe that they are processed in my opinion very responsibly. And what they have to contribute to is merely preventing or limiting abuse and overuse of benefits, that is, money that can help somewhere else until a new social housing law comes out or a few amendments come out that will be linked to each other. But I'm sure you can feel that. And you're experts here, and you have a lot of experience that it's not running for one, two, three months, not even running for one year. But as far as I know that I can already do something about money being abused, it's public money, you might condemn me, and maybe you'll continue to interpret very misleading information in the media, calmly, before the elections, it's necessary to make yourself visible, but believe that the proposals that are ready today and are in a circle were prepared with the best intention only to prevent abuse without restricting, on the contrary, so that we can help those in need who need help here much more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u17	I thank the Minister, too. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, good morning. Before I invite other speakers with priority rights, I have some tickets here. Mr Rostislav Vyzula apologizes to us between 9:45 and 13:00, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček apologizes to us from 10:00 to 12:00 because of his work outside the House, Mr Jan Kubík apologizes to us between 10:00 and 12:00 also for work reasons. And now, please, Prime Minister Bartošek, with priority rights. Secretary Dostálová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. On several issues, I agree with the Minister, and that is that there is a need to prevent the business of poverty, because what is happening in the residential hotels is indeed shameful and in many cases there is abuse of social benefits, and there are living people who are not interested in the fates of the people who are staying. We agree on that, and there is clearly a need to avoid it. On the other hand, it must be noted that there are not only social cases in this Republic, the abusers of social benefits. There are a large number of people in this republic who only have low incomes and otherwise care carefully and are responsible. And that's where it's important that they're not damaged by a possible reform. Since I have understood that most parties do not have the will to approve today's programme, I have spoken with priority rights because, as a standard, MEPs do not get to have the opportunity to speak. I'm acting out of that title with priority rights. To begin with, I would like to say that I appreciate the fact that the pirát, STAN and TOP supported the call for this meeting, because I do not think that today's negotiations are pointless. On the contrary, I think that because this topic has risen, the original parameters with which the MPSV first came have been adjusted during the process. So I think the pressure is useful and it's important. You say, Madam Secretary, you have a number of calculations. I can say that I have calculations from the Social Housing Platform, and they don't fully agree with you. There is, of course, a consensus that they will have claims on the benefits you are talking about, but ultimately they will be humiliated, that is, families will be worse off economically. But again, you have your calculations, I have mine, we can sit down and we can talk about it. If you refer to the regional negotiations, then allow me to quote the press release of the Union of Towns and Communities from yesterday, when its chairman says that changes in the social field can have a major impact on the lives of the most fragile citizens, i.e. the disabled, the elderly and the socially weak, and also those who would fall into poverty without the help of the state. There is an interesting timing that the expected change should occur from 1 January 2019 - I say it well. This means change in the context of housing comes in the winter months, it comes in January, when it is still cold in the Czech Republic and many people can be exposed to uncertainty about what will happen in winter and frost with them. You say it's the responsibility of cities and municipalities. Of course, cities and municipalities, everyone who has ever been a municipal politician, know that mayors care about their own people honestly, but if the support of the state falls out on such a key issue, it goes beyond the authority of the mayors. Here, let me do one more thing. You repeatedly tell us not only to worry about this during the election season. I can assure you that the world didn't start spinning because YES entered politics and you became a minister. I can say for myself that I have visited a number of hostels - Varnsdorf and many others. I've been dealing with this issue for a long time. One thing to be aware is that the topic is really long-term, painful and long-term unsolved, except for the previous government, which has adjusted the payment to the hostels. But it takes even more forceful intervention, I agree with you on that. It should be noted that the solution is not just a dose. People need apartments, they need a place to live. I have been here in vain for more than three years - and in the previous parliamentary term I have dealt with the Ministry of Finance, there has been a repeatedly discussion about the need to adjust the State Housing Development Fund, that it is necessary to make it easier for municipalities to draw on the need to allow municipalities to build and support their housing fund, that it is important that it falls out of the circle of dear developers and expensive mortgages, that it is necessary to allow people to live for reasonable money. [[10.20 hours]] I mean, housing is better than benefits. Let's not make people into social cases when there are no social cases. People are competent. They know what they need. By adjusting the mortgage market, we have delayed the possibility for a number of people to reach their own homes, but we have offered nothing against it for people who cannot live, who have lower incomes. For over three years, I've been dealing with resorts that fall under YES, the possibility of adjusting the terms of the State Housing Development Fund to allow those mayors to touch money from the state, but not as a subsidy that they can get the money. The Lidovecký project expects us to say: borrow money from the European Investment Bank. I mean, the Department of Transport borrowed a hundred billion to fix twos and threes. We say let's borrow the money, but set the parameters so that in the form of rents, black zeros, these buildings pay. It's kind of Marshallův's plan for cities and municipalities. We say mayors have old objects, the state has unused property. There's no need to occupy the new arable land. Let's work with the brownfields, work with the property that the communities have. Have them work their projects and do community housing. By bailing out banks, by getting out of it, dear developers, of course, someone has to build it, but not by building a developer and selling it with excessive profit, our calculations are based on the fact that we're able to get the rent down 30 to 40 percent. We give people housing, not benefits. We don't make social cases out of them. The mayors are ready, but they say the conditions are very complicated. It's simple. Let the mayors have prepared projects, whether by rebuilding brownfields or possibly by building on green, let them become simple and understandable conditions of the State Housing Development Fund allow the mayors to build these housing funds and offer them to the people. After all, every mayor wants people to live in his community and his city to stay there. This will not be a solution just for Prague. This will also be a solution for small municipalities. If these people have the opportunity to pay the rent to pay it out of their income, they'll be happy to do so. Believe that people are not thrilled to receive benefits from the state. That is, if we can build and allow the mayors to have cheap money in the form of a loan from the state at almost zero interest - because at the moment money is cheap, and if it were realized before the three years we wanted to deal with it as folks, the money on the market was even cheaper. We were consulted that the European Investment Bank was able to lend a large amount of money to the Czech Republic at zero zero nothing with a guarantee for twenty years. If you allow the municipalities to borrow money with slim interest, then believe that every mayor will like to borrow it because he knows that in the form of rents that people will pay, it will pay that they will not owe their community to the future. And it needs to be realized that the mayors are interested. And historically, it exists. In South Moravia our former captain Stanislav Juránek built more than a thousand flats in this way. It's a project that folks have tried in practice. We know him, we know him, we implement him. Unfortunately, I can say for myself that I don't care about MMR and finance just didn't make it happen. We pointed out in advance that rents go up, that housing availability will be worse and worse, and that you have to allow people to live. And it is necessary to distinguish between available housing and social housing. Yeah, there's a part of the people who need us to accompany them. But social housing is about making these people more competitive, putting social services, field social work on it. But most people are competent. They just have low income, and they can't pay their rent. It's not that they have problems, they don't go to work. No. Return people's pride and confidence in allowing them to live so that they don't go to the dormitories. The solution isn't giving people money. The solution is that you will allow mayors to build and strengthen their housing funds in their cities and municipalities. And when you talk about how difficult it is to get to the housing price list, once again, I think the right way to go is to strengthen field control. After all, good social work is based on field work. We need people, social workers who will go out in the field, control where they live, how many people live, how many people are in the room, and what money. But do we have to change the law? We don't have to! We don't have to. We come up with a new standard, a new law, a new construct. I mean, ask those people in the field who say, "It's always changing for us." What are we supposed to control? What are we supposed to do? [[Noise in KSČM benches.]] And it's not just in the social sphere. Sure, to some extent the social reform of Minister Drábek, who then massacred social workers and threw away so much that basically field social work had to resign because of the fact that she had few people. But this chapter is over. It's been too long. After all, it's about sending these social workers out into the field. If the state pays anything, it has the right to control it. If I'm paying contributions and housing payments, I have a right to know how many people live in a room, I have a right to know what price lists are. How is it not working? [[Rejuvenation in KSČM benches. The speaker is turning left.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u19	I would like to ask Members in the left side of the hall not to shout to the speakers and to keep them quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u20	I'll go back to what I said. But this is a sign of state weakness. If the assignment is clear that we just want to control it and we want to know the information, then it's just like the state, if we pay it, we'll have it. And anyone who doesn't cooperate has no right to receive money from the state! If people who do not comply with hygiene standards and accommodate more people than they are supposed to be there, they have no right to money from the state. It is much more about the strength of the state and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Office of Labour and Field Work. If we say that the provision of benefits simply has rules, we will enforce them! It's not like we're gonna change the law, and we're gonna believe that if the law changes, we're gonna get the system working. It's not about that. We've seen that happen again and again. First of all, let us consider how to use the tools at our disposal, first of all, whether we are able to deal with the situation in terms of what we know and what exists and not change the law. Changing the law isn't the answer. The change in the law is that the state will enforce what belongs to it. So for us people, I can say that the solution is to support the construction of municipal apartments, to support the housing fund, to allow people to have decent housing to rent housing, to have municipal housing for the money they can afford. Let's not make people into welfare benefits, but let's give them back their dignity by saying yes, I, as mayor, have a place for you, because it's important for me that you, who want to stay here, can afford to live here, you could stay here, I want you. Let's help those mayors in the field and not make people into social cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u21	Thank you, too. I will now ask Minister Dostálová and four other speakers for her. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u22	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Just for starters. I really don't think this is a good platform for us to discuss these things here today. I am actually convinced that... I am invited to the Social Committee, of course we are discussing this very intensively with Mrs Jarka. This is indeed a debate for interested people who, of course, have something to say to exchange this information. And the sadder it gets me the look on the right when Mr. Čižinský calls this meeting, we're all honest about it, and he's not here. So I'm asking who I'm gonna tell. Of course, I am very glad that colleagues from the Pirates are interested in this, because we are actually dealing with some things with the lady. They come as partners with some very good suggestions. It is clear that, for example, social housing as such must, of course, be dealt with differently in smaller cities, in larger cities, etc. [[10.30 hours]] Just a little bit more reaction to what Mr Bartošek here said. Of course, we are also prepared to negotiate together; affordable housing is a great challenge for the future. On the other hand, of course, I have drawn out what the State Housing Development Fund is doing. The state housing development fund already has a program today - Construction is called. In the Construction programme, about half a billion per year is for municipalities such as preferential loans for housing, rental housing - not ownership, rental housing with potentially regulated rent, which is 57.20 per square metre. It's at a preferential interest of 0,75 percent. And do you know what the demand is? 23 projects in the last three years. So, of course, on the basis of these results, I was communicating with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, asking the mayors: What is it? Why don't you want the loans? What exactly is this preventing construction? And they always look at me like that and say, "If, Madam Secretary, we prefer subsidies, we don't want a preferential loan." Do you understand? Of course, we have to deal with these things from different angles so that we can help the mayors. On the other hand, the mayors really, and here I completely agree with Mr Bartošek that the way is not all to get them all out of market housing and get them into social housing, but there really is a group of people, there are not many who have problems, and the state here should help them, should help those municipalities. That's why we're losing the social housing law. But it is, as my colleague said, divided between several departments, where we work very closely together. At the level of the Ministry of Regional Development is called. Grémium for social housing, where we actually solve all the problems with our partners, but besides that, of course, there is a gros group of resorts. And there is, of course, not just me and Minister Němcová, there is also Minister Schillerová, Minister Pelikán, Minister Metnar, because of course there is a need to do some things under the Ministry of the Interior, etc. So I just wanted to make sure we're actually dealing with this. Ironically, today is this House very well again, because today at one o'clock, the collection of applications for the Integrated Regional Operational Programme for Social Housing begins, a call for CZK 2 billion. We already have one per billion in a row, so, of course, the premises are here. Of course, it's all about the low-income groups themselves. But what I consider to be very important about social housing and the construction, the bricks, is that people belonging to a particular target group should not be addressed - I am senior or I am a single parent, or I am such or poppy. We have to deal with the fact that these people have a housing problem, and it doesn't matter if they're singles or if they're male, etc. etc. So, of course, we're dealing with these things with the municipalities. For us, however, it is crucial that the community has to tell itself what it needs in its territory. We're not gonna tell them from the table. The village must come up with this: Yes, I have a population like this. I need this kind of help, but everyone lives in the village, only of course they're getting into some difficult life situations. Then they need social work and help from the state to help them. The other community will say to me: we have such people, but unfortunately they are not apartments, we would actually use the construction. Then it is clear that the municipality can even choose whether to go - and what is all the support for now from the Integrated Regional Operational Programme: Do I want to buy an apartment for these people? In a normal market environment, put these people in the company? Or do I really have some problems, and I want to build a new apartment building? And if I want to build a new apartment house, that's what we're still dealing with - we can't build one apartment. So, of course, we're dealing with an apartment building in this context for social housing purposes. There's limited numbers to desegregating these people and not creating new ghettos. On the other hand, Mr Čižinský was very right when we talked about it, and he says: Beware, Prague can't build houses with 12 apartment units. Where would we get the land? It's just not that simple! That's exactly what impulses are for us. We're already dealing with 100 units today. From those apartments then they will be entitled to a subsidy of 20 percent from that hundred-byte house, which means 20 flats can be for a full subsidy, the rest for a preferential loan. And that means we're going to combine affordable and social housing. But I could really talk for hours and hours here, 'cause there's a lot of materials, materials. We will be presenting this to the government in October of this year. Let's do a seminar in September, there'll be a lot of discussion, we can actually talk about these things, but I think it would be a better platform than this extraordinary meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u23	Thank you, too. Now, please, President Farský, President Bartoš will be ready, followed by Vice-President Aulická, Minister Němcová, President Bartošek and President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as expressed by the various clubs and members of the government, it follows that the programme will not be approved again, and therefore only a few who have priority rights will get the floor. I would like to ask those who are in the clubs that have announced in advance that they may not approve the programme, to think about whether it is entirely right to make democratic debate impossible, to make it impossible for others to speak on a subject that really concerns many, and in many localities it is a major problem which is certainly not shrinking. It's the form we're about to get here, and I hope we don't see another -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u25	Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna interrupt you. I have a feeling the noise level is rising in the O.R. I'd like some peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u26	This to the form, and I hope that we will not witness another obstruction of democratic debate. As for the merit of the matter. In this, I will remember my eight-year mayor's work in Semily, when we felt that this problem was significant and we were also trying to solve it, but the mayor's options were severely limited. Of course, the situation in which applicants went to the office for benefits, where social workers who did not pay them out of their money, but state money, which is a bit of a waste of money, is not entirely happy. I'm not suggesting that they pay it out of their own, but I suggested that I ask the responsible workers to admit not to the final decision, but to get information from them. I offered them myself because I saw that the rents in the residential hotels were several times overpriced compared to standard housing, namely Semily at 9,000 inhabitants have nearly 600 flats. So it's not like we're one of those municipalities that sold out the housing fund and then asked the state for subsidies to build a replacement social housing. But what was strange was that the state rejected this handshake. And at the same time, I understand the total position of the social worker, the clerk, the official who, at the moment the applicants come to him for a dose, often with a strong sound speech, is demanding benefits that those officials are not the ones who would say no, no, no, you don't deserve it, I'm going to save some money from the state budget and then face threats on your part. Naturally, in such a situation, the benefits paid grew. Therefore, because I think that the responsibility to public budgets should be to all of us from all those who are somehow connected to public funds, I suggested as mayor that I am willing to sign under the announcement of what are the maximum, average rents in that village, because if the 9,000 people have 600 flats, you can actually see enough into the price level. However, from those who pay benefits and their superiors, they are said to thank, but that it is of no use to them anyway, it will do no good. That's over. This debate has been gone for years, and I'm sure that it didn't work at the time, there's no way I'm gonna blame the current government. But I would like to offer a helping hand from the municipalities, from the municipalities, from the mayors precisely to the solution that hostels, when they must already be as solutions to some cases that do not get better accommodation, are indeed the provider of accommodation and not an extremely profitable area for individual landlords and operators of these hostels. As mayors, we have this information, this data is available. And we do not need to be the decision-makers, but we are prepared to provide this information throughout the Republic in individual specific municipalities to those responsible for them. [[10.40 hours]] Because I'm not convinced that any surface solution that's being proposed here right now is the right thing to do. In a situation where we lower the surcharge from 80 to 50 or 60 per cent compared to those amounts, what I witnessed in our community may happen is that the tenants simply sign higher contracts, with a higher amount, and the landlord does not require part of them, because that is the part that the state will not cover. But I wouldn't want it to lead only to this. So that basically the amounts that appear to be normal are blown up, and they just make it pay plus minus the same thing, only to a greater degree of cheating. So again, it's a good thing we're opening this debate. I hope that we will really open it for the entire Chamber of Deputies and not just for those with priority rights. And for the starosta, I offer a helping hand to solve this problem and to resolve it really not at the end, that is, at the time of payment of the often excessive benefits, but as far as possible on the basis that leads to this payment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u27	Thank you. And Mr. Bartoš, please. Vice-President Aulická will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for the second time today. I do not think that this debate that is going on here - and I thank the Minister for speaking here - is for those Members who are sitting here. This debate is really for 300 grand. households who, at this point in time, somehow benefit from these benefits, one or the other. It's just that these things are not here in the Chamber of Deputies for our pleasure, but people are watching things in the Chamber of Deputies. And we are talking about a very quick procedure in this law. So I've recorded interesting numbers, and since we've been studying the reason message, it really bothers me when here in the previous... actually in one sentence, we're talking about the fact that mommy actually has some 7,200 for two kids, and that's enough for her. And then in the second sentence, they throw billions like they don't mix. The estimated savings estimate at the Ministry is up to 1.2 billion if I'm not mistaken. So no savings of billions, but 1.2 billion. In my opening speech, I made it clear that I asked a question concerning personnel requirements for labour offices. Again, the explanatory memorandum speaks of 300 miles. costs. Do we have those people who would go into that field? Will they implement the measures to save 1.2 billion, not several billion? Do we have those people when, at the moment, and it was a big question before the elections, isn't there money to pay social workers in the regions? That's not Central Bohemia, that's Ustecko. I'm from the north, too. I'm from Jablonec nad Nisou, there's Tanvald, Smržovka. I go to Decin. I know what the situation is. So my question really went to what this savings are, declared. The explanatory memorandum mentions these figures. The second thing, and it has been said here, through Mr President, I thank my colleague Bartošek, who has also been heard here. This is what we've been talking about since I was 1. 1. 2019. And if the secretary here points out that under the conditions of the poverty trade, there are 8,5 thousand collectors of these benefits at the moment, really about 13.5 thousand people, if we take them as families, and the program of available housing from the MMR is not yet approved, the law is not presented, I wonder what the next gig is for these people at the residential hotels, for those speculators. 'Cause that means if we cut them off at 1. 1. 2019 and we don't have an alternative, where do we put these people? And you can see when we're talking about 8.5,000, and that's what the secretary said, but 13.5,000, because those doses are for an adult, so there's also 5,000 children in it. I wonder if the apartments aren't ready, the social apartments aren't built, there's no reconstruction of some apartments, the municipalities, not just in Prague, maybe they just don't have the apartments, and we'll solve the problem of trade in poverty to 1. 1. in winter, where do we, like, put the 8.5,000 adults and the 5,000 children that are obviously in the total number of people who somehow live in the worst residential hotels? So we can criticize, and that's right, the undignified conditions, the many people who live there, the hygiene. But the next fucking gig is really like under a bridge! And we're in Prague doing some stew and handing out food that's needed. I'm meeting those people who are already at the housing charities. And you've got 20 days to figure it out, 'cause it's not gonna come back again and you're just quitting. And I'm in the 21st century, the rich center of Europe, and we're really dealing with it like... and these people just don't put it, so I guess they just freeze to death on that street. Or there's no more gig. They're not going to the estate. Luník II, that's the last gig to see how it looks with the neighbors of the Slovák near Košice. And this needs to be dealt with. And please, let's not play with those numbers like it doesn't mean anything. That's like 50,000 people having, like, some of the apartment problems right now. Hostels, shelters. They're just normal living people. And it bothers me so much that there's this kind of cold debate going on here about solving a problem because people like me aren't the problem. We want people in the Czech Republic to have a place to live so that they can live with dignity. And there must be a clear procedure at the individual meetings, where it's an MPSV, where there's an MMR, where there's the Ministry of Finance, so there's no law that solves one phenomenon, and doesn't solve it de facto, and on the other hand, we just made another large group of people who move from the 300,000 households that take some benefits, to the 50, 60,000 that are already really screwed up, because they live in those hostels, in those shelters. That's just the problem. So let's look at it this way and please don't throw billions here and mommies with seven grand here. They're all people. Well, that's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u29	Thank you, too. And, please, Vice-President Aulická. Secretary Němcová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So let me also respond to the debate. I didn't want to perform anymore either, but it's more or less not gonna give it to me. Just allow your assistance to my colleague Bartoš. I think that is precisely why we think that this is not really a suitable discussion at the moment on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, because it is necessary to discuss other follow-up problems and follow-up legislation, which, as Minister Němcová and Minister Dostálová also said here, is actually being prepared, and that compliance is really necessary. That is why we think it is not simply to discuss the Chamber of Deputies. And it is really necessary to discuss this, both on the ground not only of the social committee with the relevant Ministry, but for the Committee on Regional Development etc., because the interaction with the municipalities is really, really important. And that's why we see it as a yes, there's just been a draft of two laws or an amendment to two laws, and I don't think it's really appropriate to just have an extraordinary meeting right now, when we don't really know in what form and at what final stage it's going to go to that Chamber of Deputies. So that's one thing. And maybe I'd like to say... I am sorry, but I do think that the 300 000 people who are in this distress and about whom you are here or, through your President, Mr Bartoš has spoken, so unfortunately I do not think that these discussions today really reflect and somehow do not perceive it. They feel it completely, completely different people and, more or less, people who just live the normal life, and which just, the situation, is really long-term, and now I'm gonna say it, it sucks. Offices of employment. I was sitting at the office of work for this amendment, and I can tell you that the office of work told me clearly: We are glad that finally the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs came up with something forceful that we are calling for. Long-term call. Whether we like it or not, there are simply some fundamental changes, whether it is to allow State social support to be investigated. Because by this time, state social support, where 80 percent of the benefits, all benefits, have not been able to investigate the place in the apartments. And I would just add to my colleague Bartošek here - I have, of course, already told him. You know how impossible it is literally impossible to prove that when you come to an apartment where there are 20 people, prove that the 15, 16 that there are visiting. Of course, you can't prove it to them, because the employees of the employment office in cooperation with the city police would have to go there every day with the state police. Every day. And you just can't prove that to them. So that's the problem. [[10.50 hours]] And that we now have a big problem with the influx from the European Union and, above all, from Slovakia, that is, of course, true. Nobody wants to deal with this until now. We have a problem with their socialization at all, because these people are not able to communicate more or less socially and to adapt at all to a normal life, because these people just don't know it. There are fifteen 16 members who come to us in groups, and another family follows them. It's also a problem in education, in health care, but this just doesn't work out anywhere. The effects are really striking. We have a third and fourth generation growing up here that doesn't know the word "work." It's just reality. These people don't know what it's like to work. They don't know work habits, they don't know what it's like to get up for work in the morning, and we can't even get the kids to go to school because they won't get up in the morning. We've got a controlled move. We have 30% of the unfit population in the Ústí Region just because we have controlled moving. From where? Especially from Prague and the Central Bohemia Region. We have an increasing number of illiterate people. In the Ústí Region, it is a forceful number, because we are not even able to teach them to read and write slowly in education. They'll learn their signature tops. Those kids are running to the max, but teachers aren't able to teach them anything. They leave us normally at the age of 15 in the seventh grade because they can't fail more than twice today, so they normally go to work offices in bulk and you don't do anything about them, because nobody wants them anywhere, they don't even have a completed basic education. I'd like to say here, maybe it's somewhere in the proposal, a social committee trip. We had a social committee trip to our region in 2015. Of course, we had other topics, but this was a topic that we were discussing there. And you think something's changed? Past management of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but also for local development, there were de facto baking cooking, and what changed? Nothing. Nothing. Only now is he just coming up with something forceful. Yes, I understand the impact would be somewhere, and that's why we're saying, there has to be a "B" there, whether it's a social housing law or other legislative options for the municipalities and regions themselves. There really is a need to prevent the business of poverty. But I would like to say to you - people in residential hotels, 80 percent of them are people who just couldn't live in their apartments. They left for some reason, whether, of course, debt traps etc., but 80 percent of those people went through a classic, standard housing form and they just couldn't live in apartments, and that's why they stayed, they're and they end up in hostels. It's just reality. If you ask what they'll do to the apartment you give them as a community, they'll just destroy it, devastate it. That's right. I would just like to mention that there are almost no financial implications in the state social support, as proposed, as far as finances are concerned, which means that there are no housing contributions. They really aren't. Yes, there are only other things that would eliminate the possibility of abuse of benefits, and that is especially in that part when permanent residence is cancelled, because unfortunately some families also, and I think they use it commonly, deliberately divide themselves by the fact that the spouses divorce, the husband has reported permanent residence in the village or in the city, and the rest of the family simply receive the benefits they need because they are judged as singles and singles with children. It's just a simple fact. We think that perhaps this change could improve the situation and eliminate these payments. Material emergency - yes, there is above all the non-standard form of housing. But tell me how it is possible to give housing supplements, non-standard housing forms, as well as non-residential space where only the construction office will assess that it is suitable for housing, but where hygiene doesn't go and it doesn't judge. And on the basis of that decision, there may be an additional payment. That means, we ourselves have allowed the legislation to allow the abuse of the housing supplement to these forms of housing, because then we are complaining about how these people live here. Yes, it is true, but we ourselves have made it legislative. That's one thing. I would like to say that they are going there gradually within the framework of legislation, but, of course, this may also be insufficient in the proposal, where even substantial changes are proposed from 1. 7. 2019, but I really think it is based on the considerable consistency of both ministries and in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, and how we will actually unite here across the political spectrum on all the adjustments that are related to this. And what is important and what we are promoting is revision. The whole revision of the uninsurable dosage system at the employment offices, because it's really an outrage what's happening right now. We think that to get to something and succeed in something, first of all, revision is necessary. Now let me make a few more comments. Field work - I have to say that mostly all people involved in this issue, both from the employment office and from the social unions of cities, municipalities, but also in cooperation with the state police or the city police, are trying to address the situation, but unfortunately always only to the level of some final legislation. Believe me, whoever you're sitting in city councils and municipalities, you can hear people coming to you complaining about what to do, that they're sick of living with these people, because one inadaptable family is going to destroy your entire entrance, because they're going to pick up other people and then they're going to destroy your whole house. And why do you think so many people are leaving the Ústecký and Karlovy Vary Region? Because they've had enough. They don't want to be held hostage by other people. You're worried about your kids when they go to school. Today they are normal in the Ústí Region, in the Karlovy Vary region of children's gangs. And whose children are they? Unfortunately, these are the children of most of the inadaptable population. And so far, the police can't do anything about it. And I don't think, for example, children's gangs were just a phenomenon in the Ústí Region or the Karlovy Vary Region. I think it's a phenomenon almost everywhere. That would really be for us. So I would just like to ask you to discuss these issues that are troubling us really on the platforms that are adapted to this, because I don't believe how you're all sitting here, and I don't mean it badly, but you're all kind of focusing on a different subject, that you really understand it, and you could actually say something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u31	I, too, thank you, and please Mrs. Secretary Němcová. President Bartošek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to delay any longer, I think I've had my moment of fame today. However, when it comes to Mr Bartoš in particular, but also to the rest of you, the figures, even if you say no, I see that you are interested in them, and very much so that there is no further disinformation, especially Mr Bartoš, through Mr President, about the numbers. The children are not in the hostels 5,000, the children are 3,205, a total of 13,513 people are. It's for doses per household 8 521 doses per month. If we divide the 8 521 households, or rooms in the hostels as you want, the specific numbers are: 70 percent are individuals. It's 6 204 people out of 13 513 people or out of 8 521 doses. Of the 8 521 doses there are 1,000 doses for two people, 498 doses for three people, 333 doses for four people, that is 333 rooms where three people live, 228 rooms where five people live, 109 rooms where six people live and 70 rooms where even seven or more people live. That's for your information. The second thing I wanted to remind you of in conclusion. Although I believe that and I think that it is very effective, in particular, given your time to pursue bills and novels, when they come here and go through the wheel, however, if I have heard all the previous contributions, I am very happy for them. Thank you so much for them. I'm very optimistic because you all agree across and you approach this very stately, you agree that we all have to care about the public money that we spend. [[11.00 hours]] I'm sure you can all agree across that the dosages today, as they are set, are abused and overused. And I look forward to the fact that if the two amendments come here to the House, you will face them equally across the political spectrum, because that is what these two proposed amendments, even though they are only on the Government's Legislative Council, are all about. That's why we come up with these novels to make something happen. It could have been before, it didn't start, which is why we're coming up with it now. And so that you also have documents and numbers in the pre-election period, if you like them as much as I do, so I would like to say that the specific examples that I have here are about 15, relate to families of complete, incomplete, elderly, disabled, what claims they now have and what claims they then have, I will publish on the Ministry's website, so that if you perform in the media, you do not give false or misleading information, and that, on the contrary, you act very knowledgeable and crediblely, you know things about those proposals that you will talk about. I suppose you'll appreciate that very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u33	Thank you for your speech to the Minister, and now I have three colleagues' requests for a speech in order. I am the first to call on President Bartošek to prepare President Kalousek and then President Michálek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Yes, Madam Secretary, on behalf of the People's Party, I can say that we are ready for this debate. In addition to Secretary Dostálová. The mayor's drawdown is because the conditions are quite complicated. I thank you for the opportunity to meet me, to open the theme of the State Housing Development Fund. I firmly believe that we will find solutions for municipalities so that they can build their housing fund. So thank you for letting us handle this situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u35	Thank you and I will now ask President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u36	Thank you. At this stage of the debate, when factual observations are possible, I signed up with priority rights because I only wanted to respond to Mrs Aulická. She told us here that it wasn't worth discussing in the House of Deputies right now, that it belonged somewhere else, and then she discussed and argued for 15 minutes. I'm sure he's competent. I listened to it with great interest, but it ended with no point in discussing it and therefore the KSČM Members will vote against the agenda of the meeting. Isn't that a little unfair through the President, Madame? Shouldn't they all have the same chance? There are a number of local politicians who have been dealing with this problem in the field. There are people from the Social Committee, from the Budget Committee. I would listen to their point of view with the same interest I listened to you with. But you'd have to let them do that and approve the agenda for the meeting, which I beg of you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u37	Thank you. And now the last enrollment, President Michálek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor. I will only convey some of the opinions of my colleagues who will be prevented from speaking or commenting on this issue, because you are planning to block the approval of the agenda. Colleagues from the Karlovy Vary Region complain that the real cause of people leaving the Karlovy Vary Region is not children's gangs, but that there is a bad economic situation. That's one. Not all cities are like Usti. Speaking of how it looks in individual cities, I would contribute my experience from the capital city of Prague, which is also specific and where there is also a problem that people who have social problems and there are reasons why they should get social housing and they will not get social housing. And one of the reasons why they won't get it is that Prague built new houses in the 1990s for subsidies to the Ministry and installed them - which belong to the capital city of Prague and are social - are subsidized - by judges and prosecutors. So some judges and prosecutors now live in houses owned by the capital city of Prague and pay rent, CZK 60, while the market rent is somewhere around CZK 250 per square metre. So that's how you deal with the subsidised houses that the Ministry pays for. As a result, prominent groups and those who then come to us as representatives should be entitled to maybe get an elderly person who can't move or have enough income to afford standard market housing, so they won't get caught by judges and prosecutors who may have enough salaries to afford it. So I wanted to ask the Minister to include this in her upcoming proposal, so that cities subsidized by apartments are not left to these high-income groups, but to really get to the necessary ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u39	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura, so far last logged in. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor. I deliberately waited for those who could. I must say that there is a really absurd situation where the three ladies who had something to say have told us that it is not a good time and instead of discussing it, then two hours of speaking their arguments, and other colleagues and colleagues would not allow them to speak. That's one. Two. I could have done a maneuver as colleagues from KSČM, apologized and allowed, for example, the vice-chairman of the club, who is Vice-President of the Social Committee, to speak for us with his competent opinion. But I don't think we're supposed to be handing over the priority right to each other, depending on who has the area that's under discussion, in charge of those parties or clubs. I took the job and compared the first programming statement of the Government of Andrej Babiš, meaning this government in demise, with the program statement that is published. I don't know if it's gonna end up or not in the version as it was published, but there's really not enough of those changes, but I don't want to talk about it today. I want to quote a sentence that's in the first, virtually. in the programme statement of the first Babiš Government, which is in the proposal for the programme statement of the second Babiš Government: "The government also declares that it will be subject to scrutiny by the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which is responsible for its activities." One of the tools to control the government at the disposal of the opposition is to convene an emergency meeting. Today is the fifth extraordinary meeting in this parliamentary term. Not for this one, but for some of the previous ones, we approached it from among the opposition at a time when it was not approved a point at a proper meeting. How does the government come to the scrutiny of Parliament, as it writes itself? Here you can see that paper, in this case my tablet, can handle anything. The first three extraordinary meetings took place in such a way that, just as today, only those who have priority rights have acted, and when you calculate the ratio, the government is always at a numerical advantage, because 17, 16 or 15 members of the government have priority rights, then party officials, club leaders, here it is distributed evenly, each side two, and then the House leadership. You all know how politically it's composed. And while the government also declares that it will be subject to scrutiny by the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the first three meetings did not take place because ANO Members, KSČM Members and SPD Members voted against the draft programme. However, on these three sides there is only one government, one is semi-government, colleagues on the left, and one would like to be government, so they're trying to vote with the government to make sure that someone notices that they're ready to be government. So, at this point in time, in fact, government MPs, semi-governmental Members and would-be government Members make it impossible for Parliament to carry out its control role. [[11.10 hours]] We didn't do it today, although my Vice-President and Social Committee Vice-President Jan Bauer are in place, I'm sure he's got something to say for civil democrats, but we're not gonna play that game and hand over priority rights. But what seems really unfair to me, and that is for the Member through the Vice-President, first of all, to take the paška, then here with the priority right to discuss matter and at the same time to say: we have decided that the rest of you cannot have a substantive debate today, that today is not a good time and a good place. I partly agree with that. If you look at the list of Members who signed the application, we're not among them. However, if an important group of Members wants to debate this, I think that the debate has so far been factual, rational, I am not afraid that if the programme had been approved, that the tone of the debate would have turned into some sharp political struggle. I'm not going to substitute the work of Honza Bauer, I'm just going to say that I'm sure in these proposals - and we're aware that these are proposals - there are things that have our support, and there are things that don't have our support, and there are things that are to discuss where we don't have our opinion yet. I think it's better to have an emergency meeting than a seminar. Like, don't bother with an extraordinary meeting right now, we'll do a seminar. You know how often participation is, how complicated it is, we have other committees, other subcommittees, we have some events in the regions, so it always seems so alibiistic to me. I suggest it sometimes, too. If I want to delay something, we interrupt the point. Before eight seminars take place, we'll save a year and meet you there in a year. Today the seminar took place, we had three panelists - the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, the Minister for Regional Development and the Vice-President of the KSČM Club, but the forum could not debate. It's like a special seminar where only the speakers can listen, then they can go home, maybe they can talk about coffee break, and that's it. I'm done, too. I don't think you're supposed to be afraid of the debate. You can vote for the program. In the case of civil democrats, one person who is engaged in this professionally, long-term, will share in detail those parts that we support, those that we do not support, those that we are prepared to discuss, those that we are prepared to discuss. Or we weren't supposed to perform, the seminar wasn't supposed to take place, all three of the performers were supposed to sit down, not have their half-hour performance and deny the right, virtually. their colleagues will deny others the right to respond to these speeches. Then I'd understand, at 10.15 we'd leave, the seminar in September, it's painted. But it's a rather one-sided seminar, it's not a seminar, it's just a lecture of those who can lecture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-14-ps2017-015-01-000-000.u41	Well, I thank the Prime Minister. Now I ask if there is any further interest in the performance. I have no further interest in the speech here, so we will now vote on the whole draft agenda of the 15th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm gonna put you all on hold, of course, so please sign up again with your voting cards. [[Short break.]] So, I think we're already in enough quantity here to vote. I will repeat again - we will now vote on the whole proposal for the 15th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm opening the vote. Whoever is in favour of designing the show, press the button and raise your hand. Whoever is against the design of the show, press the button and raise your hand. In voting number 2, 131 Members voted in favour of 52, against 3, 76 abstentions. The program hasn't been approved. So, honourable Members, we have discussed the agenda of the 15th session of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am ending with this. And I remind the members of the Organizing Committee that the 16th meeting of the Organising Committee will take place today at 13:00. Have a nice day.
