ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-009-028.u1	28. Government bill amending Act No. 320/2001 Coll., on financial control in the public administration and on the amendment of certain laws (the Financial Control Act), as amended (the House Press 261/ - First Reading) On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-009-028.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello again. I present to you the bill amending the law on financial control in public administration. The reason for submitting this proposal is the fulfilment of legislative commitments resulting from the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union. In accordance with the requirements of the directive, the draft law merely extends the scope of the public authorities to which the law on financial control affects. According to the draft law, the public administration is also a new voluntary union of municipalities, a voluntary organisation of the voluntary union of municipalities and the state organization of the Railway Infrastructure Administration. This bill partly implements the European Directive on requirements for Member States' budgetary frameworks. The adoption of the bill will end its transposition into the Czech legal order. The Czech Republic was already sent notice of non-compliance with the deadline of this transposition in 2014. It is therefore essential that the bill be approved as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-009-028.u3	I also thank you, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Roman Kubíček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-009-028.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has presented this press. I'm just gonna fill in some information that didn't come out. The Directive obliges Member States to set up public finance management and control systems in all government sector organisations. The proposed legislation is of a technical nature and extends the scope of the bodies defined by the public authority. The aim of the bill is to extend the scope of the public authorities defined in Section 2 (b). (a) the Financial Control Act in accordance with the requirements of the Council Directive 2011/85 of the European Union. The extension of the public authorities' remit to voluntary associations of municipalities and the state organisation The Railway Infrastructure Administration will ensure a uniform regime for the protection of public funds in all public administration organisations. For this implementation, the expected training will be nine days long, which will be organised by the Ministry of Finance. At the request of the entities concerned, the Ministry of Finance shall organise training or provide methodological assistance in the preparation of internal rules for financial control, for example by means of a tailor-made directive. The directive was not properly transposed until the expiry of the transposition period, therefore it is not yet fully implemented. For this reason, and taking into account the length of the previous transposition period, the transposition of the directive should be completed as soon as possible so that the Commission does not accede to any further steps in the infringement procedure and thus the Czech Republic is not subject to a financial penalty threat. Therefore, I would also like to propose its acceptance pursuant to Section 90. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-009-028.u5	Thank you and I am opening a general debate that I do not have applications for at the moment. If anyone doesn't report to me, which doesn't look like it, I am ending the general debate. If I have noted, there have been no proposals for a return or rejection, so we will deal with the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. I see an application for check-out, so I'm gonna check you out. Please log in with your cards again. So once again, I will repeat for the arrivals what we will be voting on. We will vote on the commandment to the inspection committee as a guarantee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 62. 151 Members are registered, for 135, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that we have ordered this proposal to the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee. Now I would like to ask if anyone is proposing any other committees. It's not like that. Therefore, since there were no proposals for an adjustment, extension or shortening of the deadline, we have already closed the debate and I will end reading this press and see you at second reading. Thank you. Let's move on to point number
