ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u1	130. Government bill amending certain laws in the field of taxation and some other laws /house print 206/ - third reading I ask that Minister Alena Schillerová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, who was the Committee on Budgets, sit at the rapporteur's table, and that is Mr Jiří Dolejš. The amendments are set out in Parliament's Press No 206/3, which was delivered on 6 December 2018. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 206/4. I ask the appellant if she is interested in opening the debate on the speech. Madam Secretary, are you interested in opening words? No, you don't. Excellent. So I am opening up a debate on this point and Mr Ferjenčík is the first to be entered in the debate. [[Restlessness and noise in the Chamber.]] I will ask those who now have something to deal with, if necessary, to transfer their discussions to the lobby and allow for a calm discussion of this point. So, please, calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present here the three amendments that I have tabled to this press, one of which, together with my colleague, Skopeček of the ODS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u3	I'm gonna ask you once more to calm down in the hall. Thank you. [[Member Ferjenčík: Thank you, Mr President.]] I particularly ask the right side to have any discussions outside the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the amendments that I have tabled to this press, one of them together with my colleague, Skopeček of the ODS. In fact, the document as submitted by the government is a real implementation standard that doesn't bring much new. It implements the ATAD Directive and makes really very small changes in tax law. What we are going to vote on today is the amendments by Members. I think that the most important proposal there is, in terms of both the amount of money and changes in our tax system, is the one that my colleague and I Skopeček forward, and that is an increase in the discount on the taxpayer's income tax to CZK 30,000. The discount on the taxpayer is, in fact, a basic instrument that we favour especially low-income people so that they do not pay extremely high labor taxes. Since 2008, it has remained at CZK 25,000, although the average wage has been rising, even though wages have been rising. As a result of the fact that the discount remains fixed on the less than 25,000 crowns, income tax is constantly rising in our country. [[The Treasury Secretary responds at the news desk off the mic.]] That's right, Madam Secretary, I'm gonna try to shed some light on this one more time. Today we have a tax designed to be less than - it's roughly 20 per cent of gross wages, when the supergross wage is recounted against the 15 per cent supergross, so it's about 20 per cent gross wages. In addition, each taxpayer has a discount of less than CZK 25,000. So if someone is going to pay a $100,000 tax, they're going to deduct the $25,000 from it, and they're going to pay only $75,000. That means the discount is more significant in lower income, as a percentage. And by the constant increase in income, the compound labor tax quota is growing, and income taxation is actually increasing. When we look at the taxation of average wages, in 2008, when the average wage was about CZK 20,000, it was some 11 percent. Today, in 2018, it's 13 percent. That is why, in an effort to reduce labour taxation and at the same time to do so in a way that is socially sensitive, so that it can actually find support for the left part of the spectrum, we have proposed an increase in the discount on the taxpayer. In fact, it means a slight increase in tax progression, but it's a measure that everyone just benefits from equally. All taxpayers in the Czech Republic would pay CZK 5,000 less in taxes per year. I counted it, really, even the people who take minimum wage today will still benefit from the increase in the discount in full. We think that at the moment that income, the collection of that income tax is growing by about 20 billion a year, so that one year instead of letting the state keep that money, it should let people compare it to that gap where it hasn't beenvalorized for ten years. [[9.50 hours]] The $30,000 doesn't even copy wage growth, it only copies inflation. If we wanted to valorize directly to wage growth, the discount would be even higher. But we wanted it to be some kind of compromise that has the hope of passing through this House. Therefore, we have submitted, pirát and ODS together, a proposal to reduce income tax in the Czech Republic in the form of an increase in tax discounts so that each taxpayer pays CZK 5,000 less in taxes. The budgetary impact is less than CZK 20 billion, which is offset by the increase in collection of this tax every year in recent years, and is also planning the budget that we approved on Wednesday. So please support this proposal. The Committee has not delivered an opinion on it, it is purely a question of political will in the House. The committee was without an opinion. The other two rather technical amendments that I have tabled, I would like to imagine, and this is the abolition of the explicit implementation of the general anti-abuse rule. This tax code introduces the GAAR rule that the European Union for Legal Persons wants us to do, but we already have it, because it is clearly dealt with by case law. Today, when legal persons tried to circumvent tax law, the courts intervened and gave their right to tax administration and did not allow this to happen, even though there were no expressly any paragraphs. Why am I afraid of introducing the anti-abuse rule in general into tax legislation? This is because it is not only introduced for legal persons, it is introduced into the tax system in general. That means for everyone, including the smallest tradesmen. And I fear that these very people will not be able to defend themselves against the excessive use of this rule by the tax administration, which is why I find it more sensible to remove it. After all, the professional chambers supported this, removing this proposal from the tax system. I think that this is redundant and, above all, compared to the demands of the European Union, it is far from just legal persons, but all of them. On the other hand, if we were to introduce this only for legal persons, it would lead to a question mark on individuals, whether the case law still applies to natural persons at a time when the legislature did not explicitly state this with those natural persons. That's why it makes the most sense to cross it out. It's a purely philosophical dilemma. I think tax legislation is supposed to be more predictable, and when there's something in the law, it's supposed to be true. I think that the legal certainty of the CFI is very important and, unfortunately, it has not been working very well in this country in recent years. The last amendment I tabled is a proposal to abolish the EET cover documents. The Ministry of Finance's proposal extends the use of cover documents, which means the possibility for customs officers to do checks not under their name, but by means of cover documents. While in the area of game room control, I find it even more tolerable, so in the area of EET control, it seems to me really disproportionate to the jurisdiction of the Customs Administration. For this reason, I have proposed the use of cover documents to check the EET to cross off. I will say this once again: if the health and life of customs officers is really threatened, when they control the EET, the problem is somewhere completely different from the fact that they do not have the authority to use cover documents. Thank you once again for considering the support of my amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u5	Thank you. And now with priority rights, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me put in a good word for the amendment that Mr Ferjenčík presented here regarding the increase in the tax rebate. I would like to appeal in particular to the leftist Members. When I imposed one single personal income tax rate in 2007 compared to the previous four, the left was very critical of the fact that we introduced - they called it - a flat tax and that we completely destroyed progress. She wasn't entirely right, she wasn't equal to tax, and we didn't completely destroy progress, because the tax credit was making the tax curve progressive. And even because of tax discounts and children, there were several progressive curves depending on whether the taxpayer was taxing himself or having dependants. As wages grow, progression decreases, something can be called cold degression. After all, reducing progression is something that must be bothered by the left-wing Members. Because the less progression, the less benefits for low-income, the more benefits for high-income. So I believe that, in the interest of the very low-income ones, for whom the tax discount is much more fundamental than for the high-income ones, left-wing Members in particular could support this proposal. Let me appeal to you once more, probably in vain, but I still have to try it, with my two amendments - regarding the solidarity premium and the value added tax. Both the solidarity premium and the increase in value added tax were stabilization measures during the crisis were limited in time to 1. 1. 2016. And in the current legal order, the effectiveness really only applied until 1. 1. 2016. Both these measures were very critical of today's government parties YES and ČSSD. Even though they criticized it so badly, they removed the limited temporal efficiency and kept the taxes so-called one for all the time. I would therefore like to ask you whether, given that it is 2018 and 2019 a week from now, if we do not think that it is enough that we have already collected the taxes compared to the original public agreement, compared to the originally valid law, three years longer than we had. And once again, I dare appeal to the leftist Members, because I can understand that they like the solidarity premium, or if you want the second rate, but I can no longer understand why they like the higher VAT. Especially when they criticized him so badly. You don't want to bring it back to the level where it belongs, according to the original laws, do you, colleagues? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u7	Thank you. Next up, Mr Jurečka is entered into the discussion. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u8	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, dear colleagues, let me briefly comment on the five amendments I have read to this House press before voting in the third reading. Unfortunately, I could not be here at the second reading, so MEPs Pavla Golasowská and Jan Čižinský joined them. This is essentially about these amendments. They concern the adjustment of discounts for children, support for honest working parents, where we propose an increase in the discount on the first child by 500 crowns a month, and then a thousand crowns a month higher discount on the third and another child. We see this as an important step in supporting families in the Czech Republic, parents, all who work honestly, and at the same time we want to eliminate some discrimination that is here in the long term, namely that for those who are low-income but honest-working parents, so today the tax bonus at the level of CZK 60,300 is simply handicaping them, and the parent who has four children and more is not actually the discount anymore and consequently the bonus is supported as supported by those who have the first, second and third children. We also want to eliminate this disproportion, which is why this proposal is here. These are amendments under the letter J. [[10.00 hours]] At the same time, in addition to these adjustments, this means increasing discounts and removing the tax bonus, I also took the liberty of submitting a proposal concerning the introduction of a new discount on children who are studying high school and high school. It is in the amount of CZK 6,300 for a child studying high school, and CZK 12,600 for a child studying high school. We see this as an important step in increasing the chance for children from families where parents have average and below-average incomes to have a chance of achieving quality education, and in view of the cost increase that we see today in many areas, whether it be college, food costs, to contribute by this step to improving and strengthening these families, these parents and, above all, these children and their future. Another amendment is an amendment which already concerns the area of amendment to the VAT Act, namely a proposal aimed not only at increasing household income by reducing VAT, like this tax package. I also try to monitor other multiplier positive effects against the environment. That is why I have taken the liberty of submitting a proposal to reduce the VAT on organic foods. It's a simple thing, because organic foods have a clearly certified consistent system, food is monitored throughout the chain, clearly and transparently labeled, so I don't see any problem here, any concern that it would give any room for possible abuse. Then I took the liberty of submitting a proposal concerning the VAT adjustment in the case of natural gas, where the proposal reduces VAT from 21 per cent to 10 per cent. This is primarily due to the fact that more than 300,000 households are now drowning solid fuels in their boilers, especially brown coal. And when we look at the situation in the Moravian-Silesian Region, or some other regions of the Czech Republic, where, for example, at the end of February or in the first quarter, emission limits are exceeded per capita, it is quite often because even if they are communities that are gassed, it is simply not economically available to those people as natural gas, for reasons of economic heating cheaper fuels, so that is why I want to help this approach. I also wish to propose the last amendment proposed by a group of several Members with me, not only by me as Marian Jurečka, but by Vojtěch Munzar, Petr Pávek, Petr Dolínek, Petr Třešňák and Pavel Staněk. We propose an amendment concerning the reduction of VAT on heat and heat and cold supplies. The point is that we are really responding to the problem of enormous increase in emission allowances prices, which have increased fourfold over the last six months. These prices are not expected to fall, and since this will, of course, have a logical direct impact on heat customers within the central heat supply, which is roughly 1.7 million households in the Czech Republic, it applies to 4.2 million inhabitants of the Czech Republic, and the increase in the coming months or years would be relatively jumping, so we decided to respond with this amendment to this situation in order to mitigate the effects in order to reduce the VAT on heat and cold supply from 15 to 10 percent. The impact on the state budget here can be expected somewhere between 1 and 2 billion, but it is richly offset by the revenue to the state budget from the enormous increase in the price of emission allowances. In order to undermine the concept of the state budget, these amendments that I have presented, most of them have been effective until 1 January 2020. So thank you for voting in support of the amendments, whether they are the proposals you have under letter B by Pavla Golasowská, under letter L in the case of Jan Čižinský and then under letter J. Thank you for their support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u9	Good morning, honourable Members. Let's keep going. Before I give the floor to Mr Jand, I state that there has been an apology from the meeting between 10 and 12 o'clock from Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, who was delivered to the President of the House. Now, Mr. Jakub Janda. Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support my amendment under the letter H. This is a reduction in the limits of the so-called VAT refund from CZK 2,000 to CZK 750. Unfortunately, the position of the Ministry of Finance is negative, but I believe that this is a misunderstanding in the calculation of how the change will manifest itself in the state budget. The Ministry states that the change will result in a loss of income of CZK half a billion. This figure cannot correspond to reality, because at present the total amount of VAT recovered is slightly over CZK 1 billion, and this is the return of purchases from CZK 2,000 to CZK several million. That it would be possible to reach a quantity in the range of purchases of between 751 and 2,000 crowns, nor does it confirm any foreign experience. I remind you that the VAT refund for one purchase for CZK 751 is CZK 130. Economists of the Chamber of Commerce worked out an impact study two years ago, which talks about CZK 60 million, but which will return to the economy. I therefore ask you once again to support this amendment, which has the broad support of Czech economic operators, tourism, especially the Trade and Tourism Union, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Regions, where the President is Mrs. President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, the Union of Towns and Municipalities. There is also support across the political spectrum, as these are measures supporting economic growth, tourism, regional development, Czech production and trade. I'm asking for your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u11	I thank Mr Jakub Jand. Now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, Mr Polanský will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention and hope for a kind eye on the four proposals that I would like to comment on here. The first proposal, which we are submitting together with Mr Volný and President Stanjura, is to return the limit for the application of tax spending flats for the CFI back to the limit of CZK 2 million. Entrepreneurs are an important engine of our country, and they therefore deserve the simplest possible rules to pursue their work. The state should appreciate active people for whom it should create a friendly environment. And I see spending flats as one of the cornerstones of supporting business in our country. That is why I should thank the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Budgets for a positive opinion. We have already put forward this proposal once, there were seven votes missing at the time. Unfortunately, he didn't pass, so I believe he'll have your support today. The second proposal, which Mr Jurečka spoke of in part, is a reduction in VAT from 15 to 10 per cent per heat and cold. This proposal is presented in addition to Marian Jurečka, me, Petr Pávek, Petr Dolínek, Petr Třešňák and Pavel Staněk. The current situation in the emission allowance market led us to this proposal, where the price of emission allowances has increased four times since the beginning of the year. It is artificial growth caused by the amendment of the European Union Directive and this artificial increase will be reflected in heat prices for final consumers. It is precisely the aim of our proposal that this artificial increase in prices is partly to compensate households by reducing VAT. So in this case, I also thank the Committee on Budgets for supporting this proposal, which is under the designation J1. [[10.10 hours]] The third proposal I submit for myself is compensation in the event of an unlawful decision or an incorrect procedure by the tax administrator. This proposal is referred to as J2 and I want to heal inequality before the law. Imagine that, on the one hand, you have a taxpayer who has been wrongly charged with a tax or penalty and is entitled to compensation for damages and compensatory interest, and on the other hand, you have a taxpayer who has also been unduly charged with a tax or penalty, although he is entitled to compensation, but no longer entitled to compensatory interest. And the only difference is whether it's divided or not tax administration. The only difference is how the state divided it internally. It seems unfair and wrong to me, because the taxpayer cannot influence this. It's just a state decision. The Supreme Administrative Court also drew attention to this inequality, and I want to abolish this inequality with my amendment. Therefore, despite the negative position of the Ministry of Finance and Budget Committee, I would also like to ask you to support this proposal under the designation J2. And the last proposal I want to make is a proposal that is, alternatively, under the designation J3, J4. It is that the scope, quantity and structure of data required by the Financial Administration from taxpayers on tax forms, so this scope, quantity and structure of data should be given by law or by law, because the failure to provide such data results in sanctions and inefficiency of submission. Today, the extent and form of the data is actually determined by the Ministry of Finance or the Financial Administration, which is a constitutionally unconformed situation, which was also brought to the attention of a group of senators, who even turned to the Constitutional Court. My proposal, which also has the support of the Chamber of Tax Advisors of the Czech Republic, proposes to resolve this in a way that is common in other departments, i.e. by decree, under the law, because according to the legislative rules of the Government, the creation of the decree has its own legislative process, including inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, where the public, including the expert, can comment on this before such a decree is given. Therefore, please support the J3, respectively. J4. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u13	I thank Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Mr Polanský will now prepare Mr Tomáš Martínek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u14	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the amendment under G. This is the liberalisation of homemaking, or domestic production of beer. The proposal actually contains three changes. First, it increases the limit of beer that people can cook at home in a year, from 200 grand to 2,000. It then softens the rules for recording brewed beer for domestic producers and, thirdly, abolishes the obligation to register forward homeowners at the Customs Administration. Please support the amendment in particular because, in our view, by adopting this legislation, we are legalising the current situation, because domestic beer producers in most cases, I would say, over the top, do not meet the requirements as well. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u15	I thank Mr Polanský and Mr Tomáš Martínek, Mr Skopeček will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support my five amendments to the tax package. These are amendments M1 to M5. They all have a de facto positive impact on public finances, citizens and civil servants. First of all, I would like to mention Amendment M1, which extends the deadline for the submission of an electronic tax return by one month and addresses other legislative uncertainties in this area. The Czech Republic has one of the shortest deadlines for submitting a tax return and at the same time the lowest share of electronically submitted tax returns in the EU. I would like to read here the report by the Chamber of Tax Advisors on this amendment, which unfortunately only came out after the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, which was unable to reflect that opinion and did not adopt on this amendment to the resolution: "As we have already informed in connection with the present tax package 2019, the Chamber supports some amendments. Such undoubtedly include the proposal for an amendment concerning the deadlines for filing a tax return. First of all, this proposal positively motivates taxpayers to communicate electronically with the tax administrator, which we support as a chamber in the long term," says Jiří Nesrovnal member of the Presidium. "In addition, this proposal removes many interpretational uncertainties, which currently make tax administration unnecessarily difficult in the area of the time limits for filing returns and bring uncertainty to taxpayers," added Tomáš Hajdušek, Head of the Tax and Fees Administration section. "The proposal in question removes unnecessary risk in the event of unintentional misconduct of taxpayers or failure to meet deadlines due to their busyness. In these situations, they can either save the situation by electronic filing a tax return or by using tax advisors' services. The benefit of the amendment is also a zero negative impact on the revenue of the state budget and the simplification of tax administration on the part of the tax administrator." This is the Chamber of Tax Advisors of the Czech Republic. I would also like to thank the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, who has promised me that she is counting on my amendment in the framework of the Government Bill. However, I would like to justify why it is appropriate to approve this amendment as soon as possible, preferably today, and to send out a positive signal to digitise the public administration. The General Financial Directorate has these concerns about the proposal through the Ministry of Finance. The first is whether they will be able to modify the information systems. And second, if it is not necessary to change other laws within the framework of the change. In the first case, it is precisely appropriate to adopt this amendment today, when, according to this amendment, the return will not be submitted until 2021 and will therefore be more than two years for the adjustments. There'll be plenty of time for this little editing of information systems. More than when it is adopted next year in the framework of legislation on the portal My taxes or the like. And since the legislation is being prepared, it is appropriate to once again adopt the amendment now so that other changes to legislation can be adopted, if necessary, within the framework of this legislation. I therefore ask all of you to support Amendment M1, which the Chamber of Deputies can demonstrate its sincere efforts to digitise public administration. Shortly to my other amendments. Amendment M2 is rather an administrative change that allows the deductibility of donations provided to the public media from the tax base, so that donors no longer need to specify the complex purpose of use as now and money could be used for, for example, digitising broadcasting or archives. It would allow these media to create a platform for voluntary donors. Amendment M3 addresses the issue of determining the tax base only using the usual price for virtual currency payments, so-called. crypto-shifting. As defined in the explanatory memorandum, the proposed government regulation repeals the possibility of determining the price by using the exchange rate against EU recommendations and is likely to be contrary to it. This proposal abolishes the adjustment and thus leaves the current situation in which the price can be determined both on the basis of the normal price or exchange rate. Amendment M4 abolishes a senseless condition which discriminates against the situation of Czech players. On the online poker platforms, which have a Czech license and pay taxes here, there is an absurd situation where players from other countries can play tournaments from the beginning, while players joining from the Czech Republic, including tourists, must wait for the possibility of entering the tournament until the absurd Czech legal condition of the composition of 50 per cent of the guaranteed winnings is met. Paradoxically, this leads players to circumvent the law via VPN or use platforms without a license that do not comply with Czech laws and do not pay taxes for players from the Czech Republic to the state budget. The disadvantage then is that the player plays gambling on servers that do not have a Czech license and does not pay taxes to the Czech authorities. This proposal should help increase tax collection and eliminate the grey zone. The M5 amendment then increases the amount that can be paid to players from guaranteed winnings from 95 per cent to 98 per cent, i.e. to a similar amount as for other games. Once again, I would like to ask you all to support these sensible proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u17	That was Mr. Tomáš Martínek. And Mr Jan Skopeček is the last party to the debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to say a few words on this point on this amendment. In general, it must be said that this is, of course, no systemic change in our tax legislation. This law does not go to simpler and lower taxes, which the Czech Republic would need for its higher competitiveness. It is not for us to jump from that unflattering place where the complexity of our tax environment, where we are truly below average, compares internationally. The amendment is rather technical, implementation. However, a number of interesting amendments have been made to it, which do not change the comprehensive tax system, but they are going in a good way and may mean partial tax reductions or partial tax simplifications. Of course, I would very much like to ask you to support what the government has promised for a long time, to have it in various coalition contracts and government statements, whether this or the previous one, and that is the abolition of a super-gross wage, a thing that we have been expecting from this government for a long time, although it also promises for a long time. Another thing I would like you to support is the increased attractiveness of spending flats. You know very well that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in recent years must endure much from the ANO movement in particular. The unprecedented level of regulation that is growing affects our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in particular. And if we want to strengthen domestic capital in the Czech Republic, we must help small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in particular to become larger, perhaps even successful international companies in the future. However, why I am speaking in particular is also trying to draw your attention to our joint amendment with our colleague Ferjenčík, who we have submitted for our clubs, and this is an increase in the basic discount on the taxpayer's income tax of natural persons, an increase of CZK 24,840, which was thus set in 2008 to CZK 30,000, which is about 21%. Why we come up with this, he has two reasons, virtually. One, but there are two reasons to explain it. While the economy has not stopped, both average wage and inflation are rising, the basic discount on the taxpayer has, unfortunately, remained the same in absolute value since 2008. What does that mean? This means that both because of the rise in average wage and because of inflation growth, the relative importance of this basic discount on the overall taxation faced by the taxpayer is, of course, decreasing. It's happening in two channels. One channel is inflation, which increased by more than 20 percent accumulated between 2008 and 2017. When we look at the second channel, where the relative importance of the basic discount decreases, this is the increase in the average gross wage, it even grew by 30%. However, the basic tax discount has not increased since 2008. What does that mean? It means that without the State doing anything, the taxpayer is burdened with a higher tax burden without any compensation. If we wanted to return the relative importance of the basic discount to the level of average wage growth, the basic discount would have to increase to up to CZK 32 440. My colleague Ferjenčík and I, in order to increase the likelihood of adopting this amendment, have taken the second step and we are increasing this basic discount only on inflation, so we are trying to meet the current government coalition in this sense. We are trying not to make the impact on public budgets so dramatic that it is acceptable to the current government coalition. Therefore, we propose to increase the basic discount by only about 20 per cent to the 30,000 CZK. I would also like to emphasise what Mr Kalousek said here, after all, that this proposal is also intended to address left-wing voters and left-wing Members. Right-wing Members, I hope, will raise their hand for this, because it reduces taxes, reduces taxpayers' tax burden. I would like to say to the left-wing Members that this means a higher degree of progression in our tax system. Although the right-wing government introduced, as was right here, not a flat tax, but a flat or uniform rate, the basic deductible item has just included a certain degree of progression, which, for the reasons that I was talking about, both because of inflation and the increase in average gross wage, has fallen into it. Today, my dear colleagues from the left side of this hall, you have a chance with this simple amendment to reverse this progression to the level of 2008. Even the reduction in the tax burden isn't dramatic. We're not talking about a jumping tax burden reduction, we're just going back to the price level of 2008. That is why I hope it will be acceptable to the left as well. In order to avoid problems with the government's recently approved state budget, my colleague Ferjenčík and I agreed that the effectiveness of this law will apply from 2020, which means that the government, the Ministry of Finance, has sufficient time to prepare for the 2020 budget for a loss of revenue in order to increase this basic discount. I would also like to point out that this blackout is not dramatic in the context of how we grow every year to collect total taxes, but also personal income taxes. There's a blackout of about 20 billion. CZK, which is indeed an increase in the collection of personal income tax, which is repeated regularly every year. So the state will lose only one year's increase in the collection of personal income tax. I do not know how I would have made this amendment more attractive so that you would support it. I think that's a really reasonable way to go. All of you who apply to the PR campaign of the trade union "end of cheap work," which I really consider as a PR campaign than anything real or meaningful, so in this proposal you have a very quick chance of increasing people's net incomes. It's a very quick and effective way to keep people more in their wallets. When we talk about wage growth in the state sector, about income growth, you very often mention the importance of high consumption on gross domestic product growth. If we save the citizens of the Czech Republic about CZK 5,000 a year by this proposal, this is an amazing contribution to making their higher disposable income more able to increase consumption, which will be reflected again in higher tax collection. This means, of course, what the state will lose when taxpayers do not pay him a personal income tax, they will return to that economy through consumption and through the collection of other types of taxes into the state budget. The last argument I make here is the coming Christmas. I think that we all have a great chance across the political spectrum to give a relatively nice Christmas present to taxpayers, and therefore, in connection with the coming Christmas Day, I ask you to be in this Chamber of Deputies in the quotes of ježíšek and to grant taxpayers a higher basic tax discount. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u19	Thank you. That was Mr. Jan Skopeček. Mr Ferjenčík's point of order now. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm just very brief. I wanted to support Mr Tomáš Martínek's amendments, in particular the proposal which extends the deadline for submitting a tax return electronically by one month. There they actually earn both taxpayers who can choose whether to do it a month later or not, and at the same time they also earn the tax administration, which by getting the data electronically, it will be easier for her to process. It is therefore a proposal of the M1 and has received a neutral opinion from the committee. I ask you very much here at the House plenary for support. There's a long enough time to delay efficiency, it's only from 2021, in case the Ministry discovers any details that still need to be corrected, so that there's enough time. [[10.30 hours]] There is no factual argument against this proposal. The only argument that the Ministry, which, by the way, had prepared him, did not support him is because it said it took more time to consider other aspects. As soon as it's been in 2021, I think we could really send out the signal that the electronisation of public administration is a priority for us. Just as the committee was neutral to him, I would like the Ministry to consider reconsidering its position and supporting this proposal. Furthermore, I would very much like you to support the M4 and M5 proposals that equalize Czech poker servers. The Gaming Act has effectively liquidated Czech poker, and all it has done is that Czech players play abroad and do not pay taxes here. We think it's very reasonable to straighten out the environment, once again, the state will make -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u21	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. [[Yes.]] And now another point of fact, Mrs Jana Černochová. [[Proper.]] In that case, if it is not factual, then a colleague Pavel Staněk is registered. dobře, my colleague Staněk, with a factual remark and a priority right, I'm filing an application for Ms. Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u22	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to draw your attention once more to the amendment that regulates the VAT on heat and cold, because I feel that there is a relatively divided view of this matter. I agree with the statement that we have received that this is a short-term measure that does not address the whole issue systemically, but I would like to ask for the support of this proposal and my colleagues, because it is really a kind of ceiling of the psychically acceptable level of the heat price from central sources, which, when it reaches this psychological level, is likely to be massively disconnected from the central supply. And this is very bad news for us in the future, because central supply has a truly irreplaceable place in the supply of heat, especially in the supply of heat, in virtually all major cities, in all regions of our republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u23	I thank my colleague Staňek. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I didn't mean to abuse tech. Ladies and gentlemen, I think thanking you is not a weakness in any action and sector of our lives. So let me thank the Minister of Finance Schillerová today for meeting my request, the proposal to exempt the brewery school from excise duty. We originally went the way of the amendment in another legal standard. I would also like to thank Mr Kotta there, because we have also discussed these matters within the Committee on Economic and Budget, and we have finally agreed to choose this form, that the proposal will be added to the tax package. In the meantime, the director of the brewery school, who is in Prague 2 in Podskalská Street and celebrated the 150th anniversary, met with officials from the Ministry of Finance, explained some things that were neither legislatively clear nor methodologically clear before. So my contribution is actually almost Christmas, so harmonious. And so I thank the Minister for her fulfilling her promise and what we agreed on to exempt from the absurd tax of a school that does not sell its products, so she only has them for study purposes, so that they have met the requirement and that common sense has triumphed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u25	Thank you, Mrs Černochová, and I ask who is reporting from the scene because all the applications for the debate have been exhausted. If no one... President of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura in the debate. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u26	Thank you for the floor. Some colleagues from our club were performing, so I would just briefly introduce you to the overall position of our club on the amendments. Of course, we will be happy if you support our amendments, whether they relate to spending flats - we always have some colleagues there, so I will not always read all the co-submitters, because we are not alone with some of the amendments, but we also have colleagues from other parliamentary clubs. So we'll be happy to support the return of spending flats to 2 million, and we'll be glad if you support the increase in basic deductible items, we'll be happy if you support the reduction in VAT to heat. We will certainly be happy if you would support the abolition of the supergross wage and the increase in net wages for our employees. I would stop at this point, because the Ministry of Finance's argument is quite understandable. The Ministry of Finance estimates a public budget deficit of around 55 billion. It sounds like a huge number, but we have to figure out where the money would go, the 55 billion. They'd remain employees! So the proposal brings in employees' pockets, not entrepreneurs', but employees', 55 billion. I think, at a time when you talk to employers today, employers will confirm that their economic space for further increases in salaries and incomes is simply reducing this space, and here is a tool to increase our employees' net incomes without increasing employers' costs. And it would concern all employees regardless of whether they work in the public sector, in the public sector or in the private sector. We will certainly support many of our fellow Members' amendments. We will support the re-establishing of two VAT rates, we will lose the very frequent squabbling and disputes which items which commodities, which services convert from 15% VAT to 10%. Yesterday, the Senate approved a VAT reduction of 10 per cent in public transport, and there are several items within the EET that are proposed to be transferred from 15 to 10. Yes, we're not questioning that. The savings, virtually. The reduction in public budget revenues is over 3 billion, approximately 3.5 billion. However, we are in favour of every tax reduction. I'd like to stop by the edge thing, maybe, and that's the online poker game. The Treasury is against it, and I don't understand it. If we say that we want to increase tax revenue, and if we see that we are not competitive on this particular issue, and the amendment goes in the direction that it actually gives the same rate as in the surrounding countries, that is, not that we would create a gambling den here and some oasis of gambling, but it just gives a chance to increase the revenue of the Czech state budget, because if we do not, then the money, the taxes from this particular commodity will end up in the budgets of other countries and not in the Czech state budget. If the amendments, at least some of them, pass, then we are prepared to support the bill as a whole as a civil democrat club. I forgot the last amendment where I would like to ask for your support, and that is the amendment under D2 and this proposal concerns excise duty on beer. I have already said at first or second reading that the then official government raised this rate for a transitional period in the framework of the Janotův package, then estimated a year or two, now ending the eighth tax period. If we look at this objectively, we will find out and repeatedly point out to those who produce beer that, unlike wine, they are burdened with excise duties. And we have two paths: either we tax wine, which we consider to be a misguided path, or at least we reduce the excise duty on beer a little bit. We consider this to be the right path and at least a partial approach to the conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u27	I thank Mr Zbyněk Stanjur and now the rapporteur in the debate. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u28	In all brief, in view of the last day before Christmas, I would like to add the mosaic of information to you that the Christmas appeal of my colleagues on the left that right-wing tax cuts in this case can also find a kind of response for those who have a heart on the left, so this debate took place on the budgetary committee. And I have to say that even though we also see the need to finally cancel the super gross wage, that we too would like to have low-income categories have higher net income, and we, too, have been there in the previous parliamentary periods, so you will remember it, suggesting a more radical and, at the same time, a simpler VAT adjustment, i.e. back to two rates, so I have to say that it has been said and it will sound even now that when two do the same, it is not exactly the same. If this bill has been called rather partial, which does not entail a systemic tax change, I would venture to say that such tax proposals, which mean a deficit on the income side - the 20 billion, which are the increased discounts on Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Skopeček's cases, or the abolition of the solidarity tax of the current 23 percent, and in particular the introduction of only two VAT rates, where the loss of CZK 50, maybe 60 billion would be, such an unbalanced intervention, with the economy growing, and thus catching up with mere growth, we do not consider it to be thoughtful. We've always compensated it in the past with other tax proposals that went up. So we are for a stable tax quota, but a more solid structure of the tax burden. That's the point. And if this doesn't happen, even though the economy may be growing for some time, I think it's reducing the tax quota - and now we're talking about a net tax quota, so we're not dealing with levies that move at a rather reasonable level when we compare it with OECD countries, that's not our approach. So we would like to agree on similar subjects maybe in the next period. This is not part of the government's programming statement, it is not part of any agreements, but the subject will undoubtedly be because, given the increasing pressure, the profitability of public finances, the revenue-side measures will undoubtedly be appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u29	Thank you. But I have two more factual points here, Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Skopeček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u30	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to the rapporteur. I don't think that's exactly what he's saying. Because the average personal income tax in the Czech Republic is increasing as wages rise. And we're trying to get this situation straight. Our change is really technical, because it's inflation valorization. It's not a system change. And if we expect relatively significant wage growth next year, then logically, the taxes will rise a little bit. So the tax quota goes up. And if you want to keep it, you should support our proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Skopeček's point of order now. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u32	I was going to say something similar in other words. Because if the rapporteur wants to maintain a stable tax quota, the logic must be that he will support this amendment, because if he does not support it, he will support that progress will continue to decline. I don't know if it's consistent with the world's left-wing vision, but maybe it is. Growth in the basic discount is not a complex system... or a systemic change in the tax system. It's just a set-up. It is only a response to the fact that this basic discount has not increased since 2008, while inflation has increased and average gross wages have increased. There's no tax burden down here. This is where he returns to level 2008. If you want to return the rate of progression to 2008, you must support this proposal. As far as reservations are concerned, it's a public budget blackout. This blackout, in quotation marks, will not be realized until 2020. So the government will have enough time in preparing the state budget to deal with this blackout. The blackout's tiny. A colleague of Ferjenčík said so. The collection of personal income tax grows annually by about 20 billion. Crowns. In 2019 alone, the state budget provides for a higher collection of 150 billion. CZK in addition to the approved budget of the year ending. So we're talking about a very small amount here. And the arguments that my colleague here said simply don't apply. If it wants to support progress and to support a stable tax quota, it must also support this amendment. And never again, if he doesn't support it, you can't stand up with unionists for some sort of demonstration and say you want the end of cheap work. Now's your chance to increase people's net income.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u33	Thank you for your respect for the factual point. The rapporteur's point of fact. And it is duly registered, Mrs Pekarová. And I'm asking the Minister of Health if he's signed up for the debate. No.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u34	In fact, the previous speaker confirmed my words that when two do the same thing, it's really not, it's not the same thing. Even if the amendment - we see how it turns out - doesn't pass, we will stand on the square with the trade unionists, because we are looking at progress, which also has an element of solidarity. Please note that from the same membership club, there is a motion to abolish the millionaire premium, that they are repeatedly fighting to make progress even upwards, i.e. the higher income category bands. You're just trying to get your hands on those under-averages. That's Godly, but if progression, then progression. So even upwards and towards the higher income categories. I think that this topic is, if you want to be effective from 2020, we have the whole first half of 2019 to discuss this and maybe to put forward a parliamentary or other legislative proposal on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I have two further factual points, but before that I will read Mr Vlastimil Válek's apology, from 11 to 14 hours he apologizes for work reasons. Mr Ferjenčík's point of order now. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u36	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to briefly respond to my colleague Dolejš. I'm a little unfair when it connects the proposal to abolish the solidarity tax with the proposal to increase the discount on the taxpayer. We do not support the proposal to abolish the solidarity tax as the pirát, because we have covered social security contributions, so millionaires pay lower taxes if we count contributions than the middle class, and that doesn't seem fair to us. That is why we believe that it is appropriate for the solidarity tax to remain preserved. And for that reason, I find it very unfair to link the debate here about increasing the discounts on the taxpayer, which help all employees equally, and the poorest employees will feel it most strongly. So linking it to the abolition of solidarity tax seems very unfair to me. The pirates are not proposing to abolish the solidarity tax. We propose to reduce all employees in this country by CZK 5,000 a year. And I am very surprised that the KSČM does not support this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And we have other factual points. Now, Mr Skopeček, Mr Klaus and Mr Jurečka. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u38	I do not think that Mr Dolejš will simply lie out of it. In short, there are several amendments. Are you saying that for each amendment, you decide whether or not a fellow Member has submitted ten others and, by chance, the eleventh of which is bad? After all, there are two amendments, one to cancel the solidarity premium, one to the basic discount. And you don't want to support the basic discount because some x-th amendment isn't in your world's ideal vision? This is how you treat other laws with amendments, that you decide whether the amendment is good or not, but do you decide on what else the Member has submitted or failed to submit? [[You don't decide]] We can't act like this, we can't decide on amendments like this. You have a chance to vote against the abolition of the solidarity premium. You can put it in a vote. And you will also have a chance to support a higher basic discount in the next vote, and thus a higher progression. [[10.50 hours]] This is a very socially sensitive measure. After all, the basic discount is more important for low-income groups than for high-income groups. By not voting in favour of this amendment, you will damage the low-income population. It's clear! It's clearly proven. And if you're going to stand with the union for some demonstration where you're going to fight for the end of cheap work, we'll always remind you that you didn't vote here to increase taxpayers' net income very quickly and efficiently, and to raise relatively more of the low-income ones you like to talk about, but if you can do something for them, you're not going to do anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u39	Thank you for putting the time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Václav Klaus, also a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u40	Hello, I'm sorry, I don't want to drag this out. My colleague Skopeček said about 90 percent of what I would say, so I'm just gonna do it again. We want to reduce taxes to all citizens of the Czech Republic - poor, rich, men and women. I do not fully understand your argument, Mr rapporteur, through Mr President. You're saying I'm against it to add poor people, lower their taxes, because theoretically it could also reduce the tax on millionaires. That's the argument of an unworthy reporter of such an important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Marian Jurečka's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u42	Thank you. There's one more thing I'd like to decide about this discussion. If, indeed, in the current government coalition, Communists are concerned with how to support the citizens of the Czech Republic, especially the low-income ones, so please support the amendments that I have read here, which concern increasing the discount on children, the reduction of the tax bonus. It is the greatest effect we can get, encourage people, motivate them to work honestly, legally, and with a three-member family it can do 24,000 crowns a year. Thus, with a family with three children, this increase in the discount that I propose may be CZK 24,000 each year, which will remain in their family budgets for those parents. If there is one kid in high school and one kid in college, it is in total 42,000 crowns that we can give these families this decision from next year, and then there is postponed efficiency to 2020. It's effective, and it's even in line with your coalition government's programming statement. So please back up nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with priority rights, the Minister of Health. Mrs Pekarová will be ready. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to briefly comment on President Stanjura's proposal under number D2 concerning the reduction of excise duty on beer. I don't know, of course I was looking at the justification for the financial implications, but I really don't think that the high price of beer is a major problem in our company in the Czech Republic. On the contrary, beer is often one of the cheapest drinks, often cheaper than soft drinks, and from my point of view this is simply not entirely happy. You may have noticed the last study that was carried out, a very comprehensive study on the impact of alcohol drinking on society, which was evaluated at CZK 59 billion, which costs the Czech Republic a year to drink alcohol in terms of health, social, etc. I don't think this is simply a good way to reduce the excise duty on beer. Although it may seem popular, I, as Minister of Health, really cannot agree with that. We as the Czech Republic today, I have said this here and during the discussion of other laws, we are others in the world when it comes to alcohol consumption. I am not saying not to drink alcohol, but I do not think this is simply a positive location of the Czech Republic. Only Lithuania is ahead of us. Any such action should simply be reasonable in terms of what impact it will have and reducing the excise duty on beer from my point of view goes against any policy concerning the harmfulness of drinking alcohol to Czech citizens in terms of health and social impact. So I dare not agree with this proposal and, of course, I give consideration to the Chamber of Deputies as to how it will proceed, but it is a very negative and potentially harmful step that simply does not improve the situation, and the situation is simply not good today. The statistics are clear, and this will only lead to deterioration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u45	I thank the Minister of Health, but we have four more factual points. Mr Stanjura, colleague Benešík, Jurečka and Skopeček. Now, Prime Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact. I'll give you my word right now, but I'll ask the House for peace. I understand that all the discussions have been exhausted once and that we have been looking forward to the vote, but that has not been the case, so I am going to ask the debates that are not related to this press in principle in the foyer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u46	Thank you. So the reason for my amendment, and it is described there, is the promotion of mini-breweries, the change in beer culture, the fulfillment of the promise of another government, etc., the settlement of the excise duty of various types of alcohol. But I would almost take what the Minister of Health says seriously. Only almost. He has once again demonstrated a double approach. You have heard in the debate about EET, which has been here several times, that the Minister of Health would come out and say: Lithuania is the only one who is worse off! The idea of reducing VAT to beer is wrong! As Minister of Health, it may be popular, but I'm protesting it. - Well, we didn't hear. Minister through the Vice-President, how did you vote on the Government for the EET Bill? You're gonna support a reduction in VAT on beer, aren't you? I'd really like to know. And if you support the reduction of VAT on beer and at the same time you are against the support of small mini-breweries in particular, because it is partially harmonising the tax, that is, in order to relieve the smallest, we must relieve everyone, so here you are telling us how wrong it is, how we drink the beer and how you fight it. So always fight or always shut up!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Benešík's point of order now. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly how it is. After all, I have seen several proposals to reduce the tax on beer from the YES movement from the Prime Minister several times in the past. And today, the Minister of Health will step out of his movement and say the opposite. So just get it straight. We really don't know what you want in opposition. Lower, lower, drink more, or drink less. Anyway, it's conflicting. So we'd like to know if the Minister of Health is holding a line with the entire government, because if Mr. Babiš isn't sleeping, he's dreaming or what it is. He's dreaming and not dreaming. And that's where he wants cheap beer. And apparently the Minister is dreaming, or sleeping in a different way, because it is in complete contradiction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jurečka's point of view. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u50	It must be hard for Schizma to enter the government as a minister, vote for the government's trust here, have a government statement on the table that says something I fundamentally disagree with as a member of the government. I don't know how this works for a very long time, but it's interesting to see these expressions of opinion here. I just want to say to the Minister that I have not yet seen any relevance between whether VAT on certain types of alcohol is increasing or not. excise duty that would affect the Czech nation in terms of consumption of these types of alcoholic beverages. If the Ministry of Health has any such study, or the Ministry of Finance, it would be good in terms of some really effective decision making here to demonstrate some tax elasticity in this matter. After that, we can deal seriously with this. But I really do not think that by not reducing VAT here, or by increasing it, we will affect the cultural habits of the Czech nation. As Moravák and musician, I have to say that I have a relatively positive relationship with beer, wine, slivovitz and other types of distillate, and I will not change it in my life with regard to how VAT will change. I really reject this controversy here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Skopeček's point of order now. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u52	Thank you. I would also like to respond through the President to the Minister. I mean, okay, not pejorative. I believe in his sincere efforts to health the Czech population, but it always wants to think about it. The demand for alcohol is non-elastic, at least that's what economists say. This means, in fact, that when the price of alcohol increases, for example, due to a higher tax by a percentage, the decline in consumption is less than one percent, which in the finals means that because of the excise duty, citizens spend more money on alcohol and they have less on the remaining goods, such as fruit and vegetables. So in the finals, of course, it can and often leads to such good ideas, bad endings, worsening the health of the population. So, Minister, if you want to spread the good in society, then think about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u53	Good morning, dear colleagues. I have two more factual points here. The first is Mr Václav Klaus and Mr Ondřej Benešík will be prepared. I would ask the Chamber of Deputies to keep it down, because after all, we are coming to the finals of this point, and it would be good for us to know what is under discussion. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u54	I would have responded to the Minister of Health. I have to say, I don't agree with you very much, I've presented it here several times when we were talking about waterboats, but now after that week's Christmas party marathon, maybe I understand you a little bit more, like 0.1 percent than before. But if we look at it factually, if we lower the beer tax, people will drink less booze when it comes to the welfare of society, because people, of course, respond to the price. Beer is a drink that has the least alcohol from what people drink. We don't have any tax on any kind of alcohol, on wine, on the Window, etc. So cheaping people's beers isn't bad, it's also a relatively good policy, so please don't torpedo it here with your minority opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u55	Another is the factual remark of Mr Ondřej Benešík, Mr Pavel Kováčik will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. On the contrary, I would like to support the Minister. I think he spoke very reasonably, and I agree with his views. I was just pointing out the contradiction between the official line, if that's what I can call the book, maybe it would be good - we all know the Prime Minister didn't write it, which I don't think is a public secret, but it would be good if he at least read it and if members of his movement read it, so they know what he's writing there. But what the Minister said is very reasonable, I completely agree with it, but there is simply a fundamental contradiction. Otherwise, like the Margo of the Okena, I've seen a joke like that somewhere. Someone said vodka smells like Okena, and somebody said it's not true, vodka smells like Okena.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u57	Thank you. President Pavel Kováčik, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u58	Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, at this point I would like to apologize to all those who, naturally before Christmas holidays, rush home to finish up, to hell, etc., perhaps decorate the tree in time, and on this occasion I would like to thank all those who have spent here with us - and can be said until the last hour before Christmas - time, House employees, protective services, medical services, journalists, service in the hall. And I apologize to everyone I may have forgotten, too. Let's stop measuring the size of the brain or the power of the voice. We all know who we are, how determined we will be to vote. Let's finally vote. After all, opinions are clarified. Whether it smells like beer or a window or whatever it is, I find it particularly undignified today. It's just a polite request, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u59	Thank you. Mrs Pekarová is in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u60	Thank you for the floor. I certainly don't want to stretch it out, but since I didn't have the opportunity to sign up at second reading to the amendment that I prepared, I wanted to take advantage of the space. Finally, the amendment was read at second reading by a colleague, Feri, and it is in your materials under the letter E. I would very much like to say briefly what this is about. The aim of the proposed adjustment is to enable the taxpayer to apply, through an untaxable part of the tax base, the amounts of remuneration which he has shownly paid during the tax period for services fulfilling the scope of the provision of services for the family and household, provided on the basis of a business authorisation, etc. When I leave this terminology, it is very simple - it is the support of working families with smaller children, so that they have the opportunity to include among the tax-free parts of the tax base, if they have some household services, even household care. I think it can help to reconcile families with their professional and family life, and it would help especially the middle class, which is often neglected here. Since most of you, most political parties and the movement have the support of families in their programs, I think that we can now make them quite happy in their family budgets, because the annual amount I propose to follow up on should be as high as the minimum wage level, which means that this could be a fairly good savings for their budget. I just wanted to add that and ask you to support the amendment under the letter E. So if we're serious about supporting families, I think it's a very simple but effective change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u61	Thank you. Since I don't have anyone registered in the debate or with factual remarks, I don't see anyone in the hall, I'm ending the debate. I'll ask for any final words. Yes, he's interested. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm gonna try to be most factual and brief. I have listened all morning, of course I have been familiar with the amendments already during the legislative process, so I have thought them through. I will also present here that I will actively support several amendments from the pen of opposition Members, that is, it is not only that I support only amendments from coalition Members, but also the opposition, because they simply make sense to me, or it is about the debate and whether it makes sense or not. I will not name and comment on individual amendments because I will express my consent or opposition to each of them. So I'm going to sum up the debate into a few groups. There was a whole package of performances to increase the tax-free amount, discounts on the taxpayer and then various proposals for discounts on children, students etc. I would like to remind, for example, Mr Jurečka, who was part of the government coalition, which was here before the parliamentary elections, that the government increased the advantage on children of working parents, from CZK 13,404 per child to CZK 15, 204 for the first child, 19,404 for the second child and 24, 204 for the third child and another child. This exceeded massive inflation, so it certainly did not resign to this process. As far as the discount on the taxpayer is concerned, what Mr Ferjenčík proposes, of course, with other Members, I apologise for not calling them, means an increase in fiscal decline or an intervention in the budget minus 19.4 billion. and I, in the context of the fact that I have been called upon here now during the state budget negotiations, repeatedly to a balanced budget, and I have basically proposals here which, if I were to add them up, are worth more than 100 billion, so some 40 billion deficit, which the Chamber of Deputies finally approved, could be dreamed of. So I say so much openly that I won't support you. [[11.10 hours]] And I believe - we are doing tax cuts, and there are several amendments in this package, and I will actively support them, which will lead to tax reductions - and I believe that when we manage to move forward, and we will succeed, because we will not give up, the amendment to the Act on Recording of Sales until further reading and approve it, so I believe that we will also manage to reduce taxes further, because it includes a significant reduction in VAT. As President Stanjura said correctly, it's almost 3.5 billion. And most importantly, it concerns services, a whole range of services, but it concerns - and it already affects all the citizens of this country - the water and the sewer. And we, the Ministry of Finance, will ensure that this is reflected in the final prices for the citizens of this country, because it will issue - with this strategic raw material it can - a price statement, where it will bind the waterworks to reflect it. So I believe that we will be able to move the EET to second reading for three quarters of a year, even at the cost of an extraordinary meeting, thus achieving this significant tax reduction, which is called for so much. Of course, I also noticed proposals to cancel the supergross wage, I noticed proposals to cancel the solidarity premium, I perceive it all. These are such recycled amendments that are repeated at different times, but I think it's fair that this government -- it has it in its programming statement -- it has it in the coalition agreement -- when it does it in the period in which it rules. And if nothing happens, there's still about three years left, and that's what we're planning. Basically, it is not in this package because it was presented by a minority government without confidence, that is, without political support, but we will do it in a budgetaryly responsible way. This means that taxpayers feel it, but at the same time that it does not devastate the state budget, because what is proposed would basically mean, the opposition says 50 billion, we see it at current prices even higher. So much. And otherwise, I hate to be here, there's a Christmas atmosphere, so I want to be friendly, I don't want to remind you who's raised the reduced VAT rate, so I'm not gonna be dealing with this right now. Then there were a number of such things, which are more technical, then I will keep the pleasant ones, the ones that I support, and they concerned both the gambling law, then the introduction of an extension of the time limit for filing a return submitted electronically, and then the GAAR rule was mentioned here. That's very complicated, tech stuff. I, of course, because Mr Ferjenčík has defended this place very long, so I will take the liberty of saying a few words. The prohibition of misuse of the right of GAAR essentially results from the obligation to implement regulations and the prohibition of misuse of the law is already commonly applied in the Czech Republic because it was brought about by the caselaw, in particular by the Supreme Administrative Court. However, within the framework of the ATAD Directive, the EU requires this rule to be explicitly laid down for corporate taxes. It has to do with the fight against tax evasion, and I believe the Pirates Club supports the fight against tax evasion. He often talks about dividends, sometimes confuses concepts with impressions, but I will forgive that, and patiently I will be happy to explain it repeatedly, because repetition is the mother of wisdom. So I believe that they will understand and support this very important instrument that the European Union requires. With regard to the extension of the deadline for submitting a tax return electronically, I really support this idea, but I do not support this implementation, for absolutely pragmatic reasons, because I have called together an expert team composed of my officials of the Ministry of Finance and officials of the General Financial Directorate, and since I have been in this my whole life, which I do not want to keep reminding myself, I understand the arguments that have been raised. We know the idea, we know about it, we welcome it, we even wrote the amendment in case it passes by chance, so we technically wrote it, we end up doing it to any of the Members, no matter what spectrum it is, because we care about it being legally correctly written, but I do not support its enforcement now. He must put himself in the whole context of the reform of the tax system so as not to project in any way - it is not just about the deadline, Members. If you know the tax code, and I believe you've studied it, there's also a time limit for payment of the tax, which is related to interest and other sanctions. And that's just where mistakes can't be made. Otherwise, I can assure you that we are preparing a big novel in connection with the so-called. I want to change the interest rate system, and I am thinking of a very substantial reduction in interest and sanctions. And that will be part of this big novel. As far as gambling is concerned, I would just like to remind you that it was the Ministry of Finance in the past period before the elections, when it was the first time that a historically new gambling law was passed and related to the Gaming Tax Act. And it even hit the Chamber of Deputies, we wanted three rates at the time, and there were only two, but we also consider this a great success, especially in the regulation of gambling. I consider it another great success that the IT system has managed to compete, we have signed a contract that has been hanging for several days on the Ministry of Finance's website. And I would like to say a very fundamental point - we stopped being a casino in Central Europe. I wanted to hold a press conference by the end of the year, but it's just too much, I'm going to do it in the first half of January, and there I'm going to present the basic results, the essential that we've lost these devices, how we're fighting through Customs with illegal gambling, and I'm going to present all this on specific numbers. But about the amendment. I would like to say that the need to leave a minimum tax base for live games tournaments, for example. poker, which has been discussed, must be taxed on their operation, which, together with setting the minimum level of commission, enables them to obtain sufficient resources to cover, inter alia, the mitigation of the harmful effects of gambling. As for disproportionately high taxation preventing the organisation of live game tournaments, the introduction of a cap on winnings does not constitute a disproportionately high tax burden for live game tournament operators, which would make it impossible for these tournaments to be organized. So it can be assumed that the operator who organizes the tournament, I mean live games, is doing so with the intention of profit, so it is economically rational to keep part of those deposits. And on top of the claim that was made here somewhere, I'm sorry if I misunderstood that poker isn't a gamble. This claim has already been refuted by the Supreme Administrative Court for old gambling regulation, which was much more imperfect than the current one. Now, please, about the positive things I'm going to support. I'll support a two-mile payback. for spending flats for businessmen. I have re-evaluated this view, I admit it, and I want to demonstrate that it is necessary to help a group of businessmen, whom we really are by regulations, which, however, make the business environment even and tax collection more difficult. It's a million businessmen, 600 thousand. He only does business for a living, and I'm ready to support the proposal that returns the limit of two miles. even with regard to the fact that we manage to make income through regulation. Another which I support is the amendment from Mr Munzar and Mr Jurečka's opposition MEPs' pen, if I am not mistaken, and that is a reduction in VAT to heat. I have devoted a lot of time to discussions, I have also talked to the representatives of the heat plants, I have talked to a number of my government colleagues, MEPs, and I perceive that although I do not think that this will translate into a reduction in the price for heat, it can slow down the dramatic price increase. So I am prepared to support this amendment. [[11.20 hours]] I will also support Mrs Černochová's amendment, which exempts excise duty from samples of beer intended for pedagogical purposes or for scientific purposes. We didn't know about the problem, we noticed it, we discussed it, and it just makes sense to us. I am therefore prepared to support this amendment. What I don't support is a reduction in the VAT on beer. I would like to stand up for my government colleague Adam Vojtěch, Minister of Health, he has actually abstained from voting on the government where the amendment to the EET Act was being discussed and where there is a reduction in draft beer. It's our old evergreen, which we support especially the first wave of EET. There we reduce food service repeatedly, first we reduce from 21 to 15, now we want to reduce from 15 to 10. And we see brewed beer and soft drinks as this support, unlike the excise tax that affects everything beer, the bottled, which is normally available and very cheap. The drop is 0.9 billion. So I will not support this proposal and, of course, even considering what the Minister of Health has said here, and that is why I want to stand up for it. Thank you for the attention you have given to my brief final word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u63	Thank you, Minister. So this performance brought about three preferential rights. First is Mr Bartoš, then is Mr Kalousek and Mr Bartošek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only respond to a few of the untruths that have been said here. Well, I'll be okay with it when it's Christmas. I'm glad the Minister doesn't miss the healthy self-esteem in some moments. Well, I'd only choose three things I'd like to poke. I'm glad she changed her mind after reading the book, as we read on Facebook pages, about how hard the life of a freelancer, the person she's in business, and that she'll support the thing that the entire opposition proposed a long time ago, which is an increase in spending flats to those 2 million. If she had read the book a little earlier, we wouldn't have had to have the fall that year and then possibly the increase again. But, actually, there were four things I wanted to talk about. Of course, the part about the poker we talked about, and no one here at the moment about whether poker is a skill game or gambling, so it's an online poker game where in this case we don't collect anything on those taxes, because our online poker players are discriminated against the rest of the European Union and they just don't log into those tournaments. But for me, there are two important points that I would like to mention, because we have been taught indirectly to educate ourselves more, and I am glad that the Minister said that as he feels the opposition's opinions, I would still need to read our proposals. So the first untruth that has been made here concerns our proposal to increase the possible tax deduction for everyone. So, of course, that's where it's valid from 1. 1st year 2020. So, given the budget approved, it is absolutely neutral, and this would only be expected in the budget for 2020. So this wasn't true what was said here. It's clearly written in the proposal. This matter, which relates to the possible extension of the deadline for submitting tax returns electronically, is still for 2021. So if there are any errors on the part of the Ministry and it wouldn't be possible now, then the Ministry has two years to fix it. So I would like to ask, if we are to somehow study, and we like to educate ourselves in these matters, so that at least those proposals that anyone, not only the Minister, defines themselves against, so that he can read when it comes into force and what a substantive basis it is, because in all these three cases, which are by chance from the pen of pirates, sometimes together the opposition, the Minister simply did not speak the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u65	Thank you. Mr President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u66	Thank you for the floor. The secretary said that due to pre-Christmas time, she doesn't want to say explicitly who raised the reduced VAT rate. I think we can explicitly say that. Our government did it twice. She did it for the first time in direct connection with pension reform, with the second pillar, and for the second time she did it as a three-year stabilization measure, time limited to 1. 1. 2016. The first reason passed when you canceled the second pillar. And the other reason should have passed to 1. 1. 2016, unless you change the law and keep the taxes. So it is simple to raise the basic VAT rate and thus increase VAT as a whole. The government of Petr Nečas and from 1 did it twice. 1. 2016 you're raising the tax. And if you do not want to be the ones who have raised taxes, please support my amendment. I think it's quite right to put it that way, and we can say it before Christmas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u67	Thank you. The next one is President Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u68	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, colleagues, I have two things to respond to. The first is, and this is the fact that, compared to 2013 until 2018, working parents had more than CZK 5.5 billion in working families. The people's people are convinced that it is far more motivating for people to go to work and to have tax discounts on their children than to spend flat-rate benefits thoughtlessly. And why did that happen? Because it was a priority for KDU-ČSL. Because for us, working parents who take care of their children are a priority, and we want everyone who works to have more money in their families. There's a chance to continue. This means, if you want to support working parents, support the amendment, the author of which is Marian Jurečka and to which she confessed at second reading by Mrs Golasowská. If you support this proposal, you will support families with three children by remaining 24,000 a year more each year. And the second thing I have to respond to is a question of gambling. Madam Secretary, since you're already taking credit for the law behind which Deputy Director Ondřej Závodský, who was an expert for KDU-ČSL, has to be realized that he's the person you fired from the Ministry, whose job you're now taking credit for, and instead of appreciating that he's a man in the area of gambling, appreciated his quality and left him at the Ministry, it ended with your Ministry kicking him out of his job. And the second thing, instead of bragging about taxes, it would be good for you to implement the other sections that are against gambling in this law, and to put the adictological brakes into practice. Because collecting taxes, collecting money from gamblers without protecting people who are potentially at risk of addiction, gambling, that's hypocritical. Now that you're talking about the law, you should also implement the things that the law contains in the area of adictological brakes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u69	Thank you. Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u70	Really only briefly, because I believe that some information should be complete. When Mr Bartošek mentioned here that the person who had the Anti-Gambling Act, Mr Závodský Deputy, was fired, I wouldn't say too sensitively, it wasn't just the Závodský Act. The law was written in the department of Master Řehola, who was, of course, fired as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u71	Thank you. I'll ask the rapporteur if he's interested in the final word. There is no interest in the final word, so we will now proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u72	Thank you for the floor. Given that the press itself is complexly structured and there are dozens of proposals, I would ask you to pay some attention to the draft procedure, even though, of course, you have it in writing on the benches as a budget committee resolution for third reading. First of all, in view of the structurality of the press, I would suggest that the first step is to divide those proposals into several, namely seven, groups, starting with the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, and then according to the laws to which the press relates. He concerns 10 laws, but specifically it will be blocks relating to income tax, gambling, value added, excise duty, tax rules and Customs. Now the procedure, which is therefore in the form that we would start at the very beginning with a vote on legislative technical regulation, which concerns the amendment of Mr Kalousek, where the word 'new point' would be replaced by 'point 67'. That's leg. tech. It's like she's sewn up. Then the block of vote on the budget committee, the ensemble would be all changes effective, i.e. 9 to 21 changes effective, and then the step would step another six votes according to how the budget committee lined them up. The second group, another group, concerns the amendment of the Income Tax Act. That is where we would begin by voting on the proposal of my colleague Stanjura. It is a super gross wage and a solidarity rate tax. If this were not accepted, there is no point in voting on the identical proposal made by Mr Kalousek, which is point O1. Then would follow D3, these are the expense flats, then would come M2, colleague Martínek, that is to deduct from the tax base free of charge. The following would be e, a colleague of Feri, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. This concerns family and household services. To my colleague Volný, C3 - these are the so many discussed basic discounts on the taxpayer of colleagues Ferjenčík and Skopeček, then it would be L1, which is a proposal adopted by colleague Čižinský, L2 - for the first time it would be for dependent children and the L2 is for dependent students. And then, separately, the effectiveness of these proposals. The third group is gambling, that's two steps. One concerns the repeal of § 59, live games, and the other is an increase in winning limits. We've also discussed the poker environment in detail here. The fourth relatively large group is VAT. We would start with colleague Chvojka, which is F, taxable performance with insolvency administrators, followed by M3 colleagues Martínek, which are virtual currencies, then a colleague Kalousek would come in variants O (a) which is VAT, two rates 19 and 10; and (b) 20 and 10. So he's a colleague of Kalousek. Then we come to the proposal by Mr Munzar, who, by the way, was also supported by the resolution of the Economic Committee, which concerns reduced VAT rates of heat, cold. If, after the points, we come to the desired result, followed by a proposal from my colleague Golasowská, it is VAT on natural gas. Then we come again to the proposal made here by a colleague of Čižinský, which is VAT on organic foods if you are organic. The following is h, a colleague of Janda, VAT refunds, specifically for tourism. The last of the VAT is one effective thing that was loaded all the way from the diaper, that's my little thing, i.e. I1, I2. In the event that the A resolution is approved, i.e. from the Committee on Budgets, we would only vote on I2 because this is already related to the amendments adopted in this way. Fifth group - excise duty. There are two things. Once it's a reduction in excise duty on beer. It was widely discussed. And the second thing, that was a colleague of Stanjura and my little thing. The other one is a colleague of Polanský, where it is the limit of freed beer that you cook yourself at home. The sixth group is the tax code. C1 Mr Ferjenčík, M1, this concerns GAAR, this is the implementation of GAAR. M1, colleague Martínek, who extends the deadline for electronic submission, has it in variants according to efficiency, J3. The last is a colleague, Munzar, who relates to the interest on the unauthorised conduct of the tax administrator, this is J2. Finally, the Customs Administration Act, which concerns the abolition of cover documents for the purposes of EET control. If we go through this beautifully, then we can vote on the whole bill as a whole. If it was clear enough, does anyone have anything to ask? If not, I'd like to ask the manager to have this proposed procedure approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u73	Thank you. I don't see anyone applying to the proposed procedure. I'll check you out on request, please log in with your ID cards. I will vote on the draft procedure as proposed by the rapporteur. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting order number 279. 170 Members registered, for 169, the proposal was adopted. We can proceed to the vote on individual amendments. Please. I will ask the Chamber of Deputies if she can keep her voice down, because we have a series of votes ahead, so we know what we are voting on. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u74	Yes. According to what we have just approved, the first step should be to approve legislative technical regulation. It concerns the proposal of a colleague Kalousek O2, where the original words are replaced by the text "point 67'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u75	Opinion? [[Rapporteur: Positive. - Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 280. 172 Members and Members signed in for 171, the proposal was adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u76	We will now proceed to the amendments of the Committee on Budgets. The first step will be proposals A9 through A21. That's the efficiency block.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u77	Opinion? [[- Agreed. Rapporteur: As well.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 281. 173 Members registered, for 173. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u78	The next step is A1, A2. This is the limit for withholding tax on the amount they decide when paying sickness insurance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u79	Opinion? [[- Agreed. Rapporteur: Also agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 282. 173 Members registered, for 173, the proposal was adopted. Come in?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u80	Proposals A3 and A4 - deduction for research and development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u81	Opinion? [[- Agreed. Rapporteur: Also.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 283, 173 Members signed up, for 172, the proposal was adopted. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u82	The A5 proposal concerns the abolition of the new definition of the subsidy on the price.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u83	Opinion? [[- Agreed. Rapporteur: Also.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 284, 173 Members signed up, for 172, the proposal was adopted. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u84	A6, this relates to complementing the definition of economic activity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u85	Opinion? [[- Agreed. Rapporteur: Also.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 285, 173 Members signed in, for 173, the proposal was adopted. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u86	A7, calculation of tax deduction for broadcasters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u87	Opinion? [[- Agreed. Rapporteur: Also.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 286, 173 Members signed up for 173, the proposal was adopted. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u88	A8, there is the exemption of samples of beer for analytical purposes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u89	Opinion? [[- Agreed. Rapporteur: Also.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 287, 173 Members registered, for 171, abstained 2. The motion was accepted. Please, another one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u90	We are now entering the second block, which concerns the amendment to income tax, and would first be the proposal of colleague Stanjury D1.1 - the abolition of the supergross wage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u91	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] The rapporteur? [[The Committee on Budgets also disagrees.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the voting order number 288, 172 Members registered, for 54, against 69. Denied. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u92	Again, colleague Stanjura - D1.2 and D1.3, this concerns the abolition of a solidarity tax increase.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u93	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] The rapporteur? [[The committee also disagrees.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the voting order number 289, 173 Members and Members voted in favour of 51, rejected. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u94	Another would be the proposal of my colleague Kalousek, who was concerned with the same, so we do not need to vote again. It's unvoting. A colleague of Stanjura's is following. This was an effective matter, but since we did not accept it, we do not have to vote on efficiency, i.e. effectiveness, on proposals to abolish supergross wages and so on. So we get to my colleague Kalousek, this is O1.4 - once again an effective thing that we have not accepted, or need not. I'm going on and we're getting to an important point, and that's an increase in spending flats. It's a D3. Subscribers of colleagues Stanjura, Volný, Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u95	Opinion? [[- Agreed.]] The rapporteur? [[Yes, the budget committee here agreed.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 290, 173 Members and Members, for 170, the proposal was adopted. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u96	We are with N2 colleague Martínek, who is concerned with the extension of deductible items for the free performance of Czech television.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u97	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: Also.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 291, 173 Members and Members, for 59, the proposal was rejected. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u98	We're at E, a colleague of Feri, a colleague of Pekarová Adamová. [[Objection from the O.R.]] Providing family and household services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u99	I would just like to point out that if I am not mistaken, the committee did not take a position on my colleague Martínek, so I ask the rapporteur to say it correctly, and the Government's position on the committee was neutral. So I'd like a heads-up when it changes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u100	Yes, it is true that the committee has not adopted an opinion here, which means that it has not passed positive. [[Jollyness and banging on the benches in the ranks of members of the Pirates.]] That's right, that's all. I agree with you. It did not pass either positive or negative, so it is without an opinion. That's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u101	It's out of line, that's what you're gonna say. I will ask for peace in the House so that we can continue and not get lost in this. Mr rapporteur, repeat what we will be voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u102	So I'm going back to E.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u103	Sorry, Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u104	Let me raise an objection to the last vote, because the rapporteur did not exactly say that the committee does not recommend that this be all pure. I raise an objection and then I would ask you to comply with the objection, the rapporteur said it precisely and then we will vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u105	Thank you. I shall immediately vote on the objection raised on the previous vote. Initiating vote on objection. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 292, 173 Members and Members signed in for 170, the proposal was adopted. Mr rapporteur, please make the proposal again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u106	Once again N2, colleague Martínek - free performance provided by Czech Television. This is the extension of deductible items.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u107	Opinion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u108	Here, as has been said, the Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u109	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 293, 173 Members and Members, for 59, the proposal was rejected. Please come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u110	Yes. E - colleague Feri, co-worker Pekarová Adamová, discount on family and household services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u111	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] The rapporteur? [[I expressly disagree here.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? [[Screams in the right side of the hall.]] In voting order number 294, 172 Members and Members, for 18, the proposal was rejected. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u112	K - Colleague Volný. This is the effect of IFRS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u113	Opinion? [[- Agreed.]] The rapporteur? [[Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, ……]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 295, 173 Members and Members signed in for 173, the proposal was adopted. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u114	Yes, C1, colleague Ferjenčík and also colleague Skopeček. This concerns an increase in the basic discount.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u115	Opinion? [[- Disadvised.]] The rapporteur? [[There's a C3 in the O.R. That's confirmed by the secretary.]] I ask the rapporteur to repeat this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u116	Yes, once again, my colleague Ferjenčík, Skopeček, concerns an increase in the basic discount. And it's C3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u117	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: The Committee has not adopted a resolution.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 296, 173 Members and Members have signed up for 79. [[versus 82]] The motion was denied. Next
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u118	We're getting to L1.1 and L1.2, it's about a dependent child. A colleague of Čižinský, after all, Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u119	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: He has not adopted an opinion.]] I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 297, 173 Members and Members have signed up for 55. [[versus 82]] The motion was denied. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u120	l and 2.2, colleague Čižinský, Jurečka and dependent student child.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u121	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: Once again, the Committee has not adopted an opinion.]] I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 298, 173 Members and Members have signed up for 28. [[versus 75]] The motion was denied. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u122	Then here's the L1.3 proposal, which is an effective thing to do with what we haven't adopted right now, so we don't have to. L2.3, once again, the effective thing about what we didn't accept. And that's how I get to M4, A1, and it's about the gambling block. This first is the cancellation of the paragraph governing the live game. And he's a colleague of Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u123	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: The Committee on Budgets also disagrees.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the voting order number 299, 173 Members and Members shall sign up for 51. [[versus 113]] The motion was denied. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u124	M5, A2, a colleague of Martínek, and it concerns the limit on winnings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u125	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: The Committee on Budgets also disagrees.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 300, 173 Members and Members of Parliament have signed up for 59. [[versus 91]] The motion was denied. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u126	So it's the fourth block. It's about VAT, and we'll start with my colleague Chvojka, taxable performance, insolvency. Here I must say that the original disapproval of the Ministry was replaced by consent, and the Committee on Budgets then voted in accordance with the recommendations of the Ministry of Finance, so it was a disagreement at the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u127	Opinion? [[- Agreed. rapporteur: Here, as I say, the Committee on Budgets initially voted in dissent. Dissatisfied reactions from the O.R.]] I'd like us to say exactly what it is. So, rapporteur, the budget committee? [[Rapporteur: Original budget resolution - Disapproval from the hall. - Newsletter: Yes, disagree, period.]] Opinion of the rapporteur: opposition. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the voting order number 301, 173 Members and Members have signed up for 112. [[versus 25]] The motion was accepted. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u128	Now we get to our colleague Martínek N3, it concerns virtual currencies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u129	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: The Committee on Budgets has not adopted it.]] I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 302 173 Members and Members, for 52. [[versus 88]] The motion was denied. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u130	Yes, we are at O2, variant A, colleague Kalousek cancels VAT rates so that there are only two, 19 and 10 percent left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u131	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: Disagree.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote serial number 303, 172 Members and Members have signed up for 51. [[versus 84]] The motion was denied. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u132	Variant B. It concerns the same, but the rates are 20 and 10 %, colleague Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u133	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: Also disapproval.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 304, 173 Members and Members have signed up for 50. [[versus 85]] The motion was denied. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u134	Yes, J1.1, a colleague of Munzar, a colleague of Jurečka. It's about heat and cold rates.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u135	Opinion? [[- Agreed. Rapporteur: Also.]] I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the voting order number 305, 172 Members and Members have signed up for 160. [[versus 2]] The motion was accepted. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u136	Yes, what we have now adopted is postponed efficiency on 1 January 2020. So J1.2 colleague Munzar, Jurečka, after all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u137	Opinion? [[- Agreed. Rapporteur: Logically, too.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 306, 173 Members and Members have signed up for 167. [[versus 0]] The motion was accepted. Come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u138	Yes, therefore, my colleague Luzar's proposal is unvoting because he was on the same subject that we have now decided. And we're getting to the B, which is a colleague of Golasowská, DPH on natural gas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u139	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: Also]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 307, 173 Members and Members have signed up for 7. [[versus 122]] The motion was denied. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u140	L3, Čižinský, Jurečka, VAT on organic foods.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u141	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: As well.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the voting order number 308, 173 Members and Members have signed up for 34. [[versus 107]] The motion was denied. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u142	We are at Enka, a colleague of Janda, and there are VAT refunds on third-country tourists. Excuse me? I missed that, h, yes, I'm sorry, I've already had my moments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u143	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: No opinion.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 309, entered 173 Members and Members, for 67, against 85. The motion was denied. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u144	Yes. And we end the VAT block by voting on I2, because I1 is unnecessary because we have adopted the amendments to the Committee on Budgets. It's an efficiency in leasing, and it's my proposal, that is, Dolejš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u145	Opinion? [[- Agreed. Rapporteur: Also.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 310, registered 173 Members and Members, for 171, against no one. The motion was accepted. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u146	Amendment to the Consumer Tax Act. For the first time, it will be D2, colleague Stanjur, signed by me. And it concerns a reduction in excise duty on beer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u147	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: The Committee has not adopted an opinion.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 311, 171 Members of Parliament, in favour of 84, against 9. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u148	We're at G's, a colleague of Polanský. It concerns beer limits produced at home.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u149	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: Also disapproval.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 312, number 172 Members and Members, for 60, against 56. The motion was denied. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u150	Block - Tax Code Act. The first is C1, colleague Ferjenčík, implementation of GAAR.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u151	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: As well.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 313, 173 Members and Members, in favour of 52, against 96. The motion was denied. Please, another one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u152	M1, colleague Martínek, extension of the deadline for electronic submission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u153	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: He has not adopted an opinion.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 314, 173 Members and Members signed in, 61, against 74. The motion was denied. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u154	J3.1, colleague Munzar, content of the form by decree in the VAT Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u155	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: As well.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 315, registered by 173 Members, for 47, against 106. Overruled. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u156	J3.2, colleague Munzar. A similar thing - a decree on tax rules, or a form by decree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u157	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: As well.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 316, 173 Members registered, for 46, against 105. The motion was denied. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u158	J3.3 and J4.5 are efficient things about what we haven't adopted right now, so we can move on. And we're at J, colleague Munzar, interest on the wrongful conduct of the administrator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u159	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: As well.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 317, registered by 173 Members, for 81, against 84. The motion was denied. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u160	The last partial vote, i.e. C2, colleague Ferjenčík, use of cover documents in the case of EET.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u161	Opinion? [[- Disadvised. Rapporteur: As well.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 318, 173 Members of Parliament signed in for 78, against 93. The motion was denied. So, at this point, all the proposals have been voted on. We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I shall make a motion for a resolution. Chairman Kalousek. I will ask the peace of the House to know what we are talking about, and maybe we can respond adequately. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, above the original draft of the Ministry of Finance and Government, we wanted to stay behind originally, it was a model of a more or less technical nature. And we regret, of course, that a number of rational amendments have not been passed, either from among us or from among our colleagues. However, given that the increase in flat rates, which you have reduced irresistibly in the past period, has been approved and the reduction of VAT to heat has been approved, the TOP 09 member club will support the law as a whole. However, I firmly hope that when Christmas is over, the Minister will openly say to the question of who increased the VAT, that he will admit that from 1. 1. 2016 was a social democracy and the ANO movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u163	To the vote? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u164	Hello. I didn't mean to interrupt the difficult procedure. I just wanted to say, for the sake of the tape, that I voted in favour of the 299 vote, but I'm late for high school. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u165	Thank you. President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u166	Thank you. For the people's sake, we're very sorry that family support didn't go through, which is our priority. On the other hand, we appreciate and are pleased to see the amendment to the reduction of VAT to heat, whose folks are co-submitters. This amendment will help some 4.2 million people in practice. Finally, given that this amendment has been passed, KDU-ČSL will support this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u167	Thank you. I don't see anyone else with priority rights, we'll proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with a government bill amending certain laws in the field of taxation and certain other laws, according to House press 206, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor, let him raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting order number 319, 174 Members and Members signed in for 151, against no one. The motion was accepted. [[Applause from the left and center of the hall.]] I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I'll read an apology before I hand over the proceedings. Mr Václav Klaus apologizes for working reasons from 12.30 to the end of the day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-21-ps2017-024-08-002-130.u168	Good afternoon, we'll proceed to the next item. This is about
