ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-002-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 201/2012 Sb., on air protection, as amended /house print 13/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, he will actually be introduced by Prime Minister and Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-002-002.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad I made my mark. It's not exactly customary. The aim of the draft law which you referred to is to implement a partial transposition of Council Directive 2015/652/EU laying down the methods of calculation and reporting requirements under the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels as well as the partial transposition of Directive 2015/1513/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Directive on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels. In the context of the first directive, it should be noted that, at the turn of May and June last year, the European Commission initiated an infringement procedure for the non-implementation of the transposition of this Directive. Why did that happen? The same proposal has already been submitted by the previous Government to the Chamber of Deputies, but it has not been discussed by the end of its term of office. The proposal ended at first reading, or it went to the committee where it was discussed by the Committee on the Environment, but it did not go into further discussion. It is therefore now presented again in the same text, with only legislative technical comments, as it is of course in the interest of the Czech Republic to prevent the referral of infringement proceedings to other stages. And now for the very contents of the bill. The proposal gives suppliers of diesel and diesel fuels the opportunity to double into the so-called minimum mandatory share of biofuels the amount of biofuels produced from used kitchen oil, rendering fats and advanced biofuels. This option will therefore make it easier for suppliers of diesel and diesel fuels to comply with the obligation to ensure a minimum share of biofuels in fuels. The proposal will also allow suppliers of diesel and diesel fuel to take into account natural gas, whether CNG or LNG or LPG liquefied petroleum gas, pure and high-percent biofuels, electricity and, where appropriate, hydrogen, which they have supplied for transport purposes, or supplied by another person with whom they conclude a joint performance contract. The proposal also introduces a new provision on the basis of which suppliers of diesel and diesel petrol will be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fuel by means of the so-called reduction in mining emissions. These two options, regardless of alternative fuels and reduced emissions from extraction, will also make it easier for suppliers of diesel and diesel to fulfil their obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fuels. Furthermore, the proposal provides for new sanctions for non-compliance with the greenhouse gas emission reduction obligation. The valid wording of the Act allows to impose a fine only up to 10 million. CZK, which would not, however, be dissuasive for large suppliers of diesel and diesel fuel, and, on the contrary, for small suppliers such a high fine would be completely liquidated. A new method of sanctioning the amount of the fine, based on the quantification of the level of infringement, that is to say the actual amount of greenhouse gas emissions for which the supplier has failed to fulfil his obligation, will be fairer. A similar method is used in Germany. Specifically, it is CZK 10 per kilo of CO2 where the supplier failed to fulfil his obligation. In view of the above deadline, I would also like to ask in the general debate to shorten the deadline for the discussion of the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies to 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-002-002.u3	Thank you to Prime Minister Richard Brabco. And now I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová for her intelligence report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-002-002.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to brief you on the report to the House of Press 13. Government bill amending Act No. 201/2012 Coll., on air protection, as amended, contains a partial transposition of Council Directive 2015/652/EU laying down the methods of calculation and reporting requirements for the quality of petrol and diesel fuels. We didn't keep the deadline for the transposition, as already stated here, because it was up to 21. 4. 2017, respectively. 10. 9. 2017. The Government's proposal was submitted in the last parliamentary term, passed the first reading in April 2017 and did not reach the second reading, so we are now returning to it for three quarters of a year. The proposed effectiveness is from 1. 7. 2018. [[12.30 hours]] The amendment regulates the issue of biofuels, specifically amending the determination of the minimum quantity of biofuels contained in the fuels sold. It allows double counting of advanced biofuels and taking into account the supply of gas, electricity and hydrogen to fuel suppliers. In addition, sanctions for non-compliance with the mandatory share will increase, which will be approximately 2.3 times higher than the cost of the relevant biofuels. As already mentioned by the Minister, and it also states the material itself, the aim of the amendment is to promote the development of biofuels produced from used kitchen oils, rendering fats and advanced biofuels, i.e. biofuels called. second generation, which have the advantage of having four times less emissions than rape products in combustion and twice less emissions in production. Of course, I consider this to be the way in the right direction. This also reflects the global trend in the shift of support for first generation biofuels to second generation biofuels, which appear to be more efficient and environmentally friendly in particular. However, I have to suspend here the negative impact that the explanatory memorandum itself puts forward, and thus there is a slightly higher pressure on the area of arable land for the cultivation of raw materials intended for the production of biofuels. This is at first glance contrary to the stated objective of the amendment and for this reason I turned to the Ministry of Environment. I was willing to have an extensive answer from which I would like to quote the following sentence. "This could mean that there will be a higher pressure on the use of biofuels, and if this increase were due only to conventional biofuels, more space would be needed to grow sufficient raw materials for their production." The Ministry further states in its reply: "In addition, the impact on the size of the rotational areas mentioned does not apply directly to the proposed amendment, but to the law as such in the current version but also to the proposed text and its obligations. " So I repeat, the declared target of the amendment, respectively. I consider the support of second generation biofuels to be correct, but I see a few contradictions here, which I consider important to clarify also in the committees. For many of us, this is a matter of a very technical nature, and I would not like to rush to discuss this law. I therefore support, in particular, that this should be addressed by committees which I think are particularly relevant to this issue. I propose that we discuss it, of course, in the Committee on the Environment, which is also supposed to be the Guarantee Committee for this press, but I would also like to propose that this press be also allocated to the agricultural committee, because it concerns significantly rotational areas, as has been said, to the Committee on European Affairs, because this is a transposition of the directive, but because it is also a considerable budget - not perhaps because of the cost of the amendment itself, but because of the general tax and the issue associated with biofuels itself, and we have been discussing this a lot in the last parliamentary term - so I also propose the Committee on Budget. Then I propose to extend the deadline for committee discussions by 20 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-002-002.u5	I thank the rapporteur and, of course, both deadlines will probably be repeated in the debate. I am opening the debate to which Mr Jan Zahradník is reporting, so far the only one registered in writing. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-002-002.u6	Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, honourable Members, the law, as the Minister rightly pointed out in his presentation report, was already on the agenda of the House during the last parliamentary term. It was discussed by the committee, some amendments were tabled there. And the Minister himself has to look into his conscience for why the law fell into the black hole of unnegotiated proposals during the last parliamentary term, why the time of about half a year between his committee hearing and the end of the last House's mandate was not used to discuss this law in the second or third reading, and therefore the threat that the European Commission is haunting us was not so timely and was not the reason why we are so pressing it now. I would like to say that our law is basically devoted to administrative, bureaucratic acts, i.e. how the fuels that we mix into diesel and gasoline, and then we pour it into our cars, just record them and how to record them as they are shown. So it would seem that this is purely a bureaucratic law, and therefore we should bend our shoulders and approve the law without any difficulty. But it offers an opportunity to think about the whole system of support and support, enthusiasm and disillusionment that in this, I would say, the industry is on a daily basis. We must definitely remember how many years ago diesel engines were supported, diesel engines. At that time, diesel was considered to be an ecological fuel, even the production of diesel-engined cars was supported. But it turns out that it's not so beautiful that diesel engines pollute the atmosphere in a significant way, and today the same conservationists, the same environmental activists, the same politicians, who at the time were so bulgingly supporting the introduction of diesel engines into passenger car transport, would prefer to ban cars on diesel, or ban them from entering the centers of our cities. Of course, vehicles with diesel engines are large, and those bans would affect a number of their owners who do not have the economic strength to get cars with drives that the current conservationists consider satisfactory. So is biofuels. Once again, under pressure from the EU, we had to start mixing biofuels produced into our fuels when it comes to first generation fuels, rape, corn, grain, that is, from crops that grow in our fields, in foreign countries, they are different palm oil and others, and we had to pour it into our cars and thus destroy our cars' engines. Now it turns out that the very biggest supporters, the very guru of all our environmental activists, the Duha movement, are - here I quote - the support of the first generation's motor biofuels for the Cimrma's dead end and they blame their supporters for threatening orangutans in the forests and wasting farmland in our country. It's just over and over again. Now they're on the show to support the electric car. As it is with production, whether electricity production, which is then injected into electric cars, will not burden the environment more than the engines themselves of these cars, is a question which, of course, is not answered at that moment, and again enthusiasm prevails over reality. The rapporteur has well mentioned the support given to biofuels by the second or third generation, i.e. those biofuels which are not produced from rape in fields growing and not from maize, but which are produced from waste products, which, of course, is much better and certainly deserves support. [[12.40 hours]] The question is, however, that the production of second generation biofuels is both energy and production times more complex and demanding than that of first generation biofuels. And, of course, their wider implementation is expected in the next decade, roughly. So I'm sure as an incentive to double-count or double-count second-generation biofuels into that overall balance, it's okay. I'm sure we support that, too. I'm just reminding you, it doesn't have to be that simple. Biofuels of the first generation that burn in the engines of our cars are energy-efficient. 41 GJ energy is obtained from one hectare of rape in this way, but if that hectare of donkey is some kind of energy crop that could be burned in a bioelectric plant, 167 GJ could be obtained. So even here, the efficiency isn't okay. What is the European Union's view, the one who imposed this obligation on us years ago. So, of course, the European Union is retreating from the support of first generation biofuels. It turns out that this biofuels not only harm the engines of our cars, but also harm the environment. Thus, what the Commission and the European Union have cursed to protect the environment has proved to be a mistake. So they can do more harm to the environment. The European Commission seeks to significantly reduce support for first-generation biofuels in new materials, in new renewables standards, both in terms of their incorporation into automotive fuels and in terms of their support. The Commission presented a new legislative package already in the autumn of last year. It is aimed at conventional biofuels of the first generation produced from agricultural crops. Here I have to say that their share should reach 7 percent in 2020, 2021. By 2020, 2030, the Commission would like to reduce this figure to 3.8 percent, while the share of other low-emission fuels should rise to 6.8 percent. Here it is the use of electricity from renewable sources or the more advanced biofuels of the second or third generation. The consequences that are here in nature are clear. I already mentioned them. Plantation for the production of these resources for first generation biofuels means the loss of forest grasslands and hence that... and thus the reduction of the area of the green landscape, which may threaten food security. There is a question of what interest groups are behind the constant pressure and support of biofuels produced from agricultural crops. These interest groups are clear in our country. Of course, in addition to the farmers who threw themselves at the cultivation of biofuels, this is, among other things, the most important processor, and this is the Agrofert Group. The European Parliament, in its influential Committee on the Environment, even proposes that the percentage of fuel production and the incorporation of fuels of the first generation be reduced to zero. This proposal will certainly face harsh criticism here in the European Parliament, which is about to happen in the near future, by the way, also evidently the Czech government, which has expressed its intention to reduce first-generation biofuels negatively and, on the contrary, has expressed its view of the demands for faster introduction of advanced biofuels as ambitious and unrealistic. Like I said, no wonder. The dominant producer of rape biodiesel is Preol from Agrofert, which not only carries out trade from the production itself, but also draws significant subsidies, which unfortunately we have not been able to stop in the last parliamentary term. Finally, on the first block of my speech, I would like to say that I consider the law an alibiistic way of reporting bureaucratic steps that are expensive and will not solve the problem itself. So it's just a law, as I said before, bureaucratic. I have two specific comments on the text of the law. First of all, § 2 para. (s) where terms are defined, it is forgotten that electricity for transport purposes is not only a source of energy for motor vehicles, but can also be a source of energy for so-called. special vehicles and, where appropriate, water transport vessels. And the second point I would like to mention, § 20 para. 1 which requires that emissions be reported per unit of energy in that fuel for transport purposes. We can ask why emissions are not required here to be reported per unit of distance travelled, i.e. for one kilometer. Different fuels may also have different fuel consumption in terms of fuel mass consumed for a mile of vehicle distance. [[vehicles?]] [[Noise and restlessness in the hall.]] In conclusion, I would like to mention three things, which concern very significantly air protection and which are not entirely part of this bureaucratic law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-002-002.u7	Ambassador, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace! There's a lot of noise here, and if you don't respect your colleague, who's doing some pretty interesting stuff here about the text, at least respect that there's a tape screen and stenographers need peace to record it. Thank you, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-002-002.u8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for defending me like this. I think I'm gonna try and deal with it some more. I wanted to mention three things, as I suggested. First thing. Yesterday, we noted that the government would not join Poland's action, perhaps Romania's, against the tightening of the air pollution limits approved by the European Commission last year. I understand that this is a very sensitive problem, that it is precisely and, therefore, that Poland is the applicant of the lawsuit, from which there is a large air pollution coming to us in the Moravian-Silesian region, but nevertheless I want to mention it here as a very sensitive and brilliant problem, which, I would say, has recorded a double reaction. With great enthusiasm, our refusal to join the Polish lawsuit was recorded by environmental organisations, environmental activists who welcomed it. On the contrary, with less halax, it has saddened them - our industry, our energy, it will burden the cost of meeting these increased limits or meeting these increased limits maybe another 20 billion. The crowns we will have to spend, or our businesses will have to spend, to increase and improve... or to meet those ecological limits. We know well that our entire heating industry is actually based on burning fossil fuels, and if the demands for the purity of emissions that are emitted are excessively high, this can also mean that our heating industry will collapse and people will get heat from their own sources, which can also mean much more air pollution. I'm just reminding you it's complicated. [[12.50 hours]] In the end, Mr Brabec was the winner in the government. The Minister of Industry and Trade ended up defeated. The government may have approved it this way by a large majority. So the question is whether that's a good thing. Personally, I think we should have considered our stricter position on the excessive limits that the European Union is burdening us with. The second thing I want to mention is that the European Commission has set new targets for renewable energy sources, which according to estimates by our MEP and expert on this issue can Tošenovský up to hundreds of billions of crowns. This means that energy efficiency is expected to increase by 35 per cent by 2030 and to reach a share of renewables in our energy sector at 35 per cent. This is something that must stop us and which must call on us to take a very active stand against these pressures from the European Commission. These objectives are not supported by any analysis of the impact on Member States. Our support for renewable energy already costs us 40 billion a year. The crown and it will continue to be so. There's no hope of this ending in any way. Moreover, the Commission will still burden our energy, our industry, our economy with very hard and unnecessarily ambitious action, in my view. So watch out for this, too. And finally, one last thing. The Committee on European Affairs, which is always the first litmus paper for such intentions coming from the European Commission, whether it was the EIA, whether it were all possible other climate packages that burden our economy significantly, here comes another package of clean mobility measures. Here I'll mention about three things again. In the preamble to this material, there is a quote from President Jean-Claude Juncker's speech on the state of the Union, which says: "I would like Europe to be at the forefront of the fight against climate change." Next, the quote states: "The Commission wants to make our industry stronger and more competitive. " Two more conflicting and conflicting claims are hard to find in this field. Mr. Juncker's final quote, I'd almost say a threat. It says that the Commission will shortly submit proposals to reduce carbon emissions in the transport sector. In this material, we can read such things as the need to speed up the implementation of the Paris Agreement significantly as an instrument of transition to a modern and low-carbon economy. The Commission has confirmed the European Union's commitment to the Paris Agreement as well as the intention of the members of the Union to implement the Paris Agreement quickly and fully and to continue the fight against climate change. She recognised the Paris Agreement as a key element for modernising European industry, the economy - well, I've been talking about it here in the past year for dozens of maybe minutes, and most importantly, what stuck in my mind is that the agreement is for a hundred years. She's a hundred years old. She has committed herself, and we have also committed ourselves to this ratification here, keeping the temperature rise below 2 °C in the following century, or in a more ambitious approach, which we have all applauded here, below 1.5 °C. And here suddenly, the European Commission wants to deal with this Paris agreement as quickly as possible. That reminds me, like when we used to want to, or our predecessors sitting around in these organs, they used to want to meet a five-year-old in four years. This is the fulfillment of the Paris Agreement, which is for a hundred years, in one year. These are things that, as I say, are not entirely part of this law, but which therefore concern air protection and which we should always keep in mind and always bear in mind, and whenever we have such a law, we should be very careful, sharp and questioning what negative our economy is coming from the European Union. I'm going to ask our club to release this law into second reading. We will try to get any changes at second reading in the form of amendments to this law somehow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-002-002.u9	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. Now I am asking Mr Elfmark's envoy if he will be satisfied with the five minutes. Well, in that case, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, because I intend to end the morning meeting at 13 o'clock. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-002-002.u10	Hello. Thank you, Mr President. I would only like to order the Committee of Economic Affairs to discuss it, following the importance of this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-002-002.u11	Okay, thank you. Anyone else for the debate? If no one, I am not closing the debate because I am registering the Minister's and the rapporteur's proposals for shortening, respectively. extension. Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-002-002.u12	I would repeat my proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-002-002.u13	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-002-002.u14	I'm gonna repeat my suggestions, too. On the other hand, as far as the deadline is concerned, I propose an extension of 20 days. As far as the committees are concerned, there has been a request from the fellow Member for economics. The Committee on the Environment should be the guarantor of this press, and I have also said in my intelligence speech that I would suggest that we order this law to three other committees, namely the agricultural, budgetary and European affairs. We should therefore vote in total on the allocation to five different committees and vote on the shortening or extension of the deadline.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-002-002.u15	Okay. We'll vote together. I guess we'll still be able to make it. I'd like to end this point. If no one is enrolled in the debate and no one is reporting from the point of view, I am ending the debate. I'm asking for final words. The Minister and the rapporteur are not interested. We can therefore proceed to the vote. There was no motion to return or refuse. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we will decide on the commandment to the Guarantee Committee, the Environment Committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote number 20, which I am opening, and I ask who is the commandment of the Committee on the Environment as a committee of guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 20, of the 141 Members present for 119, against no one. We will therefore vote on other committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee did not propose any other committee. We approved the guarantee committee. We shall proceed to the vote on the various committees. I'll check you out first and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will vote, first on the Economic Committee. I have begun voting number 21 and I ask who is in favour of the Economic Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 21, 117 for 92, against 9. The motion has been approved. [[13.00 hours]] Now, in what order, rapporteur, were the other committees? [[Ms Pekarová Adamová from the rapporteur's table: Budget.]] Budget first. So vote number 22. Who is in favour of ordering the Committee on Budgets? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 22, 118 for 56 in attendance, against 41 in Members. The motion was not accepted. Another committee - the Public Administration Committee? [[Mrs Pekarová Adamová from the rapporteur's table: Committee on European Affairs.]] European affairs. So vote number 23, committee on European affairs. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 23, from 118 in favour of 56, against 49. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Last draft? [[Mrs Pekarová Adamová from the rapporteur's table: Agricultural.]] The Agricultural Committee. Vote number 24 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 24: 119 for 107, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee and other committees have been approved: the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Economic and Agricultural Affairs. Now, that's what we've come to terms with the commandment. We are now voting on a shortening or extension of the deadline. First, the proposal to shorten by 30 days, tabled in the debate by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of the Environment and Mr Richard Brabec. Voting number 25, which I have begun. Who's in favor of shortening the deadline? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 25, 119 for 54, against 59. The motion was not accepted. Now the proposal to extend the deadline by 20 days. I have begun voting number 26 and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 26: 120 for 56, 50. The motion was not accepted. I therefore state that the time limit for the hearing remains under the law of 60 days. Thank you to the Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Richard Brabco, thank you to the rapporteur and finish point 2. Before interrupting the meeting by 2:30 pm, I remind all the Members of Interpelling and Interpelling Members of the Government that, as soon as the applications for oral interpelations to the Prime Minister have been exhausted, there will be an interpelation on the members of the Government. For this reason, we ask for the timely readiness of the inter-governmental members of the government and of the inter-pelling Members. I remind my colleagues that they are excused from the members of the government only for working reasons Klára Dostálová, Jiří Milek and until 15.30 pm Robert Plaga. Madam Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová is excused from this morning's meeting, so she'll be at the patronage. For health reasons Martin Stropnický is excused for the whole day, he will not, and for working reasons Karla Šlechtová, who will not either. Dan Ťok is excused from this morning's meeting, so he will be excused by Ilja Šmíd in the afternoon, and Dan Ťok will be excused by 13:00 in the afternoon's meeting. So that's all the apologies. I wish you a good lunch, and I'll meet you at the interpelatics this afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-18-ps2017-006-02-002-002.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you to the next part of the Chamber of Deputies programme this afternoon. The next item is today's
