ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u1	3. Remembrance of victims to the 50th anniversary of the invasion and occupation of the Czechoslovak army of the Warsaw Treaty in 1968 I'm opening this point. I ask that Mr Jan Bartošek take the floor on this point, who, if he agrees, will also become his rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Since yesterday we recalled 50 years of invasion of Warsaw Pact troops in the territory of the Czech Republic, it is necessary to declare clearly how we will deal with this. To make it clear that the invasion of the armies of the Warsaw Treaty on the territory of Czechoslovakia in August 1968 was an invasion and subsequent occupation, and it is necessary that the resolution that will be proposed be a clear message to the public, a clear message to the people, but also to other states, including Russia, that we do not accept comments that have recently been heard, namely comments that relativise the events of August 21, in which 137 people died as a result of the occupation in 1968. These comments are made not only by many Prorussian servers, but also by some Czech politicians, mostly from KSČM. For example, yesterday we were involved in the fact that Mr Grospič, through Mr President, prevented us from using the word occupation for invasion. But by such conduct, politicians admit that August 1968's events are to be doubted, allowing historical events to be twisted. It must be made clear that an aggressive invasion of the Warsaw Treaty forces took place on the night of August 20th to 21st. It was an invasion in violation of international law followed by the period of occupation. [[15.20 hours]] We could tell ourselves where the Communist Party remembered the victims of the occupation, but I don't think there's any need to ask because yesterday the occupation was quite intensely remembered by the statue of Koněv. That's what I think the answer is. That is why we propose that the Chamber of Deputies today conclude that it is not good to give space to misinterpretations, to relativize this for the history of Czechoslovakia and the Czech Republic tragic events. A clear message needs to be sent, not softened or excused, something that doesn't deserve an apology. For almost 30 years, we have been trying to recover from the blows that totalitarianism has given us. Let us continue to appreciate the freedom that we have and have completely lost after 1968 for 20 years. Let's not say it was different. It was an invasion, an aggression against Czechoslovakia. It is important that we do not forget these events. And we must remember them not only because of the past that we have been through and which we will not change today, but mainly because of our future, so that we can remember what happened in the Czech Republic so that our past does not recur and that our children can live in democracy and freedom. It should be noted that the consequences of 1968 were reflected in the fact that many people were forced to emigrate. The consequences of 1968 destroyed a vast number of human lives, fates. There's been a background check, there's been a layoffs, schools. It must be made clear that we refuse to manipulate history and, on the contrary, we want to call it real names. The events in 1968 were the aggression of the occupying forces. I will read the motion for a resolution in a detailed debate, but I will read it in advance. The motion for a resolution will read: "The Chamber of Deputies declares that the invasion of the troops of the five States of the Warsaw Treaty in August 1968 was an act of invasion and subsequent occupation and was contrary to international law." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u3	Thank you, too. I ask that you then deliver the motion for a resolution to me as President. And we have a collection of apologies here. Mr Vácha apologizes to us between 15 and 19 o'clock for health reasons. Mrs Levová apologizes to us from 15 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr Julius Špičák apologizes to us by the end of the day for working reasons. Mr. Lukáš Černohorský apologizes for family reasons throughout the day. Mr Ivo Vondrák apologizes to us between 16 and 19.00 because of negotiations in the electoral region. Mr Patrik Nacher apologizes to us between the 14th and the 22nd hours of the hearing. Thank you. And I am now opening a general debate in which I do not have written applications, but Mr Valenta has applied for me. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a very brief step from this point - perhaps a technical point would suffice for me to do so, but I do not want to be interrupted - I would like to respond and justify why I abstained in voting on the proposal to include this point, because I agree more or less with the principle of that point, but some concerns me in this context. I am not at all opposed to discussing here that the invasion of the Warsaw Treaty troops was against the principles of international law and ultimately damaged the entire socialism, as a mental framework. My family also had long-term political problems with the judgments of the invasion, and for example my mother, who was then a member of the KSČ, has not been a member of the party since then. What bothers me, however, is that it is this proposal that comes from folks whose representatives today openly support the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, which, among other things, is the anti-Czech association Witikobund, an organization founded by the Sudeten German Nazis in 1948. The President of KDU-ČSL Bělobrádek or the former Minister of Culture Herman, also a folk protagonist, can be mentioned by name and, fortunately, the currently unsuccessful candidate for the House. For further information, ladies and gentlemen, among the founding members of the obscure community, such as Witikobund, and I quote from open sources, they were, for example, Walter Brand, head of Konrad Henlein's Office, organizer of Sudetendeutsches Freikorps and Hauptsturmführer SA, who was chairman of Witikobund from 1950 to 1952; Frank Seiboth - Hauptsturmführer SS, chairman of Witikobund in 1953 - 1955. And also, for example, Heinz Lange - a member of the NSDAP, a member of the SS Das Reich tank division, which is responsible for many war crimes, and he was - and now listen, ladies and gentlemen - President of Witikobund in 1959 until 1983. And many other war criminals. And with their direct successors today, KDU-ČSL colleagues are in practically one opinion, and they even consider this approach to be an act of international reconciliation. But what did I mean in general? That any political entity that has its own butter on its head and basically excuses the German occupation of Czechoslovakia during the Second World War and rewrites such modern history and, in another respect, stands up for the intrepid protector of our nation's whole, plus the one who helped to dismantle two smaller units himself in the 1990's and from elsewhere better manageable, is untrustworthy for me and any reasonable, thinking person. The sum of the sum, and I repeat again, the proposal to discuss this issue is completely legitimate, but it cannot come from the KDU-ČSL workshop and some others. Unfortunately, this is how I personally have to regard it as hypocritical, as a prime timed agony, and last but not least as completely absurdly russophobic and also distracting attention from the problems of other people in this country's trouble nowadays undoubtedly more, because it is not possible to enter the same river again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u5	Thank you, too. And now, with my priority... I'm going to ask the rapporteur if the registration was a factual point or a performance. [[Member Bartošek: Proper.]] In that case, Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me quote here our website www.kscm.cz, to which many of our representatives refer when they talk about August 1968. Twenty years ago on the round anniversary - also on the round anniversary - this event was taken by the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia by its institutions. We refer to him, repeat him. Few of you, however, have found the time to read it, to know what the position is. And we are constantly confronted with these efforts every year as KSČM to move us into that role responsible for what happened and happened in 1968. So let me quote our position so that you can take a picture of what we approved 20 years ago, what our institutions approved and how we assess 1968. "Date 21. 8. 1968 is part of Czechoslovak, but also European history, which cannot be excluded from the overall context. The unfortunate events of August 1968 in Czechoslovakia were associated with the action of a number of forces. They were marked mainly by the then block division of Europe and the world. A significant part of the members and representatives of the KSČ, with the support of most of the company, sought to overcome social shortcomings and past mistakes, to start new economic development and to democratize society in general. Most society wanted better, more effective socialism. The Communist Party then had the trust of most citizens in the Czechoslovak Republic, given above all relatively the most stable social and economic levels compared to the other states of the Warsaw Treaty. While some groups in the Czechoslovak Republic really sought a coup and a change in the social system, not the democratization of socialism, they did not have the broad support of the citizens of the Czechoslovak Republic. [[15.30 hours]] In the context of the block division of Europe, the violent intervention of the Warsaw Treaty troops, carried out under the silent consent of the United States of America, was to guarantee its realizers the continued existence of our state within the so-called Soviet bloc. Neither the leadership of the Soviet Union nor the Western Power Group was interested in the success of the greater democratization of socialism in the former Czechoslovakia. This undemocratic step literally shocked most of the citizens of the Czech Republic, including many of the former members of the KSČ. The violent entry of troops served rather to the benefit of the countries of capitalist orientation. He blocked the prospect of further progress towards a socially fairer, more democratic socialist society. He contributed to the loss of confidence in the Communist Party and, together with the so-called standardisation checks, he opposed the KSČ and many of its members, who otherwise, in particular, fully identified with its social programme. Many of them joined the Communist Party again after 1989. Despite the temporary maintenance of the conditions of strength and balance on an international scale, which respected the NATO powers, the Czech society did not accept the August entry of troops and did not identify with it as a whole. The shadow of power intervention has profoundly influenced the possibilities of socialism development in our country and has also negatively affected the position of the left throughout Europe." This is the position adopted by the GTC 20 years ago. And it's still valid, and we follow it and stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u7	Thank you, too. Next, I will give the floor to Mr Bartošek. Then I have Mr Žáček's report to the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u8	Thank you. True, I've been waiting to see who would take over the Communist party of the attack. The basis of the pro-Cremel strategy is always to discredit and attack whoever brings whatever idea. For the record, no one in KDU-ČSL has ever met with Witikobund. That needs to be made clear. We still believe that if we want to go forward, we need reconciliation. And reconciliation can only take place on the basis of a request for forgiveness from those who have been aggressive. We need to realize everything that happens in the context of the world around us. Ten years later, double the Rus who approved the occupation of Czechoslovakia in 1968. There are more to those who approve this than there are those who disagree. The papers say that Russian soldiers did their job honestly, and they say that the occupation of Czechoslovakia was necessary at the time. It is also necessary to perceive the result of the efforts of today's Russian leadership to rehabilitate the Soviet Union's time. And we reject efforts to rehabilitate Leonid Brežněv's policy, or even Stalin, which we can sometimes see in Russia. We also refuse to jump on the claim that there was such a time at the time. We need to see this in the context of international events. I say we are a separate nation, and we have the right to make our own decisions. It is also necessary to understand this position after the annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation, because we are not talking about anexi here either, but Russian propaganda calls it that. Maybe it's friendly help again. I respect your resolution you quoted here 20 years ago. But the recent statements made by representatives of the Communist Party need to be addressed. For The Guardian, Chairman Filip says that the Rus cannot invade in 1968, that history is 100 percent forged, that no one will write that the entire position is anti-Russian. He goes on to say: we see no reason to apologize for a 50-year-old event. It must be noted that the Warsaw Treaty was not a union of equal states. This was a union of vassals of Moscow, when there was no choice. I see it as a manipulation of the history of Czechoslovakia or the Czech Republic. I see it as the pro-Cremel methods of lying. I say for myself, it's disparaging the victims of 1968 and then 1969. But that's where it needs to be realized that our people weren't being shot by Russian soldiers, but by our militiamen. And maybe just for the record, to realize what we're celebrating today in a day: 22. 8. 1969 was adopted by the famous Hardcore Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u9	Thank you, too. Before I invite any more speakers, I have a note here. We are apologized to the Prime Minister and Mr Andrej Babiš, who has working reasons at 15 o'clock. Now, please, with two factual points - first, Mr Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u10	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, I will read you a passage from the so-called Czech-German Declaration. The German party acknowledges Germany's responsibility for its role in historical development, which led to the Munich Agreement of 1938, to escape and drive out of the Czechoslovak borderlands, as well as to break down and occupy the Czechoslovak Republic. He regrets the suffering and injustice caused by the Němec to the Czech people by the Nazi Socialist crimes. The German party honors the victims of the Nazi-socialist government of violence and those who opposed it. This is an unbreakable framework within which KDU-ČSL talks to anyone about World War II and the events that preceded this conflict. Nothing more, nothing less. If anyone would question this, the Němec, the Sudeten Němec, the Maďar, anyone else, they simply will not get into the discussion with us! And at a time when the Communist Party for the First Republic granted the Sudeten Němec the right to self-determination, these are the facts, in the 1930s it was in other words for Sudety to break away from Czechoslovakia, so the people through its chairman Šrámek, who also founded the Eagle body organization, had just intensified the work of this organization because they wanted to prepare our young people to defend their homeland. And these eagles, the folks, fought to free our country! And what did the eagles finally see? Destroying the Communist Party. Last week we remembered their pilgrimage to Hostyn. And just to remind you. Two of the parachutists who assassinated Heydrich were eagles, they were offsprings of the People's Party's body organization!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u11	Thank you. Mr Luzar, please. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u12	Thank you for the floor. I took the facts. I don't want to prolong this debate, just factual remarks about the previous speakers. We've heard a passage from the declaration. I would also like my colleagues to remember their Minister of Czech Government, Mr Herman, and his wonderful rides, and what he said and who he was meeting mainly on these graceful rides, so that we can understand how it was in that position and what the declaration is and what the deed is, unfortunately, the Czech Minister's deed. And through you to your colleague Bartošek. He's done that kind of shortcut again in his performance, which he's famous for. The Soviet Union is simply not Russia and Russia is not the Soviet Union. Try to realize that simply Brežněv is not Putin, though you like uniting together, but that it is just another state. History was like that. Yes, the Soviet Union was dominant, the others were vassals. Russia is in a slightly different position and don't mix it up here especially with this anniversary, because the short-term negotiations then lead to very serious consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u13	Thank you. I've got some tickets again. Mr Ondráček apologizes to us from 15.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. And he apologizes to us for working reasons, Mr Řehounek, since 15.45. And I will now ask Mr Žáček, who is in writing entered into the general debate. A Rakušan Member will be prepared to report to me from his post. [[15.40 hours]] And I will now ask Mr Žáček, who is in writing entered into the general debate. A Rakušan Member will be prepared to report to me from his post.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to get back to the subject. This topic is a tribute to the memory of the victims of the invasion and occupation of Czechoslovakia in 1968, as we approved. And, of course, it is absurd to listen here to the litany of KSČM colleagues on their ambivalent settlement with the past. So to bring it back, yesterday's day, as we've all noticed, has flown through the Czech Republic a number of events, a series of piets, remembering the names of the dead directly linked to the occupation, which began from August 20th to August 21. And the first phase of the dead, which is associated with this beginning, is completed on December 1968. By the way, this occupation, according to the latest sums of fellow historians from the Military Historical Institute, brought more than 400 deaths. Yesterday we reminded you of this, for your information, half a day in Wenceslas Square for quite a great deal of interest to citizens, and not just to the Pražan. The only place where we haven't remembered the dead that the occupation has brought is the Chamber of Deputies. So I would like to load here in alphabetical order, and I would like to keep my voice down and some appropriate atmosphere, the names of the victims that are known to this day. In advance, I say the list is incomplete. I'll read them alphabetically: Oprendek Ondrej, JosefTóth Jan, Stanislav Peter, Paulík VodákováMušec Marie Dominik Soukup Škavová Trechová Rudolf Žemlička Josef Alojz Schmiedt František Eduard Winter Zdeněk Luboš Václav Jaroslav Veselý Zdechovan Štefan Zinovjev, UlickáMartoník Sušánková Štefan Ilja Davídek starý. And a few others, unfortunately, still unknown. I think we could, and it is above all other words, devote two minutes of silence to these fallen as a result of the occupation of the armies of the Warsaw Pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u15	Thank you, too, and please be quiet for two minutes. [[Members rise up and worship the memory of the victims.]] Thank you. Mrs Němcová is withdrawing her application, okay. So please Mr. Rakušan, who is now logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your word. And, Mr President, I would like to thank KDU-ČSL representatives, but also Mr Žáček, for what has been said here. I'd have two short reasons for that. Firstly, we may have all registered how our youth is familiar with the events of 1968 in the survey presented by Czech Television. The knowledge was ruthless, and it deeply touched me as a history teacher. And I think that any speech that falls on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies that reminds itself of events that are 50 years old and so dramatically changed the course of our state is very necessary. It's a signal to society, it's a signal for the young generation, it's a signal that we, too, in the Chamber of Deputies, are aware of our own history. And then I'd like to remind you, not a historian, but a history teacher - it's a big difference - one more important thing. You know, right after World War II, the Holocaust deniers weren't among us. Why? Because they were confronted with those who survived the concentration camp, who returned. They were confronted with those who sensed the smell of burned bodies from crematoriums in concentration camps. At that time, no one dared to question such a tragedy in the face of those survivors. It is good to speak aloud about 1968 even now, as long as there are a large number of commemorators among us. I'm not one, but I like to listen to them. I like to listen to their life stories, and I like to hear about how their life changed, how their life hopes went away, how their families fell apart by emigration. How they lost their jobs when they were interrogated at the review boards. It is simply good not to react to this, and we feel slowly that even in the various conversations that have already been discussed here, there is a time when the 50-year-old history of our country is slowly but certainly starting to relativize. It's already been said that the place where the tragedy and horror came from, maybe it wasn't Russia, and it was actually someone else behind it, and God knows how it was, and it all needs to be put into some international context that was certainly complicated, and who knows what would have happened if those sovět hadn't come along with our country. This is the relativization of history that we can afford after some time, when the event is already far away, but we still cannot afford it completely, because we have people who lived with each other at that time, even sitting here in the House and already meeting Russian soldiers on the streets and already feeling the disillusion that the nation was experiencing at that time. [[15.50 hours]] That is why it is important to talk about these events not only today, but also in a year, but also in two. Above all, it is very important that we talk about them in our families, because education does not start with a school where it will wake up twice and the prehistoric is still given the same attention as the 20th century. This begins in families when we tell our children that any relativization of suffering and our own history is devastating to every nation. And let's not allow it on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u17	Thank you, too. And I have a note. Mrs Maxová apologizes from 15.45 until the end of the day for reasons of work. At this point, I have no factual remarks or applications for a debate, yet it has been announced that the motion for a resolution will be read... Mr. Fiala reporting. There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the SPD's position. Let me make this clear to you on this point. Our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy is a movement that is programmed to defend freedom, democracy, national interest and sovereignty of the Czech Republic. These programming principles clearly show our position on events in August 1968. We evaluate these events as a clear and gross violation of the remnants of sovereignty and independence of the then Czechoslovak Socialist Republic. It was an armed invasion completely contrary to international law. I am also getting ahead of myself here, and we are reporting directly to the resolution you have read here. In connection with this act of armed aggression against the then Republic, it is necessary to express the deepest respect and pieto to the innocent victims of this aggressive incursion. On political responsibility, the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and, of course, the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, which usurped political power in Czechoslovakia in 1948 and gradually surrendered the sovereignty of Czechoslovakia into the hands of the totalitarian Soviet empire, have a clear political responsibility for this aggression. The invasion of the armies of the Warsaw Treaty was a logical part of building this communist empire of the Soviet type. The subsequent placement of Soviet army troops in the territory of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic was an expression of the total loss of sovereignty, independence and cannot be found any other word for the assessment of this condition than the word occupation. It is completely irrelevant that it was formally approved by the then political representatives of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic and the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia. Unlike the occupation by Nazi Germany, the occupation by the Soviet army helped suppress the political rights of Czechoslovak citizens, but it did not seek the actual destruction of our nation directly. That was a statement about 1968, and now let me make a short parallel and a little memento. Our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy sees a fundamental current memento of 1968 in that, just as then, the Czech Republic is slowly handing over an increasingly important part of its national sovereignty, this time within the framework of the European integration project. The current form of the European Union bears clear elements of neo-Marxist totalitarianism, such as positive discrimination against minorities, dictation of minorities, multiculturalism, subsidy economy and destruction of traditional family values. Whoever talks about the western anchoring of the Czech Republic in connection with today's EU and defends the current form of this European integration either lives in a fatal political error or consciously helps the emergence of this advancing dangerous totalitarianism. The current form of European integration seeks to completely destroy the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, and the policy of multiculturalism and controlled immigration of the European Union is aimed directly at the destruction of European nations. Today, every inch of the rest of our sovereignty must be defended against the major danger of neo-Marxist totalitarianism that threatens us from the Brussels elites. Our SPD is refusing to abuse the comments of the 1968 tragedy on the incitement of irrational hatred of today's Russia. However, we also reject the rewriting of history by some representatives of today's Communist Party who are trying to replace the words aggression or occupation in the 1968 event assessment. In conclusion, let me do two things. First, to once again show respect for the innocent victims of the aggression of the armies of the Warsaw Treaty. That is something we could agree on across the political spectrum, not to mention the representatives of the Communists. Secondly, I would like to say that unfortunately, very little has been done after 1989 in the matter of punishing people who have embezzled their oaths or constitutional vows and have helped this aggression and trampled on the sovereignty of the Czech Republic. Such people must be punished because this is the most serious crime against our state and nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u19	Thank you, too. And Mr Veselý, with a point of fact, came forward for the debate. Mr Veselý, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I really can't stay long. I must turn to my previous speaker through Mr President. Mr. Colleague, the first part of your performance made me so happy that I thought for the first time that I would agree to the SPD. You definitely screwed up the other part. I'm glad I'm where I've been, I guess so are you. And I just want to say that I will, of course, join the resolution that will be read, and I assume that the colleague who reads it will, of course, only return to the first part and the second part will be completely ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u21	I, too, thank you, and I now ask the rapporteur to read the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u22	Thank you. Indeed, the point that was included was that of 1968 and that of honoring the victims of these people, not the current situation, although I respect your speech. I will read the motion for a resolution which says that the Chamber of Deputies declares that the invasion of five states of the Warsaw Treaty in August 1968 was an act of invasion and subsequent occupation and was contrary to international law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u23	Thank you. I shall ask once again for his delivery in writing to the President. [[Handed over.]] Thank you. So, at this point, I am ending the general debate. I suppose there is no interest in the final word at this time, so I am opening up a debate in detail to which President Bartošek is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u24	Thank you. I refer to the resolution I read in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u25	Thank you, too. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate at this point. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate in detail. I suppose there's no interest in the final word again. In that case, we will vote on the motion for a resolution as a whole. There were no amendments. I will read it again: The Chamber of Deputies declares that the invasion of five states of the Warsaw Treaty in August 1968 was an act of invasion and subsequent occupation and was contrary to international law. Thank you. I suppose... [[Notes whether the resolution has been read correctly.]] I'll consult. One minute. I'm gonna interrupt for a second, it's not exactly perfect. I'm interrupting negotiations until 4:00 p.m. to resolve some technical deficiencies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u26	I'm sorry. Well, I'll read it one more time just in case. If there's any reservations, we'll deal with it. So: "The Chamber of Deputies declares that the invasion of five states of the Warsaw Treaty in August 1968 into Czechoslovakia was an act of invasion and subsequent occupation and was contrary to international law." I assume that the motion for a resolution is clear to all at the moment. I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. just in case. I don't see a checkout request at the moment. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 13. 156 Members are registered, for 145, against no one. I note that the House has given its consent to the motion for a resolution and has therefore been approved. President Bartošek is in favour of this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u27	Thank you. Before this meeting, my fellow Members, is concluded, I would like to thank you for supporting the KDU-ČSL motion for a resolution and expressing respect and respect for the people who fell in 1968 as a result of the invasion of the Warsaw Pact. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-003-003.u28	Thank you, too. Madam Members, I am of the opinion that we have discussed the programme set by the 18th session of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am ending with this.
