ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u1	127. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended /German press 160/ - Third reading The Senator is already present and has taken her place at the rapporteur's table and I will ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Social Policy Committee, Mrs Lenka Dražilová, to join the rapporteur's table as well. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 160/5, which was delivered on 14 November 2018. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 160/6. I ask the appellant if she is interested in speaking before the start of the debate. He's interested. So please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u2	Mr President, honourable and kind Members, I would just like to summarize that the Senate bill amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on social services, as amended, and some related laws, solves an increase in the allowance for care for severely disabled citizens, whether under the age of 18, so over 18 years of age. It is proposed to increase the amount of care allowance in the fourth degree of dependence, which is a total dependence, from 13 200 to 19 200 crowns. This will strengthen the beneficiary's financial resources for the care of those in the home environment and, in fact, the possibility of lightening up the family. The increase in the contribution will affect 25,000 people, which means an increase in the budget by CZK 1.8 billion. The aim of this Senate proposal is to address the people with the highest level of support in a difficult social and health situation and to ensure that they can remain in the home environment. Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u3	I thank you and open the debate. At the moment, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has signed up with priority rights. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that the Senate bill regulates, in its original version, an increase in the amount of care allowance for persons under 18 years of age and for persons over 18 years of age who do not use social services or a children's home or a special hospital-type hospital, from 13 200 crowns to 19 200 crowns per calendar month. This increase is clearly supported by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In this context, I draw attention to the fact that this is money for informal care. It is a type of care that will become important in future years and decades in connection with demographic developments in the Czech Republic. Please note that today we have a fifth of the population over 65, in 2030 it will be a quarter, and by 2050 it will be a third of the population. At the same time, in 2050, every tenth citizen of the Czech Republic will be over 85 years old. This means that we will have nearly a million inhabitants over 85 years of age. It is clear from these figures that we will not only be able to focus on residential facilities, but also on the development of outpatient social services as well as support for informal carers. And that's why this senatorial proposal from Mr., the deceased today, Senator Plaček, has our support. I would also like to stress that this is about caring for people who need care seven days a week 24 hours a day. And for this intensity, CZK 19,200 is the minimum limit from my perspective. I would also like to stress that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs supports or shares the view that an increase in the amount of the care allowance should also take place in the level of dependence of III for the above group of persons. For this reason, I am expressly in favour of Mr Sklenák's amendment. I would also like to point out that an increase in the allowance for care in IV. The degree is a thing that we have been promising as a ministry and also members of the Chamber of Deputies, as I have been informed, for several years. That is why I think it would increase the allowance for care in IV. The degree should have occurred immediately. But for budgetary reasons, I agree with the proposal that III do. Grades should be increased from 1 July. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in recent years the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has managed to save money on benefits in the order of billions of crowns thanks to the excellent economic condition of the Czech Republic. That is why it is actually good news that these funds can be used for those who need them most, that is, for those who are not self-sufficient and for those who care for them. As far as other amendments are concerned, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs cannot clearly support or recommend them. We stand either neutral or, where appropriate, directly disagreeable, for reasons either factual or legislative. Some amendments, for example, lack transitional provisions. That's all for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Next, Mrs Brzobohatá is enrolled in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u6	Thank you so much for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important day for handicapped people, because the contribution to care will be changed in some way. There wasn't a vote, so obviously we don't know how it's gonna turn out yet, but I think it's definitely a good thing. I suppose it would be necessary to thank the Minister of Finance, who didn't count on it, but she will certainly be able to find some funding for this increase. But I don't know if it's completely fair from my point of view that it's going to increase the care allowance in third and fourth degree, that it doesn't think about others who have first and second degree. Because now there's gonna be a big difference between two and three, if we approve, of course, almost 8,000. And I think it's gonna be a big problem for the medical review service, because a lot of people are gonna want to raise that number from number two to number three. Anyway, it's good to do what we're doing today. It's for handicapped people, including me, and I really appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u7	Thank you, Madame. I'll read a few apologies. Mr Lubomír Volný apologizes from today's meeting from 9 a.m. to the end of the day, Mrs Pastuchová apologises from 12 a.m. for health reasons and Mrs Radka Maxová from 10.30 for personal reasons. Next, Mr Sklenák, to whom I hereby give the floor, is entered in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. As I spoke with the representatives of the various Members' Clubs, I am convinced that this bill will be approved today. It's just a question of what form, of course. So whether the care allowance will increase only in the fourth degree or also in the third degree, in what amount and since. These are the questions in the amendments that have been tabled. And all these amendments are mutually exclusive, so only one can be approved. I would naturally like to intercede for the adoption of my amendment, which increases the care allowance for those who do not live in residential facilities, in the fourth degree to CZK 19,200, in the third stage to children and adolescents to CZK 13,900 and in the third stage to CZK 12,800. Of the amendments that have been tabled, this is most generous for those who do not live in residential facilities. [[9.20 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are 85,000 people and their families, whom we can make their relatively difficult lives a little more bearable, a little more dignified, a little happier. I understand that we are all considering budgetary implications which, of course, are not small, but I believe that we should help these people. I'd almost say we have to help them. As you may already know, the Social Policy Guarantee Committee has supported two, mine that I have presented to you, and Mrs Lenka Dražilová's amendment, as well as the draft procedure. At this point, I would like to report that when we get to this stage, I will propose a change of procedure because, as I have perceived you, one of these two amendments has the greatest chance of adopting. Since mine is, I would say, more generous to those beneficiaries, I think it has the logic to be voted first, and in the event that it is not adopted, an amendment by Mrs Dražilová would be voted. I just want to make an update that I'm going to be filing this motion to change the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your speech raised Mr. Třešňák's factual comment. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I apologize for entering into this factually, but I wanted to express my support for our club to change the procedure proposed by Mr Sklenák because I think it makes more sense in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u11	Thank you. Next, Mrs Šafránková is enrolled in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD has long supported a significant improvement in the state's and public administration's approach to our disabled fellow citizens and their families. First of all, of course, this must be a significant increase in financial state social support and aid, even because the adjustment of its amount in individual legal categories has been practically blocked for many years or only slightly increased compared to other social benefits and transfers. This is, of course, related to other issues in the area of social services and care for the disabled, increasing the capacity of the relevant facilities, significantly increasing the wages of their employees, increasing attention to the needs of special education, really enabling care of these persons within the family. This is also the topic and content of the Senate amendment to Act No.108/2006 Coll., on Social Services. All members of the SPD therefore strongly support the intention to support the increase of contributions to care for persons in the fourth degree of dependence from the existing 13 200 CZK to 19 200 CZK. Since these are people who require 24 hours a day care, this is an absolutely necessary increase, albeit far from sufficient, both when families use assistance services or not and when they take care of their relatives by their own forces. In any case, if we do not want to put thousands of families in the position of Sophiina's election between the existential distress and the trust of her disabled family member, often a child, into a constitutional type facility, we must take at least this first step while working urgently on a system of regular valorisation of contributions in all four stages of disability. The face of GDP growth and the amount of funds collected from the taxes that this government boasts about its way is unbelievable and shameless that it also opposes this proposal with the justification that it would mean an increase in state budget spending of 1.8 billion, a sum that accounts for about 3 per cent of the annual expenditure of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, as well as a sum that can be found without major difficulty in the draft budget for next year in the form of certain savings in the necessary or unduly overfinanced appropriations. It must be admitted to this Ministry that, unlike the government as a whole, it has changed its initially negative attitude towards this amendment over time and through Deputy Minister Tříska the Ministry recognised that it is very necessary to adjust the contribution to care for persons in the third degree of dependence. The amendments by Mr Bauer, Mr Sklenák and Mr Kaňkovský also go in the same direction, with the option of Mr Bauer assuming the most significant increase. We also strongly support these proposals in the SPD, preferably in the form presented by Mr Bauer, but every increase in this category is better than nothing and more than the current situation. The main reasons are as follows. The current setting is long-term low, does not correspond to the increase in the price level of living costs, the difference between the third and fourth levels of dependence is often very thin. Even persons in the third degree of addiction often require 24-hour care a day, lower than the difference in the amount of contributions, and also if there were an increase in the allowance only in the fourth degree, this difference would increase to about 8,000 crowns. An increased number of applications for transfer from third to fourth grade may be expected. Dear colleagues, this issue cannot really be viewed only by an accounting perspective and by the state budget. The growth of modern society and the state must above all be measured by the way we approach our handicapped fellow citizens. Therefore, we should all support the Senate proposal and the amendments that increase the contribution of third-degree persons without greater hesitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u13	Thank you. Next, Mrs Richterová is enrolled in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Madam Senator, much has already been said about the care allowance. For the pirate MP's club, we would like to begin by summing up that we were very happy from the beginning that this proposal came from the Senate, that we supported the increase from the beginning, and we very much appreciate that, in the course of the discussion, which, we know, in particular from the financial point of view, has led to the fact that there will definitely be a significant increase in the contribution to care in the fourth degree of dependence, and hopefully also a relatively significant increase in the contribution at the third stage. I would like to point out that we are clearly behind the Senate proposal for CZK 19,200. We consider the possible approval of only CZK 17 200 as an inadmissible reduction. In the same way, we will be very happy to see Mr Sklenák's proposal, which also gives the highest increase in the third degree of addiction. However, we ourselves, through my colleague Petr Třešňák, submitted a lower proposal for an increase in order to at least get through something. But we will all support the increase, because it has not really been validated for years, and it cannot be said that this money is not appropriate. [[9.30 hours]] Now a few more comments that haven't quite been made. It is absolutely essential that the Department of Labour, as it says, actually prepares a system valorisation. For this to be the last such undignified discussion where people with disabilities came to us to campaign to convince us. It is really necessary to set up an automatic valorisation mechanism that will work. We know that one parliamentary proposal puts this forward. We do not consider this to be a happy connection to specific indicators, but in principle, we are completely in favour. There should be no fixed amounts in the law. The second thing is very closely related to the shameful situation of medical evaluation, a very long-term assessment. We are constantly discussing this with the Committee on Social Policy, but it is another matter that makes life with disabilities very difficult. Finally, the last thing I want to stress most is that we still lack a truly comprehensive, regionally accessible network of services, a network of social and social health services. And that's what I want to conclude by reminding you all that a network of services like this can really be needed by the end of our lives. We went through this as a family. In fact, my parents took care of my grandmother with Alzheimerův's disease for seven years at home, which gradually progressed and finally had the complete addiction. And actually, the worst part wasn't that those caring parents had a relatively low care allowance to compensate for their salary. The worst was the difficult availability of lightening services, in addition to the so-called respectable stays, when parents needed to go on vacation and we couldn't take care of it anymore or we couldn't, so it was very difficult to cope with the difficult situation of actually supportive care staff, with how poorly paid they were, because they were women who helped with the assistance, such as turning around, washing etc. In short, the whole sector was provided with nonprofit services and for extremely low wages and the self-sacrificing work of those people. This is something that not only do those who care every day, like my or our personal experience, experience their loved ones, who wish they could live to live at home, but it is also a situation for families of children with autism. Again, it is something that most of you seem to know, but it is such a difficult situation for those families who are not even getting a service today to help them, that in this context I want to remind them that if we increase the care allowance, we are helping all these groups, but at the same time we must not resign to developing a service network. So, one final point. We can so easily make this decision in the House that we will give the highest possible support to people with various types of disability, with special needs, so that they can decide how to use their care allowance. That's great, but it's the easy part. The harder part, namely working, nationwide, regionally accessible and at the same time financially secured network of social and social health services, is something that is much more complex. So far, it's up to individuals to be self - sacrificing, and we're definitely not going to solve it with some kind of pen move or one vote. Only continuous work and, of course, large system work by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. So I believe that today the proposals to increase the contribution in the fourth degree of dependence of 19 200 will go through Mr Sklenák's proposal for a higher, more pronounced increase even in the third degree of dependence and that a permanent valuation mechanism will then be introduced. We all deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u15	I thank you, Madame, and Mr Kaňkovský is also in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u16	Good morning, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Allow me to present to you here the position of the KDU-ČSL club on the Senate amendment to the Social Services Act, which we have discussed repeatedly and which deals with the priority increase in care allowance in the most difficult, i.e. the fourth stage of care allowance. It has already been said from both my mouth and from my colleagues' mouth at first and second reading that KDU-ČSL supports an increase in the contribution to care in the long term, not only when discussing this Senate bill. But I have very much welcomed the Senate proposal of my colleague Plaček, but also the present colleague, Mrs Třísková, and I can say that the Senators of the KDU-ČSL Senator's Club and the Independents also very actively supported this Senate proposal. In the same way, we KDU-ČSL Members have already mentioned in the first reading that an isolated increase in the care allowance only in the fourth degree would actually dispel the system of social services and care for the most severe disability. I mentioned that there would be a difference between the third and fourth levels of more than 8,000 crowns. That is why I have promised here, and we have kept our promise to present during the legislative process, which will propose an increase in the care allowance at level three, and I have also said here that it will be CZK 4,000. We have presented this both in the Committee on Social Policy and subsequently here at second reading. The discussion in the Committee on Social Policy was very difficult. We have discussed a number of criteria, we have also discussed whether there is a reasonable increase in the care allowance only for clients in the home environment, but this discussion has not yet been concluded. We see the need to deal with the situation of clients of residential services in the future, however, to build on grant titles for social services and actually to elaborate the change of the system is a rather complex task and it is not possible if we do not want to delay the increase in the care allowance, it is possible to do so within the framework of this amendment. Nevertheless, I have tabled an amendment to the Association of Providers' Instigation, which you have in your voting procedure under the letter H10, which would increase, at least in the most difficult fourth degree, the contribution to care also by CZK 6,000, as with those clients in the home environment, but with delayed efficiency from 1. 1. 2021. There was just ambition until then to change the grant title for social services. Unfortunately, the error in the preparation of this amendment was that the H10 amendment would postpone the effectiveness of increasing the fourth-degree care allowance for all consumers, which also means for those in the home environment. It is a mistake in submitting this amendment, and I would like to ask the House, at third reading, to vote on the withdrawal of this amendment, i.e. to withdraw the amendment under H10, so that we do not complicate the situation, because none of us, or I believe that none of us would want what we are discussing so long, that this means that we will make the situation easier for the most difficult disabilities, so that efficiency will be postponed here only from January 2021. That was not intended, and I am stressing it here, which is why I want us to withdraw this amendment, and I want to ask you politely. As has been said many times today, the Czech Republic has debt in the long term to those who are struggling with the most severe health disabilities. It has also been said that if we were only to increase the care allowance in the fourth degree, we would wobble up the system, we would overwhelm, among other things, the medical assessment service with requests for review of those persons who have received a third degree care allowance, and this aspect also needs to be mentioned here. Therefore, KDU-ČSL clearly supports that, in addition to the announced and very necessary increase in the care allowance in the fourth degree by CZK 6,000, the House today approved an increase in the care allowance in the third stage. I think we should seek a compromise in this regard. [[9.40 hours]] I noted here this morning when we were still talking in the galleys that perhaps the gentlemen's agreement is coming up to postpone political shirts and agree on one amendment that would address precisely the increase in the care allowance at third level. It sounds here, and I strongly hope it is a consensus that this will be the amendment of a fellow Roman Sklenák. Of course, we also logically advocate our amendment, which is in the system under the letters H7 to H9, which also increases the contribution to third-level care by CZK 4,000. However, we are prepared to go through an increase in the care allowance for CZK 4 000, which we consider best, to support both the change in the procedure, that is, to be the first to be voted after legislative technical changes, so we are prepared to support the proposal by Mr Sklenák in the vote itself, i.e. an increase of CZK 4 000 in the third stage, even if there is a slight delay from 1. 7. 2019. Finally, let me say, just as my colleague, Mr Olga Richterová, has already mentioned, through Mr President, but also other speakers, we owe a great deal to those who are accompanied by a significant health disability, not only in the area of care allowance but also in the provision of services, but also in the way in which we have set up a system for granting a care allowance, how we have set up some other criteria for assessing their health status. We've been discussing all this here. And I again call on Minister Maláčová to prepare a conceptual material in a short time, which will sum up the most important tasks that we have for both disabled people and their families. It needs to be realized that if someone cares about their closest 24 hours with the most severe disability, it is a really big sacrifice. Of course, those families like to do it for their loved ones, but they can't do without the help of the state. The state simply has to help these families. Because they are struggling not only with the financial side, it is only one plane of the problem, but they often struggle with the unkindness of the system of granting different types of benefits. They are struggling with great bureaucracy and sometimes, in my opinion, with some injustice in admitting a care allowance. They fight the lack of some types of social services, but also health services. All of this needs to be taken into account. And as our populations age, we will really face these problems more and more. And it is here for cooperation between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health to really approach this issue with the greatest urgency. And in conclusion, I dare ask both ministers to do so. And I would like to ask you, my dear fellow Members: let us put aside the political shirts, let us try to really agree on one amendment, which therefore shows that the proposal is a colleague of the Sklenák. Let us support it and support the entire law so that disability in the most difficult stages will receive an increase in the care allowance as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u17	I thank you and Mrs Pekarová is next in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madame Senator, I will also say the opinion of our Party TOP 09 on this bill. I would like to thank the senators once again for the draft they gave us. Of course I also thank Mr. Senator Plačka, who unfortunately is no longer among us. But I think that they have opened up a very important topic and that, therefore, they have made sure that we can improve the lives of tens of thousands of people who are among us today and who have some kind of health disability and therefore need great help from their surroundings and, of course, from the whole society, the state. As far as the amendments proposed are concerned, the amendments in their own way respond in particular to the amount of the care allowance, and there is another one among them, the one that I have tabled, and it is in a way out of control by trying to make a contribution to care and to give a new system at all to determine the amount of care. That is why I would like to draw particular attention to this amendment of mine, because they are trying to make sure that people who are dependent on the care allowance do not wait for changes in the laws that we are doing around once or twice during the parliamentary term, but that they are certain that their benefits, to which they and often others are dependent, increase as much as the standard of living in the Czech Republic increases. I think that it is very logical to introduce a system of valorisation within this dose, and it is logical because it is very similar to pensions, where valorisation is automatic and where neither of us doubt that the system of raising pensions should be automatically audited. And so I ask why, in the case of pensions, where people who receive pensions are essentially very dependent on them, we consider this to be correct, logical, of course, so why, even for this benefit, where the dependence of people on them is also high, similar, we do not consider this to be normal and logical, why we do not yet have such a system. My amendment has chosen an indicator, or I have chosen a minimum wage indicator in it, because, in the case of a third-degree care allowance, an addiction that already requires very often very intensive assistance, because it is a heavy dependence, so for this reason I think that people who are not just direct family members of those disabled people should also be involved here, but that they should also be able to be professionals. And if a professional provides assistance services for someone, de facto at least as his main employment, then of course he must also be adequately rewarded, and lower than the minimum wage is probably hard to allow. So for that reason, it's just a third degree charge for minimum wage. And for the other stages, therefore, the form of multiples is adequately derived, so that, of course, none of the four stages are beaten, so that none of the beneficiaries will be reduced, on the contrary, compared to the current situation, everyone would be better off, and especially at the fourth stage, which is the main subject of our discussions here. So the system, which builds on the minimum wage in the form of these multiples, I consider it very logical, but I understand and am aware of the discussion both here at second reading and, of course, at the Committee on Social Policy, that it is not entirely happy to come up with a relatively radical change in the system of payment of this benefit in the form of an amendment. I'm aware of that. I am saying this frankly because I wanted to raise this debate at least on how we could bring such a rating system into the system of payment of this benefit, and so I want to appeal to the government and, in particular, to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, so that they come up with their own proposal on how to deal with it, so that we do not have to have these long debates about increasing the levy in the future and that people who depend on this dose know that they will increase their dose each year. I think that this is also very important in order to make social services more predictable in general, and thus more predictable in this sphere. Therefore, if the amendment that I am proposing does not go through, I would very much like you to support the accompanying resolution on this bill which is dealing with this issue and which calls on the government to come up with a valorisation mechanism, to come up with a system that will be really well worked out and will suit future years and therefore be indisputable. I think that this is a minimum requirement and that it is from this point of view a matter that may still need to move the whole issue forward during this parliamentary term. [[9.50 hours]] If I could, I will stop very briefly for the second amendment that I am proposing, for variant number 2 of my amendment, which is just trying to increase the third-level care allowance, namely to 12,200, the minimum wage that we have today because I think it should not be lower than the minimum wage, so that people who are dependent on help can also afford to pay a professional. After all, not every wheelchair user has the opportunity to help someone in his family, and if he is to pay someone to assist him, often so that he can work at all, because not everyone, of course, has to be dependent only on help and stay at home or be most employed in a protected job, I think that they should be able to participate in the work and normal life as much as possible to integrate themselves, so they need this assistance and at least at this level they should be able to pay it. And I don't think there should be such a big difference either, which, if we didn't approve any of the amendments that are here, but there's a whole series of contributions to this level in the third degree, there would be a big gap between the fourth and third degrees, and I don't think that's right either. I don't think there should be a gap as big as this. I would also like to point out that we often hear as an argument from government parties on why not to accept some of these changes in raising the contribution to care, is that they are not included in the next year's budget. That's a very popular argument. So I will draw your attention once again to my amendment to the budget that we discussed this week, which I presented at second reading, which is precisely the contribution to care, and which thinks about having the means for this increase for next year, namely less than CZK 6 billion. And it is precisely when the budget is being discussed that amendment can be supported. So far, this argument is falling, and this argument becomes then odd. As regards procedure and assignment, or the change requested by Mr Sklenák, we will support it for TOP 09. We would very much hate to see Mrs Dražilová's amendment being supported, which basically reduces the contribution to care and does not seem to us to support other proposals, so on the contrary, we would like to support all the proposals that are trying to help our disabled citizens and which are intended to increase their contribution. I think that this is exactly what we should be thinking about at a time of economic growth, which has been happening here for several years in a row, at a time when the standard of living of our citizens is increasing, of wage and other things, so that we should think about these very fellow citizens much more than to introduce some nonsense free of charge or with a significant discount. So I consider this to be a subject that we should take very seriously, very seriously, and we should pay particular attention to it with dignity and support for our fellow citizens who need it most, because they have very little chance of helping themselves. That, I think, is all on my part on this bill. Thank you for your attention and for your support for the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u19	Thank you, Madame. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. And let me read one more apology. He apologizes to Mrs Pavla Golasowská from 13.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u20	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to apologise to my fellow Member, Mr Bauer, Vice-President of the Social Committee, who is on duty with the House delegation as an observer of the OSCE, an election observer in Armenia. I have exercised this right of priority at the moment when the Members and those Members who proposed the amendment applied their speech, and I will actually take the role of representing Mr Bauer. I apologize to those I have preceded, but they will not defend their amendment, I presume. I would like to start with this, and it does not happen often that I agree with the part of the Minister's speech, especially the part where she said that care in the third and fourth levels is work 24 hours a day seven days a week. And I want to say that it is a service not only to those who provide this care at home or in some facilities, that it is not only a service to specific citizens, but also to the community and the state as a whole. And we should be aware of that. At the same time, I do not agree with the speech of some of my predecessors, who say that the best is the proposal of my honourable colleague, Mr Sklenák. As a political realist, I would say he has the best chance of accepting. That doesn't mean he's the best. The best is Mr Bauer's amendment and I will try to explain why. Why he's the best. And I will try to convince you, even if the effort may be in vain, to support it as well. [[Noise in the hall.]] Firstly, the amendment also increases the contribution to third-level care. It is not the only amendment that increases the third-level care allowance, but it is the only one that increases it as well as the fourth-degree care allowance. And since I know that not all of you are in detail about social policy, let's try to figure out what the difference in the third and fourth degree care allowance is. We have ten basic needs in life - and I really beg you to listen to me. I'm gonna read them now, and then I'm gonna tell you what numbers this guy can't handle on his own, so you can see how thin the line is between caring in third and fourth degrees. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] The ten basic needs of life that are assessed at the time of the decision on which grade will be awarded are these. Mobility, orientation, communication, eating, dressing and shoeing, physical hygiene, performance of physiological needs, health care, personal activities, household care. I know that every healthy person feels normal, that these are simple things. Far from it. And now in that third degree in children and adolescents under the age of 18, there are those who are unable to cope with six or seven of these basic needs of life, and in the fourth stage eight or nine. This means a child who can't handle seven of these ten basic needs of life is granted a allowance,, in the third degree, and eight, if he can't handle eight, in the fourth degree. [[unintelligible]] The border is extremely small and very often depends on a specific assessment of a particular case. And I don't want to talk about medical evaluation issues today. For adults over 18 years of age, the third degree is granted to those who are not able to handle seven or eight, and in the fourth stage nine or ten. This means the difference between the third and fourth degrees can be, for example, whether someone is able to assess whether or not someone is capable of developing personal activities or able to communicate, yes or no. This may be the decisive criterion between the third and fourth degrees. That is why I think it is fair and socially fair to increase the contribution in third and fourth levels by the same amount. I therefore believe that the proposal put forward by colleague Bauer is better. For those who don't think so, I'd like to hear a reason why it isn't. Why do they think that those who care for someone who has a third degree should get less, for example by two thousand or nothing, by zero than those who care for someone in the fourth degree of addiction? We don't see the difference there, and we think it is, and I repeat that word, because in the long run, I claim that the social approach is a high-right conservative theme, unlike the socialist approach, which is a high-left topic, that the increase in contributions should be the same. [[10.00 hours]] At the same time, Mr Bauer's amendment does not distinguish where the care is provided. Whether it is in the home environment or in the social services or in other facilities such as home, hospice care and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u21	I would ask the Members to bring their discussion, I suppose, perhaps even a hunch about what, into the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u22	I really consider this an extremely serious issue and thank the President for arranging for me in the Chamber of Deputies. I was either talking about it in the first or second reading, how administratively difficult it is, if that person spends part of his time in his natural home environment and spends part of his time in some kind of residential service, I will not burden you with calculating denins today, and how difficult it is. We propose that the contribution be increased to all regardless of where the care is provided. Again, it seems socially fair and administratively very simple. I think we have to tell each other how many people the care allowance relates to what the costs are. And we believe that the cost of the care allowance is well-invested public money, because especially when care takes place in a natural home environment, it is simply more advantageous and cheaper for the state. Care allowance for persons under the age of 18 at the first stage of 12 200, I will round it up, in the second stage about 8.5 thousand, in the third stage of 5.5 thousand. and in the fourth grade, 4,700. If we're talking about increasing the care allowance for children under the age of 18, the total number is 10 thousand. At this point, I refuse to listen to arguments about budgetary responsibility and that there is no money in the budget. Ten thousand children and adolescents under the age of 18 receive a third or fourth degree care allowance, and I think we should pick it up to all of them equally regardless of whether it's the third or the fourth, and whether it's at home or, for example, in a children's home. The numbers are different for people over 18 years of age. In the first stage, it's about 92 thousand, in the second stage 105 thousand, in the third stage 77.5 thousand. and 44,000 in the fourth grade. Approximately. Here, the hardest cases have already crossed the line of nearly 120,000 fellow citizens over the age of 18 who need a care allowance. It is a lot, but it is still not such a large group of citizens that could increase budget costs in some more fundamental way. The total cost of the present amount of the contribution is approximately 24.3 billion. Let's think about the draft state budget, 1,500 billion. is the annual budget expenditure plus 24.3 billion. care allowance. If we were to increase this, according to Mr Bauer's proposal and the citizens' democrats, we had reached a sum of 9.5 billion. per year. We believe that the amount may not be final, because, in particular, if you support the proposal that the care allowance will be increased for residential facilities, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs can logically reduce the contribution to social services if we increase the allowance for care to those accommodation facilities. I'm not saying it's in its entirety, but in part, I'm sure it is. So then we figured it would be about 7.5 billion. total costs. Now I'm going to try to refute some of the arguments that undoubtedly have been raised in the debates to date and which will be heard. First, budget. That's what I said, seven billion. really good social policy is money invested properly. We showed 40 billion on Wednesday. savings. Overall, the state will have a plus 150 billion next year. income. And one of you will say with a serious face that of the 150 billion. is not found 7.5 billion. for those who need help the most and who cannot help themselves? 150 billion. - 7.5 billion. less than 5% of the increased revenue, the second thing increased year on year, and I admit that we could have been more skilled, is that we have given effect since 1 July 2019. And it may be argued that other amendments in the fourth stage have given effect since 1 January. Therefore, in the course of the procedure, I will suggest that our points be voted separately. If efficiency passes from 1 January 2019, it will not bother us at all, but we will welcome it with joy and understanding. On the argument that the money isn't in the budget, well it isn't, and it can't be. Let us face it and remember that the draft state budget is being drawn up and must be drawn up in accordance with the applicable legislation, so say in the draft law, which has not yet been approved, that money is not allocated in the budget and thus arguing is an incorrect procedure. Legitimately, the money can't be written in the draft state budget, because the law doesn't apply yet. And I don't know any other argument. The budget, which I believe, has been sufficiently disproved, and the effectiveness since 1 July, we are ready to vote on effectiveness as from 1 January, as it contains various amendments. The procedure. I think that we should not vote or determine the procedure according to what suits, for example, the largest government party, or the proposal that has the greatest chance of accepting. If, and we believe, and many of us declare that we are prepared to support others if our particular amendment fails. I would like to call on us to vote logically, that is, according to the increase in the contribution from the highest increase to the smallest. This means that those who support the highest can support the second highest by voting if they fail. If the second highest does not pass, those who supported the second highest can support the third highest by voting. Today, the procedure is designed to select one proposal, which is somewhere, I would say, in the second half of the increase, and when it passes, the others are unvoted. And each of the Members can then answer the question of why you have not supported, for example, Mr Bauer's proposal, a simple answer: because it has not been voted on. Then let's not have such simple answers. If a proposal has majority support, it will pass and it does not matter whether it will be voted on first or second. If Mr Sklenák's proposal is put to a second vote because he has the second highest increase, a very similar amendment by Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, if you look at the above and not the other points, then the majority will also be in the second vote if it is not found in the first. I have made such a small table, I will try to find it, and there I would expect and I would ask the rapporteur why it is not so, when I wrote down how much individual amendments increase the contribution in third degree and fourth degree, and whether they increase the contribution for care in the natural environment or even in residential services. I'll tell you the chart, and I think we should vote like this. Our amendment increases the care allowance in third and fourth levels by 6,000 regardless of where the care is provided. The second proposal is the proposal by Mr Sklenák, who increases the contribution for care in the natural environment, the domestic environment in the third stage by 4,000 and 6,000 in the fourth stage. That is, they copy, Mr Bauer's proposal and Mr Sklenák's in fourth degree, copy the Senate's proposal and actually extend it, but for the care provided in residential services, children's homes, and similarly, the increase is zero for Mr Sklenák. [[10.10 hours]] Then Mr Třešňák's amendment. If I counted correctly, he proposes 6,000 in the third and fourth stages and in the third stages of addiction, in the fourth degree of dependence he proposes to increase the allowance for care in residential facilities, in children's homes and similar by CZK 1,100. Then Mrs Dražilová's proposal, which proposes to increase her third-degree contribution by 4,000 for home care - but beware! It is the first and only amendment that reduces the contribution to care for the most difficult cases. I'd like to hear the answer to why. Why is this the only amendment? What are the reasons why the Senate proposal is being modified and the proposal is 4,000 in the fourth degree, not 6,000? Then perhaps Mrs Richterová's proposal would be. And Mrs Pekarová Adamová's proposal is actually the only one that brings about systemic change. I just want to say that I believe that if any of these amendments D, E, F, B, C, G and H passes, where there are specific figures, we can vote on the part of Mrs Pekarová's amendment Adamová, which concerns the contribution at first and second steps. This is the only amendment relating to the contribution at first and second steps. And that's it, actually. Either we show a conservative social approach, we add to those who need it the most, we add to them no matter where the care is provided, which reduces the administrative burden, or we cover ourselves with the budgetary reasons, the reasons with effect, the fact that we support one type of care, the other does not. I would also like to ask, Mr President, after the general debate on the 25-minute break at our club's meeting, so that we can discuss the voting procedure for each amendment. But I can already say that our approach is not that either our amendment will pass or not. Indeed, when we talk about the procedure, I propose the logical procedure and I believe that you will all support it, because there is no reason for us not to vote from the highest increase to the smallest. And he who has the greatest support or majority support will certainly pass, whether we vote on him as the first or the fifth. But what makes it difficult for us to say, and it must be said, makes it harder for us to answer: well, I did not support it, because there was no vote on Mr Bauer's proposal or Mr Sklenák's proposal. After all, the proposal for a change to the procedure brought in by Mr Sklenák does not in any way increase the number of Members who support it. Only Mr Sklenák fears that he could go through another proposal, worse from his point of view, that is a legitimate point of view, and he would not actually be voted on anymore. So I understand. If Mr Sklenák had given the first vote on Mr Bauer's letter D and Mr Sklenák's second vote on Mr Bauer's letter, we would certainly have no problem supporting it. However, there is a proposal to change the procedure. If it fails, we will support the change in the procedure proposed by Mr Sklenák that it will not be 100% logical, but let's say 90 percent logical that the others will already be ranked according to the size of the increase in the contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u23	Thank you. After the debate, 25 minutes? [[Yes.]] I picked it up pretty good. Thank you. I have two factual points here. First of all, with a factual remark, Mr Kaňkovský. After that, Mr Zaorálek will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u24	Good morning again. I would only actually respond by means of you to my esteemed colleague Zbyněk Stanjura. I think a politician is supposed to be able to acknowledge the truth, he's supposed to be able to admit the error. So I'll admit my mistake. In my speech, I really referred to Mr Sklenák's amendment as the best. Then I also said that he is the one who, in my opinion, has the best chance of passing. However, I will say to my colleague Stanjur that, indeed, if we were to discuss what would bring the greatest benefit to those who have the most severe disability, i.e. the recipients of the third and fourth grade care allowance, the best proposal by my colleague Stanjura is that he is dealing with the situation of clients of residential services. But a politician should be able to criticize, too, and now I'm gonna do it with a lot of class. In the list of Stanjura's amendments, as should logically be going after each other, my colleague forgot, and I know that it was not an evil will, to the H7 to H9 amendment, which I lectured, and that is an increase of CZK 4,000 in the third degree, which is the same as my social democracy, with the difference that there is no will to postpone from 1. 7. but it would be with the effect of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u25	Thank you for keeping time. Another factual point - Mr Zaorálek, then Mr Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u26	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Although I am not so involved in social thesis, I was quite approached by Mr Stanjura when he asked me to respond to the conservative social approach of the Civil Democratic Party. Well, that interests me, because I didn't know until then that there was someone here who was taking things so seriously. And I just wanted to see how it was. The proposal that Mr Stanjura here explained, the ten criteria for assessing care, which I would like to remind the House that it was created in 2006. In 2006, it was the government of Jiří Paroubek, which actually introduced this new concept. And I suspect that it was actually introduced from about 2007 onwards. I just want to remind the House that in all that time, the governments were here, I suspect, to Mr Topolánek, Nečas and so on. But this new approach, introduced in 2006, was only approved in 2015 or 2016 under the rule of Bohuslav Sobotka. So my question to Stanjuru is, where he slept the conservative social approach of the Civil Democratic Party all this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u27	Thank you. I might even ask you to address a colleague through me on such questions. But it's nothing serious. A point of fact - Mr. Válek. Then President Stanjura wants to respond. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to thank Mr Stanjura very much for the speech that we started to rationally discuss variations, facts and data. I was a little frightened by the speech of my previous speaker, who had moved away from it. I think that what has ever been, what has been done is completely pointless to talk at this stage because we are talking about people who need help who need support. And we're talking about which of these options is the most advantageous for them. And we are discussing how to prevent similar discussions in the future. Let's talk about this seriously and rationally. And that speech by Mr President Stanjura from this point of view was extremely important to me, because we are talking about what is optimal from a higher moral principle, and that is certainly what Mr Stanjura said through the President. I support this very much here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u29	Thank you. Now, therefore, Mr Stanjura will respond to the previous speakers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u30	I really don't mind Mr Zaorálek turning to me directly, I take it completely fine, we're from one electoral region, we've known each other for years. The answer is simple. You actually answered your own question, Mr President. I don't want to have a debate in the past years, but I can respond very quickly. I've never slept. But by not focusing on social services and social policy, major European projects were also running at the time, bringing significant money to those providers and to the care, first of all. Second, look at the average wage, and compare it. This is important, if we are discussing valorisation, if we do not have an automated system proposed by Mrs Pekarová or which may be prepared by the Ministry, it is very important whether we are discussing this during the recession or in the boom. And I said that we have plus 150 billion extra annual income, that the difference, and I'm willing to say it, if we want the debate between socialist and socialist, I can see it. [[10.20 hours]] I know that the left would like to tell the voters that there is an equalizer, that socialist equals socialist. The difference in socially conservative approach is that we help the needy. Those who can't help themselves. And the socialist one, that I'm doing it without a property test. I'm giving everybody away. Whether they need it or not. Regardless of whether social benefits are abused or not. That's the difference between socialist and socialist. But I don't want to burden this debate, very important, with this discussion. Let's take it somewhere else, lead it to the budget next week at third reading, and there are proposals falling, and we can tell each other. But let's not forget the individual projects. Those who have devoted themselves to social policy know very well when we are talking about individual projects in the programming period 2007 to 2013.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u31	Thank you. And with a point of fact, Mr Zaorálek will still respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u32	Yes, thank you, Mr Stanjur, for the explanation. But just as I've heard and understood it, in that case, when it's handing out to everyone, the socialist way, then I see your proposal today as socialist. Otherwise, I would like to say that what the previous speaker said, as was very important, what Mr Stanjura said may have been very significant. For me, I now consider the more substantial real proposal made by Mr. Roman Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u33	Thank you, and President Stanjura will still respond with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u34	Czech is a really nice language, so I'll be more specific. To all who need it. Whereas the socialists say to everyone, even those who don't need it. So consider - 7.5 billion for those who really need it. Or is there someone here who thinks that those who have such a hard disability who can't handle six, seven, eight or nine of those basic needs of life don't need that? Anybody here? I'm sure neither of them are here! Then we don't have to take our word for it. But for example, free lunches for everyone, even for the rich families, that's exactly the case. It's not free lunches for those who need it, and it can solve the community, the school, we have other programs for it. But free lunches to everyone without a property test, it's a socialist case! If you promote free lunches to those who need it, we agree on that. Free lunches are typical socialist measures. But I wouldn't want to have a free lunch debate. Just an example for Mr Zaorálek. He's acting like he doesn't understand me, but he's intelligent, he understands me. He's just pretending he doesn't understand me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u35	Thank you and the factual remarks are not yet completely over. With Mrs Valachová's factual remark, then Mrs Gajdůšková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u36	A factual comment on Mr Stanjur: In the case of school lunches, we will soon be discussing our parliamentary proposal, so it will be time for that. And definitely a recommendation: Buy a ticket, if any. by some other means of transport to the UK, visit the Conservative Party and look at a few suggestions from the workshop of an old known communist - if you didn't know, and his name is David Cameron.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u37	Thank you for the brief factual remark. Now, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, Mr Dolínek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, Honored House, only quickly. It is, of course, a question of what has been said about the need, so who will determine the need. And I'm sure we don't agree on that. We think most people in this country are needed. And if we're talking about children, whatever it takes to help children. That's one thing. And the second thing in relation to those social housing services and raising contributions in this area as well. Yes, in social services we need to raise money primarily to employees of these services. That's right. But in relation to their clients, it's a little different. I mean, that's where these people get more services by means of the fact that they even exist. That's where the subsidies go. Those people aren't the same as those who are at home who are actually only getting the post we're talking about today. I am convinced that Mr Sklenák's proposal is a good one, even with the time distinction. And I, while I have another proposal, will support Mr Sklenák's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u39	Thank you. With the replacement card number 11, Mr Onderka votes. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Dolínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak to Mr Stanjur through the President. You know, there are things I understand that everyone can't watch. But in Prague, for example, those needy lunches have been given free for the last three years. They get them without problems and it turns out that this is such a good element that we want to try to make just the first degree, children who need to have the best habits to get them, often from families, I appreciate that, but unfortunately there are children who do not have from their families, so that the habits help them get school. And that's where we aim and say, let's try and give lunch to everyone. But I'm saying it was based on the fact that the practice showed those in need that it was very beneficial for the whole system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u41	Thank you and two more factual points. Good morning, honourable Members. We continue with Mr Jan Skopeček's factual remark, Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be prepared. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond through the President to Mrs Valachová, who is teaching us here from right-wing policy. David Cameron introduced free lunches because he was in a coalition with progressive liberals, with whom Mrs Valachová would probably understand more than her MP. On the other hand, the socialists always pick out the grains. I want to ask Mrs. Valachová if she wants to inspire the British school system, which is very elitist and where rich parents already pay tuition fees in secondary schools. So if she wants to introduce the British school system, I'd really like to ask her, or she's just picking up the crumbs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Vojtěch Munzar's point of view. And I have four more factual points. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u44	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to respond to the previous speaker, Mr. Dolínek, by your means, who said here: Let's give the lunches to everyone! Well, it's a nice handout from a stranger. That's the socialist approach. They're not free lunches! Nothing's free! It's a transfer of payment from parents to taxpayers. So let's have a debate, those who need it, those families where they are in financial trouble, how to help these people. But paying for free lunches to all, even those families who don't need it, seems very inefficient to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Aleš Juchelka, with a point of fact. Mr Patrik Nacher and then Mr Jan Čižinský will be ready. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have resigned from the debate because I will probably say all this in a factual note, because my colleague Stanjura, through the President, inspired me to do so. It's a little different for those traveling services, and for those who are caring at home. We here on the balcony have a lot of people at home taking care of their children in third or fourth degree disability, and they deserve any increase at the moment, of course. And I'd really like to thank them, because if he's 27 hours old, they'll take care of 27 hours. And when I just realize from the financial point of view that we have such a disabled child at home, what awaits these families and parents for the surcharges on the lifting system, wheelchairs, bathbeds, bathroom chairs, on other x things that this person must have to have to live with dignity, I think the increase is actually appropriate at this point for those who are caring for the disabled at home. And the residential services, as my colleague Kaňkovský said, will, of course, still be addressed in the future. [[10.30 hours]] In addition to thanking them, of course, I would like to appeal to the MPSV to actually make a system of valorization at III., IV., II. Even the first degree of disability, so that we don't have to meet here really undignifiedly every time, and this is how we politically argue about who and how we're gonna add to it, and we're even gonna put a discussion of lunches into it. And, of course, I beg you, too, because those families won't keep the money holed up in their pillow somewhere, but they need to spend it on social services, so I'd like to appeal to them and the MPSV for social services such as respect and assistance services. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u47	Thank you. I'm tolerance alone. Mr Patrik Nacher, a colleague of Čižinský, then Mr Bělobrádek, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u48	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't originally want to respond, but what my colleague Stanjura said... You know me, I'm a liberal-minded person, but here we have to have some historical context. Care allowance shall be paid from 1. 1. 2007, that means Mirek Topolánek, Petr Nečas, Prime Minister Fischer, and then Prime Minister Sobotka. For the first time, it was only rated by 10 % in 2016, i.e. during the previous reign, when Andrej Babiše was the Minister of Finance and Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. And I would remind you here that even, if I remember correctly, under previous governments since 2007, the first-degree contribution has even decreased. That means that when you had the opportunity, you didn't increase it, even at a certain degree, you lowered it. Now, of course, with Secretary of Finance Schillerová, who has to be responsible for this, these proposals fly here and there. Of course, I support this, but it needs to be balanced and it needs to be consistent at the time. So I'd just like to remind you of this. There were times when the contribution even went down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u49	Thank you, Mr Patrik Nacher, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Jan Čižinský, Mr Bělobrádek will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u50	Thank you for the floor. I agree that the care allowance is completely different from lunch. There's no comparison. I would like to support President Stanjura's view of the course of the vote in order to actually vote from the highest possible support to the lowest proposed. About the lunches, though. Lunches were created in Prague because there were children who didn't have lunch in the classrooms, and teachers were on them, which is definitely not okay. That's why there was an account where lunches were paid to those kids that class teachers and directors knew they really didn't have for lunches. What is right is to expand the criteria, because at present only families who are in material need and the others - that is needed in urban areas - are taking advantage of it. For example, my district of Prague 7, which really applies to everyone whose class teachers say yes, the child simply needs help, even though he is not in material distress. So that's how it needs to be expanded, but it doesn't mean that it's supposed to be paid across the board.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, also with a point of fact, and now it is Mrs Aulická with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to say that some things have been said here. I don't think it has any budgetary significance or that it's not meant to be taken into account. Of course, it also has economic implications, because the care that is paid or supported directly by individual clients is significantly cheaper than any institutional care. That's what needs to be emphasized here. And the other thing. Of course, such services need to be supported. I have to say that I am personally, because Grandma and Grandpa have lived to see us at home, changed their grandmother, and I am convinced that this is also the best educational method. It is a question of family cohesion and also of realizing what life is and what it includes. So it is also necessary to encourage people, when possible only a little bit, to be encouraged to take care of their loved ones in their home environment, because even most people wish to die at home, not at some institution, at some eldéence. And the last thing I want to say about it - it is very important that such care is really very educational. That needs to be emphasized.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u53	I thank Mr Pavel Bělobrádek and we will get to the rankings. Now, Mrs Hana Aulická and Mrs Radka Maxová will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also give my opinion on the KSČM club, and I am glad that I have been there. I was worried we'd have a discussion in actual applications in at least 12 hours. Anyway, I have to respond a little bit here to the previous discussion that took place here. I would very much hate to see us here again comparing home care with institutional care, because these are economic indicators that simply cannot be compared. And don't think that those people who are in home care don't take advantage of other care, such as social or health care, which, of course, is paid for from other parts of either the state budget or, of course, through the ministries that fall there. This means that these are completely pointless indicators, regardless of the fact that if there is residential care, there are, of course, other aspects that affect the amount and, of course, the quality. For us, I openly say that it bothers us very much, and we've been pointing this out for a long time, and I'm from the Ústí Region, so we could talk about it, that we have absolutely no way of checking the home care billing. I do not think that the authorities of work that do this do not do it, but their capacity really is not enough, and actually supervision of the use of care contributions in real life is almost none, although of course they are trying to do so. I'm not saying he's being abused across the board, no way, but I don't think the way he's performing and he has to actually prove that he's staying--
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u55	Madam, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. I understand that the subject is a little hot, but if you're discussing something else, please, in the lobby, and let everyone who performs speak in peace if the word has been given to him. Others really have discussions in the foyer. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Anyway, I would just like to stress again that in the care of a resident, they really have to account for every crown they accept for the care of a client or patient, and they have to prove how it was billed, what was bought for it and how it was used. We don't have that in home care. It's actually a large amount of care allowance, and you, colleagues, actually said that it's the only income at the time, if the person is sick or handicapped at home, so it's actually almost the only income of the family or part of the family that takes care of him at home, which I don't think is actually a system, and it should not only be considered whether the MPSV is really the only contribution to caring for such a severely ill or handicapped person, and that we really should deal with the situation a little differently. Mr Stanjura, by your means, Mr President, was right that we are actually talking about inequality here, and therefore also Mr Bauer made his proposal to increase his contribution to care not only in domestic care but also in residential care. We pointed it out from the beginning and talked about the fact that when the Senate came up with this proposal only in the fourth degree, in domestic care, it came to us more or less, and now I don't mean it badly, but very populist, because it really aimed at the most needy. At the same time, however, we said that this is a nonsystemic solution and that the care allowance should be dealt with in a really complex way, and I must agree, or we liked the proposal made by Mrs Adamová Pekarová, although we said that we would be staying with her, because we would also imagine the valorisation a little differently, and more or less the proposal for valorisation came a little unsystemic giving in this proposal and we would like the Ministry itself to prepare it further with the Ministry of Finance. [[10.40 hours]] Of course, I would like to mention maybe two more numbers or three, four numbers that I think you should be aware of. In 2017, he made a care allowance of over 25 billion. More than 26 billion are now expected at the end of 2018, and the plan for 2019 without this increase, which is actually expected if it were valid from the whole year, as much as 5 billion, is expected to be nearly 27 billion. At the same time, however, I must stress that social services are given only if it passes, so we have some 16 billion announced, but the real need that these regions have actually requested is about 20 billion, and they were promised a meeting of around 17 billion. That means just to make you realize that the money is still growing, because compared to 2018, when we were arguing here, if we were going to raise to those salaries, the original proposal was 11.5 billion, and then we managed to put in that 3.3 billion to raise those wages. This means that the finances are constantly growing, and so we stress that it is really necessary to deal with these things systemically and not just with any proposals from the Senate or the MPs, because it is probably now going to pass through a proposal that will only be added to the home care, as all the representatives have announced. And I have to say that we really don't like the inequality, because even the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which is preparing the social services amendment, where there will be a change in the funding of social services, so if it goes through, if it gets ready and if the timetable goes through, it's not until 2021. It brings it to us, and we are very concerned about it, especially in palliative care, because if the care allowance goes up to 19,200, and here I could say that no one answered me who actually invented the raise on the 6,000 and how it got there. Because if you recall, 19 200 was in the last amendment to the Social Services Act, which fell under the table in the last parliamentary term, and more or less the senators just took over, but no one justified the increase of CZK 6,000. But de facto, all the proposals, in addition to that, I mean the YES proposal, were actually sticking to this upper limit. But no one has an increase to justify why it happened. This means that it might be good not only to calculate the optimal valorization of the time, etc., but specifically, why the amount increases by the 6,000 crowns. I'm not saying it's a lot, I'm not saying it's not enough. Anyway, it might be good to go back to the beginning, because I really, and I'm stressing it, I'm missing the systemicity. I'm glad you've stressed the history here, that really ten years or nine years haven't been increased by that... actually at every level of the care allowance, and that brings great problems to the house people. I guess we don't have to tell each other that. But I must say that we, as the KSČM, will support Mr Sklenák's amendment. And I think even the increase that's there, so at this point, it's probably optimal. Anyway, I would like to appeal that we do not like non-systemic proposals that are really starting to fly in the Chamber of Deputies and that are only watching the populism of each party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Hana Aulická. I'm gonna ask my colleague Maxová to be patient because I have two factual points. First Vice-President Pikal and then colleague Aleš Juchelka. Mr Vice-President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u58	Hello. I apologize for entering into this already professional debate with some proposal that I will not respond to the previous speaker, but it is a procedural proposal, i.e. a factual remark. I noted in the debate that there are many proposals that differ only in time or amount of money from each other, so I would like to draw attention to § 72 para. If more than one proposal is submitted for adjusting the same matter only in terms of quantity, time, person or place, the number of Members supporting the individual proposals shall be found first and then voted on in order of the number of supporting proposals. I know I'm going to mess with the rapporteur's head. However, given that a break has been announced, I believe that there will be room to prepare the vote so that we can actually vote on all the proposals, not just those that will be prepared first from a procedural call. So I'd like to apply this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u59	Yes, thank you. This is a procedural proposal that we will be dealing with when we vote on the specific amendment, so that it is aligned under the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure Act. Now, therefore, Mr Aleš Juchelka's factual comment, Roman Sklenák will also be prepared for a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u60	Thank you very much. I would just like to respond a little to my previous speaker, Mrs Aulická, through you, Mr President, about the control. Because I can't imagine a family that cares for the fourth or third degree of disability, e.g. with his child or senior, it doesn't matter, he's going to report to every crown and penny as well as to the residential services for which he spends the care allowance. That's completely unrealistic. Everyone with a third and fourth degree of disability goes to a doctor. He's checking the patient's condition. If, in addition to the care allowance, a family asks for a lifting system, a platform, a staircase, a bathbed, a bathing chair, a bathroom reconstruction, etc., there is always a social worker who checks this investment right here. So let's not say that all those or some of them who receive a care allowance are the ones who just somehow make money off of it. I don't think so. If we know someone, let's definitely talk about it specifically, but it's not a systemic problem. And I would hate for us to crash the privacy of individual families just because they sacrificed, sacrifice their professional personal life to care for their loved ones in their home and family environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u61	Thank you, Mr Aleš Juchelek, for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Roman Sklenák and Mrs Maxová will be next. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u62	Thank you for the floor. I volunteered for Vice-President Pikal's performance. I believe that in this case we cannot proceed as he has mentioned. The Rules of Procedure respond if only the amount is changed and otherwise the whole text of the amendments is the same. But if you look at the amendments, and you haven't looked at them, he's actually written in a completely different way, and this procedure, I'm convinced, we can't apply it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u63	Thank you for your opinion on this matter. And now, Mrs. Radka Maxová. My colleague Dražilová will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I don't know what I want to say yet, because I'm a little sad about the whole debate. I'll speak in two levels. Speak as chairman of the Committee on Social Policy, and how we felt about it on our committee. I must say that the words of the system, the words of money, fell on our committee, too, and it was not quite easy to discuss, because we also interrupted this point because there was no agreement on how we would actually stand up to the amendments, which were already many at the time. Not all were well written, not all could be agreed. We thought that we would make a political agreement on one text of the amendment across the political spectrum, as has already been mentioned today, but unfortunately this did not happen. And now I see all of this as a sort of, pardon me, a race to where and more. I must say that this amendment is about money. But not about the money of the state budget, although we have also dealt with this very much and we have been communicating with our Minister Schillerová, who has worked hard to find funding for such a need. But it's about money to these people. Our citizens, people with disabilities. And above all, those who take care of them. There wasn't much talk of those here today. [[10.50 hours]] Here I'll mention the word system again. Because that is what we should focus on in the amendment to the Social Services Act, so that these persons who take care of people who receive a third-level allowance in the fourth degree, so that they do not find themselves on the benefits of material emergency, so that they do not have low pensions, so that they do not end up in executions, so that they can take loans for housing, so that they live with dignity. So I hereby appeal to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs not only to amend the Social Services Act, but also to bring together the change that will ensure our caring persons. The medical evaluation service has already been mentioned twice. Mr Stanjura mentioned ten criteria. This too falls on the Committee on Social Policy. It's not well set, it's not a well-functioning medical assessment service. The whole system of granting contributions is not working well. He's long, he fits in with several authorities, people wait ten, twelve months either to grant a care allowance, in a worse case to appeal. And I believe that not only do we have many emails of life stories coming from the Social Committee. This week we just received an e-mail from the teacher's daughter who had to stay on disability based on the vascular event. That's where it shows exactly how this system works. It doesn't work well. And they are not only older disabled pensioners, but they are also young disabled pensioners who are growing in the Czech Republic and who will then really solve their existential problems when their loved ones who take care of them leave. And as I feel here, the entire House agrees on the need to target domestic, outpatient and field care, strengthen palliative, strengthen hospice care. I know it's not easy for us to change that. Let us hope that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will come soon with a systemic change. I think that specifically from the social committee's soil there are concrete ideas on how to change this not only during this term of office, when we have already had about twice or three times the topic of medical assessment service, granting a contribution to care, but above all from the previous term of office. I want to thank all those caring because I have a lot of people around me who have experience with the system. I'm about to enter the system myself because I'm gonna try to provide care for my mom. I'm not saying I'm looking forward to it because I know what's waiting for me, but I'm curious about how our system will work. And I wish a lot of patience to all those who experience unpleasant situations with this system so that they do not have to sell their properties, their apartments, so that they do not have to move, so that they have a dignified life. That is why we, as ANO, have come up with a compromise proposal by Mrs Lenka Dražilová, who unfortunately receives unpleasant e-mails. But there was a fear that nothing would pass on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, if, of course, Lenka Dražilová's amendment does not pass, we, as the YES movement, will be leaning towards another version that decomposes the effectiveness of the third and fourth levels. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support, for your interest in this issue. And I believe that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, as it intends, will really focus on this issue as soon as possible on the accompanying resolution is adopted. Because the number of people disabled not only physically, but also mentally will not be smaller in our Republic than it is now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u65	Thank you, Mrs Radka Maxová. Now Mr Jaroslav Foldyna's factual comment and then Mrs Maláčová's priority right. Ambassador, hold on a second. I state the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 11 to 13 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Marian Bojko apologizes and Mr Holomčík apologises from 11 to 12 o'clock. Now, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor to a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My colleagues, I have listened to the lovely speech of my colleague. Look, what we've been discussing here for two hours. We are discussing the fact that we want to add money to Czech disabled citizens, people who live almost the worst of us. I am from the Ústí Region, from northern Bohemia, where the region is not rich at all nowadays. The problems, the accumulation of the problem, it's horrible. We were the third richest region 20 years ago, and today we are at the end in terms of the structure of the rich and the poor. I meet these people today and every day. And we're still philosophing if it's not a lot, if it's not populism, if it's not just a gesture. Well, it's not a gesture, and it's not populism. Friends, and if it's a gesture and populism and it helps those people, I'll raise both my hands for it. I don't want to make any compromise proposals. What do you want to be compromise on? That we can't help those people who are waiting for the money? The Minister is presenting a proposal that partially addresses the complex problem. Partly solves, but solves. Please don't be petty about one thing. The Czech Republic has never been as rich as it is today. Let's not send money to waste, let's give money to things that are important. I don't really care about democracy in the Congo, I don't care how homosexual marches are financed in Prague, I care about how these people live. And there's something we can do for them. And that's why it's totally undignified for me to watch the discussion here, how we cry, that there's no money, and that she's gonna join somebody. Well, he'll join the people who need it. And they're gonna add the money that's in here. Just please don't give away the money for the bullshit - I'm sorry if I'm using such an indecent word in this ingenious grémium, because it's really hard to listen to. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u67	Your time for a point of fact is over. Now... Madame Maláčová, Madam Secretary, wait a bit longer. There is a factual remark from Mr Jiří Kobza. And, of course, your priority right, right after the actual notes, I'll give you my word. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the discussion under way, and I would like to say that the source of funding for care is the subject of our Amendment 1836, which we have tabled and which I have presented when we propose to move some of the funds from the chapter to development aid, because I think that the support of Bosnian milkers or Georgian beekeepers is not as important as the assistance of our own disabled. And I think we've proposed a pretty reasonable amount. So I hope that all colleagues who are speaking and debating here will support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a factual remark to Mr Kobza. Now, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, also with a factual remark. Madam Secretary is still ready. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think this debate may be important, but we are in principle in agreement here. What's important here is also to make it clear that over the last 20 years, support for this concern for its own family members, for the people we care about, has shifted significantly. When I think about how my mom was taking care of one completely lager, the other one that was very bad at it, how hard it was to get the equipment, the money wasn't really there, so it's a big shift. So I'd like to appreciate that. And if someone's bitching about how it used to be better, then in this case, it's definitely better. And basically, it needs to be said that we're pushing the appreciation of people who care about the infirm, farther away. [[11.00 hours]] I'm just gonna be happy if she passes the proposal that will be as advantageous for this group of residents as they deserve it. And just the way those who can behave, those who cannot repay them, those from whom they will not receive any more favors, testify to the nature of the people and the society. That is why we are voting here on a matter that is truly worthwhile.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u71	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with the priority right of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs. Jana Maláčová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u72	Thank you. I did not originally want to prolong the debate and react, but I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said here from the mouth of my previous speakers. I would like to point out that on September 21st, when the first reading of this senatorial proposal began here, I changed the government's original negative position, changing the position of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which was originally negative, to the positive. That's the first thing I'd like to remind you of. Second thing. It is constantly falling that we need to prepare a system proposal for this matter, to adjust the care allowance. Another thing that fell here, how the amounts that are being proposed were actually incurred, 6,000 at the fourth degree and 4,000 at the third degree. Well, that's the system design. We depend on how the cost of living has been increased in recent years, plus how the minimum wage has developed. We probably agree that care as such should be properly valued financially, which is why we came up with the amounts of CZK 6,000 and CZK 4,000. Even in the past, the Ministry has always participated or cooperated in the preparation of Senator Plaček's proposal, unfortunately the deceased today, and in the preparation of Mr Sklenák's opinions. It also happened here that we have inadequately funded social services. I think so. We will need to prepare a really systemic proposal that will follow demographic developments, but at the same time I would like to stress that we have prepared historically the highest social services budget. It's 15.5 billion. CZK and we still have an amendment for an increase of CZK 200 million. Crowns. Therefore, just really carefully with this, it is historically the highest amount. There have been two changes since 2007 when it was introduced, once again with regard to increasing the care allowance. In 2016 for Minister Marksová, the care allowance was increased by 10 percent, but not only was it not increased for Minister Drábek, but it was reduced at the first stage from 2,000 to 800 crowns, so the only person who systematically increased or tried to improve the status of carers and disabled were representatives of social democracy and our coalition partners. As far as systemic changes are concerned, as you can remove it, but I would like to repeat it from the legislative work plan, so we are currently preparing not only a big amendment to the Social Services Act at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but in the first quarter of next year we should sum up all the pro-family changes in the so-called family package, preparing a package of employment which should aim to ensure that all people who can work in the Czech Republic actually work and that work in the Czech Republic pays off. This means that there will be not only employment adjustments but also dose adjustments. We are, of course, preparing two partial proposals in the framework of pension reform, which means, in particular, increasing women's pensions and then leaving physically demanding professions. We're preparing a novel for medical review services. What I presented in the summer of this year is indeed a reversal of the personnel crisis. I very much hope that we can push this through in the Senate. Of course, as part of the so-called 15 measures to combat poverty, we are preparing a whole package to help socially excluded localities in particular. There will be a number of major amendments or reforms, as you would like to call it, but the details can then be discussed, for example, in the discussion of the legislative work plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u73	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Maláčová. My colleague Dražilová will have to wait, because I have four factual points here. First Mr Roman Sklenák - now five, then Mr Kaňkovský, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Radek Koten and Mrs Pekarová. That is the number of factual remarks so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u74	Thank you. I want to respond to the debate. Here, several times from several speakers, it was said that the proposals that are coming are populist. I can't believe it. Does anyone in this room really think that for people who are completely dependent, they can't handle nine out of ten basic needs of life, someone takes care of them 24 hours seven days a week, so that when the most generous proposal that is here, CZK 19,200 a month for families who live like this at home, it's populism? Seriously? And the amount. It was discussed in fact during the previous parliamentary term, as it is said here, as we have come up with this amount. This was part of a government amendment, which was in the commentary procedure, which was in the Chamber of Deputies, which was discussed in committees and various places, and the amount of 19 200 was discussed. By failing to discuss this press last time in the Chamber of Deputies, Senator Plaček and his colleagues basically raised the issue immediately after the elections and brought the proposal back to the Chamber of Deputies. But really please, you all know these stories, some of them have been mentioned, people are sending us emails, who you don't know, go out and look, but really don't talk about giving these families CZK 19,200 a month is populism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u75	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Mrs Aulická will prepare herself, also with a factual remark. And I've got another one. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u76	Good morning. I would have responded briefly to the speech of Minister Maláčová. I appreciate the fact that the Minister is applying to those tasks that I have not only mentioned here, but also to other speakers who are concerned with the necessary reforms on the part of the social services, as well as other issues that have been outlined here today. But at one point, I disagree with her. The Minister mentioned here that the highest social service budget for next year has historically been reached. That in itself is true, 15.5 billion. The crown is historically the highest amount. But she no longer spoke of the fact that both the demand of regions and the requirement of social service providers was much higher. And what happened in the meantime was that the originally planned 5% increase in wages came to 7 percent, for which I commend the government, that is obviously the right step in the personnel crisis in social services, but that is no longer what the social services budget is counting on. The budget also does not count on some individual projects from European funds ending, which are also not funded in the budget from national sources. And there's a third parameter or a third argument, and that's a reform of psychiatric care. It introduces some new types of social services and does not count on their financing of the social services budget. So the social services budget is 800 miles short. The crowns we're going to have to finance. And I firmly believe, since we are already talking about this today, that the amendments that are heading into this area will be supported, because if we want to ensure quality social care and the financing of some programmes, we simply cannot do so without the staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u77	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Madam Secretary, if you want a point of order, you'll be seventh. Now, Mrs Aulická. You have the floor, Madame, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u78	Thank you, Mr President. By your means, I must respond to Minister Maláčová. I'm so sorry you guys are talking about systemism. If the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs prepares an amendment to the Senate proposal, not to the government, but to the Senate, we cannot talk about systemicity for us. Don't be mad at me, we're talking about a lack of funding for social services again. We are constantly delaying the situation of socio-health boundaries. We want to, or your ministry wants to raise the existential and living minimum, and it has been agreed, and we require that a review of uninsurable benefits be done first, and that it is done again that it will first be added, and then we will find out what benefits are used or whether they are needed or unnecessary, unification etc. This is where non-conceptional changes are made, and it's just being played on populism to this extent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u79	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická. Now, Mr Radek Koten, Mrs Pekarová, will be prepared, both with a factual point. Madam Secretary Maláčová will be with her colleague Juchelka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to join my previous speakers here who said that this group of residents really has a big problem. And with these health disabilities, asking these people to prove to an office that they really don't have a hand or a leg, that sounds really undignified to me. And the amount that is being proposed here doesn't seem very big to me, because living with such a handicap, believe it or not, is really very sad and very difficult. So I would call on all the Members here to actually vote in favour of the version where it is raised to the 19,000 crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u81	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Now, please, with a factual remark from Mrs Aulická. [[Ambassador Aulická doesn't report.]] Well, it's not erased here. In that case, Mrs Pekarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u82	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there can be any better evidence that we need to bring exactly what I'm proposing into this system, namely a clear valorisation mechanism that will be freed from this kind of negotiation where all these discussions will fall out, the debates that we have been having here for a few hours, and it will be clear, predictable, and no one will interfere. So if you want us to avoid such debates in the future to avoid them, then there is no easier way than to support the amendment that I tabled, or if it does not happen, then insist that the Ministry itself come up with such a clear system change. And I think this debate is a wonderful way of showing how much it needs to be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u83	I thank and please Mr Juchelka with a point of fact, then the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u84	Just in a little bit. Thank you very much. This is probably where everyone responds to the system because it's not the system. Here was the amendment, I believe, to Mrs Pekarová, who somehow pushed it to a minimum wage, which is also not systemic, because it is also decided by politicians here. So we just need to find some kind of system. And even in the framework of the family package, because you've listed a lot of things here that are going on in the first quarter of next year, so I'd like to appeal to the fact that a lot of families who have some disability and care for a person close to their family are falling apart. That is why it is necessary to strengthen and also make the social services regionally accessible so that they can be helped and that there is simply no one left in the family as an individual alone to care for whom they care. So perhaps just an appeal so that, through the President, the Minister, you may also have this issue in this family package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u85	I, too, thank you, and now, please, with a final factual remark from the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u86	Thank you. Two more brief reactions. Just a reminder, or I would like to point out that in 2014, the social service budget was 7.7 billion. Crowns. As I mentioned just now, it will be 15,7 billion in 2019. Crowns. I think that the difference within five years by 8 billion, which is more than 50 percent of the original, or it's actually 100 percent of the original budget, more than 100 percent, so it's descriptive. Next thing. On my initiative, we proposed a revision of the Employment Operational Programme a few months ago. As you know - and this is a response to Mr Kaňkovský through Mr President - so in this operational programme, the funds that we still have are available to us to exhaust them all, and this has been mentioned for individual projects for social services, so we have initiated a review of the funds in favour of these individual projects of 1.5 billion. Crowns. Two weeks ago, the monitoring committee approved this amendment, and I firmly hope that this proposal will be consecrated by the European Commission in January, so that the regions can draw another 1.5 billion. more precisely on the area of social services. So this is all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u87	I, too, thank you, and Mr Kaňkovský also made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u88	Well, I'm serious about the secretary one more time. I don't want to argue with you, Madam Secretary. I also said here that it really is historically the highest allocation to social services, however, if we were talking about the argument, in this difference 2014, 2018, respectively. 2019, so you need to realize several levels of the problem. Over the five years, the scope of social services in individual regions has increased significantly, even due to the transformation of social services. Those transformation projects also bear increased costs, operating costs. That's part of the problem. Then we are also constantly fighting, and I have already stressed this in the state budget debate - if we want to keep good social services workers, we will have to continue to raise their wages, including by the system of over-the-counter components. Today, if they can choose on the labour market, yes, most of them are hearts and like to work in social services, but the reality of life is complicated. That is, if they get an offer from the private sector where they have over-the-counter folders or a contract salary, they're gonna go after the offer. And those individual projects, I appreciate that, if that's how you do it, it's okay. However, I stressed another thing here, and that is the reform of psychiatric care. This means that the underfinancing of social services is here, and I just ask that, within the framework of the government coalition, you proceed to this when approving the state budget and the social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u89	I, too, thank you for keeping time. At this point, I have no factual points, so we will continue with the general debate. Mrs. Dražilová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u90	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I would like, as rapporteur, to sign up for the legislative technical adaptations proposed by the Guarantee Committee and, for the sake of completeness, I add that, in the case of the approval of Mr Sklenák's amendment, these legislative technical amendments will be reflected in the effectiveness of the law that the amendment amends. Now I would also like to comment on my amendment, and I would like to sum up the history of the motion by Senator Plaček to increase the contribution to care for those who are being cared for in the home environment. This has been done several times, and I may repeat myself in many ways, but the survey really shows that most disabled people and aging seniors are not interested in life in institutions of the constitutional type and want to live in a home environment. It's understandable. In the home environment people are given patient and kind care, usually by family members, they remain in their environment, they are not broken ties with friends. Of course, psyche is very important for these people, it is important for them to respect their individual values and, of course, dignity. This group was proposed to increase the care allowance by CZK 6,000. It has also been said that the border between the third and fourth levels is indeed very fragile and is often criticised in practice and is the reason for many appeals. These people need almost the same day care, and the difference is often only about whether cognitive functions are preserved or not. By approving the Senate proposal, as it was submitted, persons at the third stage would receive a care allowance of CZK 8,800 and persons at the fourth stage of CZK 19,200, which would mean a difference of CZK 10,400. Therefore, if we wanted to increase the care allowance, the increase had to be extended by a third degree, so that at least the two hardest groups would be balanced. [[11.20 hours]] Here it was said that I tabled an amendment that reduced the contribution to care. It's not true. My amendment amounts to CZK 7,000 in total. Although some, of course, do not like it, I must say that it is budgetaryly responsible and sustainable in the long term. At the time it was filed, it was the result of negotiations with the Minister of Finance with the knowledge that there will be an even increase in the care allowance for all persons in the two most serious levels of dependence, whose stay in home care, as I have already said, usually requires the full day care of several persons. As there is political support for Mr Sklenák's amendment, I would like to say for our club that, in addition to my proposal, we will support this amendment, which we also announced at the press conference. Finally, I would like to say, because we also lack the systemicity and clear valorisation mechanism, so we will also support the resolution proposed by Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u91	Thank you, too. These are all the factual remarks and all the applications for debate at the moment. I'll read the note. Mr Janda has been apologizing to us since 12:45 p.m. for work reasons. Since I don't see any more applications for the debate at this point, I am ending the debate and I have been notified, or I have been able to call for a 25 minute break from the ODS, which means we'd be declaring it now. Madam Vice-President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u92	Yes, that's right. Good morning. Colleagues, colleagues, Vice-President, on behalf of the ODS Club, I propose a 25-minute break, so if we could meet here before 12 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u93	Well, in that case, I'll meet you here at 11:47 and the final words will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u94	The honourable Member, honourable Members, is 11.47. I welcome you back to the O.R. after the break. Please take your seats, if necessary. First of all, I have information for you that Mr Bojko is withdrawing his apology and is present. We took a break at the ODS club meeting. I don't know if the ODS club wants to introduce us to any conclusions? It doesn't look like it. In that case, we will proceed to closing arguments. First of all, I'd like to ask Senator Třísková if she's interested in the final word. He's not interested. In that case, Mrs Dražilová. He's not interested. Mrs Jírovcová is also not interested. In that case, we have exhausted the final words and will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u95	I think that we should first vote on the withdrawal of Amendment 1647 by Mr Kaňkovský, which we have designated as H10, because he asked here to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u96	I agree. I see an application for check-out here, so I'm gonna check you out. I shall call my fellow Members to the Chamber. Please log in again with your voting cards... When the number of entries is settled... which still hasn't happened... I will repeat for the arrivals, we will vote on the withdrawal of Amendment H10, it is the House document 1647 by Mr Kaňkovský. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 88 vote, 148 Members and Members were enrolled, for 147, against no one. The motion has been withdrawn and I ask the rapporteur to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u97	I will now read the resolution as proposed in the Social Committee when the Social Committee recommends voting One. Proposals for legislative technical adaptations pursuant to § 95 para. Article 2 (2) of the Rules of Procedure presented at third reading. Two. Amendment under point (a) F, G, E, H7 to H9, H4 to H6, H1 to H3, B, D, A1 and A2, C, A3. We will also vote on the bill as a whole. And for the last time, we will vote on the motion for an accompanying resolution. I would like to say on this voting procedure that it has been approved on the Social Committee unanimously by all the members of the Social Committee and the motivation for the creation of the voting procedure was not the greatest impact on the budget, but the ranking of amendments which amend the most provisions of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u98	Thank you. I believe that further proposals for the procedure have been made, so please, Prime Minister Stanjuru first. Or is it Mr. Sklenák? Make a deal, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u99	I would also like to add that, in the event of approval of any amendment, others are unvoting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u100	I have a point here that does not concern design A3. He's voteable regardless of the others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u101	Yes. Proposal for an accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u102	Now please, if there are other suggestions for procedures. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u103	I have two things. Firstly, it has nothing to do with the negotiation process, but with logic, and that is also a question of legislation. I am convinced that what the rapporteur said that when one proposal passes, the others are unvoting, it is simply not true. I'm not talking about A3. I'm talking about the others. And I'm talking in particular, I was talking about it in my performance, the writing. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the I'll explain. All amendments, with the exception of these two points, concern dependence in the third and fourth stages. I understand there that when we decide how it will be in the third and fourth degrees in any variant, all other variants in the third and fourth levels are, of course, unvoteable. However, the only point relating to dependence in the first and second stages are points A1.a), A1b) and A1.2a and A1.2b). So I don't think it's true that these proposals are unvoted. They can vote calmly as last before the vote of the law as a whole. First of all. [[11.50 hours]] Two. The rapporteur said that the amendments are set out according to how far they are changing the proposal initially tabled, and I think that is not true. I don't want to argue about it. The original proposal says: in the fourth stage plus 6,000, and if you look at the proposals, for example, for the rapporteur and Mr Bauer, the original proposal changes Mr Bauer's proposal more, but I do not want to argue about it. I have a specific proposal and we will decide the dispute by voting. I propose that we vote first on point D, Mr Bauer's amendment, then on point E, Mr Sklenák's amendment, then on point G, Mrs Gajdůšková's amendment, then on amendments H7 to H9 by Mr Kaňkovský, then on the amendment under point F by Mrs Dražilová and the rest I would leave the same. It is precisely in the logic that I drew your attention to in my speech in the general debate, from the one that increases the contributions most, to the one that increases the least. So let me just repeat: D, E, G, H7 to H9, F. And then they would be H1 to H3, B, D, A1 to A2, A1 and A2 in those parts that I was talking about, that I think are voteable, C, A3, the law as a whole and the accompanying resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u104	As far as I understand it, you're proposing part of the A1 proposal, and it seems that it would be a separate vote, so it would not be contrary to the rest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u105	Because they are voteable even if they go through other proposals in third and fourth degrees. I'm sure of it. The letters C and D which relate to the third and fourth levels cannot be voted, but the letters A and B may be voted in my opinion. I don't know if the petitioner, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, agrees, but I think that's how it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u106	Thank you, too. And as for the second proposal, there's the order D, E, G, H7 to H9, F, H4 to H6, H1 to H3, B, A1, A2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u107	A1, A2 either whole or only in that part, if it's accepted something before. C, A3, whole, accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u108	H10 and A3. Okay, thank you. Any other suggestions for the procedure? Mr. Sklenák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u109	I am therefore fundamentally opposed to the procedure proposed by President Stanjura. You see, we have adopted a change in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies in the last parliamentary term, we have set up a so-called guarantee committee and one of the responsibilities of the guarantee committee is to propose a procedure and adopt opinions on individual proposals. And we did this precisely so that, at the third reading here at the House, we would not deal with such a detailed procedure as to vote on the individual points of each amendment. The Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee dealt with this press, of course. The ODS had their deputy there, he didn't say a word and approved the procedure as proposed. It was approved by everyone back then. I think that distributing individual amendments now after the paragraphs leads us to make a mistake. But, of course, I do not question the right of colleague Stanjura to propose such a procedure at all, but I think that the House should decide to do so by voting. But I am giving, as I have announced in the general debate, a proposal for a change of procedure. [[Laughter explosions from the right.]] But it's much simpler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u110	Quiet in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u111	I am convinced that she has logic, and eventually the sněmovna will decide whether she identifies with me or not. As I have already said in the general debate, when the committee's recommendations or recommendations are then voted, only two amendments have received a recommendation opinion. I have suggested that a vote be put first on the one that is so-called more generous, or that is to a greater extent, and if it does not pass to vote on the other. Because a lot of people tell me we're going to vote for the first one, and if it doesn't pass, it's going to vote for the second one. That is why I propose this procedure, because if it were reversed, it would not be possible to go back to something that a person might like to support if he did not go through his amendment that he prefers. So my change of procedure is very simple. I merely propose that, after the vote on legislative technical adaptations, we first vote on my amendment, which is under the heading E, and then only the order as proposed by the Social Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u112	Thank you. I understand, therefore, that you are opposed to the two proposals for a change in the Stanjura procedure, both against the division of the A1 proposal and against the change in order. I'll ask the rapporteur. Chairman Stanjura reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u113	In my opinion, my first proposal is heading towards a clear legislative error, excluding some of the proposals from voting by misjudgement is, in my view, an error that may jeopardise the validity of the entire law. That's the distribution of A1 and A2. If the House refuses, please, I merely pointed out that the adoption of another proposal does not exclude voting on those points. First of all. But I have to get to the other one. Roman Sklenák, my honourable colleague, logically said that he wanted his amendment to be voted before the rapporteur's amendment, because it is more generous. I totally agree with that. But he no longer agrees to vote before his proposal on Mr Bauer's proposal, which is more generous than Mr Sklenák's proposal. And here's where the logic goes, my colleague, through Mr President. I agree that the House will decide. But in that argument, we should say, we have three suggestions, mine is the most generous one, which is why it has to be voted before the third one, but the first generous one, let's... It doesn't matter. The logic is already limping. [[12.00 hours]] And a second logical error in judgment. First of all, Mr Sklenák reprimands us for taking the liberty of proposing a change of procedure, even though he said it was legitimate, I know he left it to us. First it reprimands us, that's why we have the guarantee committee, and you from the opposition are ruining it for us. Well, then I'd like to propose a little change, and that's a big difference. [[A round of applause for Members of the ODS.]] So, logically, a government MP can... everyone can, but if a government MP suggests it, that's fine, that's normal. And when it is proposed by the opposition Member, you are ruining our Rules of Procedure, because that is why we have set up a guarantee committee that has proposed a vote for us. I don't think that was the main reason. The main reason was the opinions. None of us is suggesting that the views of the Social Committee as adopted be heard here, that is perfectly legitimate. Just as legitimate is the logical procedure from the most generous to the least generous. That's what I suggested. Apparently, he's definitely gonna disprove it for me. He doesn't want to vote on the most Sklenák. So let's vote against him. Then he doesn't pass, and then it's your turn as the second most generous. But he does not want to allow the vote with his proposal. That's all. And I would ask the legislation to say that, indeed, if an E, F, H7 and H9 were to be adopted, for example, if this precludes Mrs Pekarová Adamová's amendments concerning the first and second levels of addiction. I just don't think so. This is not a political dispute right now, but a dispute over the procedure, a dispute about whether or not every amendment that is unique is to be voted on. I think it's meant to be voted on. It's clear from the debate that he's not gonna make it. But that doesn't mean that if we assume he won't pass, we won't vote on him at all. Of course, it is much more important for us to vote from the most generous, as Mr Sklenák rightly said, to the least generous. We're totally in agreement. The other is more of a technique, a warning to me of a mistake made by legislation, which no doubt consulted the rapporteur, as it always does with each rapporteur, consults the draft procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u114	Mr Sklenák wants to respond. I would really like us to move from this debate on the procedure to the vote itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u115	Me too. [[Laughs in the hall.]] All I know is that my colleague Stanjura has a sense of logic, so these are rhetorical exercises. I've justified my progress as I proceed. And it is a response to the vote of the guarantee committee, which supported only two amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u116	Thank you. I would ask that we turn to each other in the hall through the President. [[Mr Stanjur:]] Mr President, do you really want to exercise priority rights yet? [[Yes.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u117	Vice-President, I'm sorry. I asked the legislation twice whether it was a good idea to rule out the A points as a whole. I didn't get an answer. So I would ask either you, after consulting the legislation or the rapporteur, to rule it out for us. Then we can't vote on it. I understand that. I'm pointing that out. I could be wrong. But I'd like to hear from someone who watches the legislation, whether I'm right or not. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u118	Thank you. In that case, we will wait a little while for the rapporteur to consult with the legislation, and then we will know the answer. Is there a five-minute application? [[A request from various Members in the Chamber for a five-minute break.]] Let's take a break until 12:08, if that's what it takes. Or does the rapporteur already know? [[Yes.]] The rapporteur already knows, so I will let the rapporteur speak first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u119	After consulting the legislation, we can theoretically vote on the proposals of A1 Mrs Pekarová separately. It's completely illogical because I'm going to explain what's going on. The first and second degree would be linked to the multiples of life minima, these are the letters A and B, and C and D would be the fixed amount, the third and the fourth degree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u120	Okay. Thank you for the clarification. I suppose it's clear what the law would look like after that. And I think we're going to have to deal with this draft procedure by voting. I just don't know if there's a recess request for clubs to deal with this proposal or if we're going to vote. [[Newsletter: I think so.]] So I would have seen the procedure by voting first on the possibility of dividing those parts of the A1 proposal, then we would have voted first on Mr Sklenák's proposal for a priority. If this does not pass, we will vote on the proposal for a different order of proposals. And if this does not pass, then we will vote on the procedure proposed by the committee. And as long as this procedure is chosen, we will proceed. [[A commotion in the hall.]] I think it's a match. And if there is no request for a break, then we will deal with this gradually. [[Individual Members propose a recess, but no President shall appear for the break.]] So, first of all, we will vote on the possibility of a separate vote on the parts of proposal A1, namely points 1a and b and number 2a and b. So. I hope it's clear how we're voting on the procedure. [[Confusion and noise in the hall.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. We're voting on the split. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 89 vote, 168 Members and Members were enrolled, for 154, against 5. This division has been accepted. Now would we vote on the proposal to adjust the order of vote for each proposal, in accordance with Mr Sklenák's proposal? [[Conjecture in the hall.]] Stanjury? All right, well, let's take it in the order that they were presented. So now we're going to vote in the order of proposals D, E, G, H7 to H9, F, H4 to H6 and so on. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this procedure. Who's against it? In the 90 vote, 168 Members and Members were enrolled, for 74, against 81. The motion was denied. We will now vote on the draft procedure as modified by Mr Sklenák, that is, the first proposal E, and then continue the rest as proposed by the committee. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. I'm asking who's against it. Thank you. In the 91 vote, 168 Members and Members were enrolled, for 91, against 1. The motion was accepted. So we'll continue with this procedure. This is what we have decided on the procedure and I ask the rapporteur to take on our implementation of the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u121	We will now vote on Mr Sklenák's proposal under E. The Social Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u122	Have a nice noon. I'm sorry, we have to take turns. You recommend it? And the position? [[The senator recommends, but his mic isn't on.]] On the microphone, please. [[Madam senator: Recommendant.]] So is there any other comment from the legislation?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u123	Yes. As a first, legislative technical amendments were to be voted on. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u124	Yes, that's what I thought it should be. [[An explosion of laughter in the hall.]] So please, we would be the first to, I'm sorry, I'm taking over now, so I'm going to take a short look. We would therefore be the first to vote on legislative technical comments. Then give us a tour, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u125	Legally, I have read the technical adaptations here, so, of course, the opinion of the Social Committee recommending them. [[unintelligible]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u126	Okay. Senator? [[Suggestor: Recommendant.]] Okay. We will take the vote. I'm opening the vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 92, registered by 168 Members, for 167, versus zero. The result - was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u127	And now we will vote on the proposal under the letter E of Mr Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u128	Opinion? [[Newsletter: Recommendant. Suggestor: Recommendant.]] Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 93, Mr 168, in favour of 166, against zero. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u129	Since this amendment has been adopted, the other proposals are unvoteable and we will now vote on the law as a whole. [[Dissenting voices from the diaper.]] I am sorry, part of Amendment A1 concerning Section 11 (1) will be voted on. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) and (b). A paragraph 2 (a) is replaced by the following: (a) and (b).
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u130	So, your position? [[Newsletter: Unadvisable. Suggestor: Unadvisable.]] I'm opening the vote. Those in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 94, registered by 168 Members, for 38, against 73. The motion was denied. If I have the right information, all the proposals have been voted on. Another A3. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u131	So now we will vote on proposal A3. The opinion of the Social Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u132	It's still legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u133	After consulting the legislative A3 it is unvoteable and we will vote the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u134	That's what I said, but I left you some space. [[Laughing in the hall, applause.]] Please give Mr. President of the ODS club priority to Stanjur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u135	I really don't understand. The Guarantee Committee has recommended to us the guarantee committee in charge of this, and you all have it in writing, in paragraph 13, to vote on Amendment A3, without commenting that it would be unvoted as in the previous points. And we approved it in the procedure. Well, I don't even understand the legislation as to how she could admit it, because the unvoting went through the committee. It was supposed to be unvoting in that case, then it's a mistake. But we voted for the mistake, so we approved that the A3 will vote. Take a look at point 13 of this material from the Social Policy Committee resolution. So I think we need to... Well, I'm not gonna advise you, so deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u136	I think the easiest thing to do is actually let A3 vote. And it's either gonna pass, or it's not gonna pass. I think that's an opinion I think we should make. So I suggest we vote on the A3, and we don't have to argue over it. Let's go. [[Mrs Dražilová is asking for further action.]] I think the easiest thing is if we vote on A3 and we vote on it and we don't talk about legislation saying that or that. So if you don't mind me asking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u137	Okay, let's vote on A3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u138	So it's an opinion? [[Newsletter: Unadvisable. Suggestor: Unadvisable.]] So we're going to take the A3 vote. Those in favor, raise your hand and press the button. If you're against it, raise your hand and press the button. Voting number 95, registered by 168 Members, for 28, against 97. The motion was denied. And we're done here. If I may repeat, I think all the proposals have been voted on. We would therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Senate bill amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on social services, as amended, according to the House's press 160, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 96, registered by 168 Members, for 165, against zero. The result that the law was passed. [[Applause from the left side of the hall.]] I also ask the rapporteur to present the motion for an accompanying resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u139	We will now vote on the accompanying resolution, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the Government to prepare a predictable valorisation mechanism for increasing the contribution to care in all levels of dependence on a fixed economic indicator by 1 September 2019.' The opinion of the Social Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u140	So I think that we have therefore heard the content of the resolution, so there is nothing to prevent us from taking the vote immediately. I'm opening the vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 97, 168 Members signed in for 156, versus zero. The result - was accepted. So I'm done discussing this bill. Madam Secretary is interested in giving her priority rights, so we'll give her room. I thank the senator otherwise, but you can listen to this, I guess that's the point. Then please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u141	Thank you very much. Just very quickly, I really want to thank all Members very sincerely for the fact that today's proposals, which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs considers to be systemic and important, have passed. So thank you again. I think it's an excellent Christmas present for all 90,000 people involved in this adjustment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-07-ps2017-024-04-002-127.u142	I also thank the plaintiff's representative, Senator Emilia Třísková, Mrs Lenka Dražilová, and we will proceed to the next point. We have a point here.
