ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-007-008.u1	8. Government bill on accessibility of websites and mobile applications and on amendment of Act No. 365/2000 Coll., on information systems of public administration and on the amendment of certain other laws, as amended / House print 170/ - second reading It was originally done by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček, but here I have a written letter from Minister Hamáček that, on behalf of the absent Prime Minister, Minister Hamáček instructs the Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk to represent the petitioner of House Press 170, he agrees, at second reading at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies 4. 12. Now, Minister, I call on you, Minister of Culture, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-007-008.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, under the authority of Minister Hamáček, allow me to briefly recall the proposal for a law on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications. The purpose of this law is to transpose the Directive on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector entities into the Czech rule of law. The aim of this Directive is to ensure more accessible websites and mobile applications across the European Union. The proposed law is therefore intended to ensure the accessibility of websites and mobile applications to all their users, but in particular to persons with disabilities. [[18.40 hours]] Websites and mobile applications must be readable, manageable, understandable and stable for their users. Therefore, the draft law defines, firstly, the mandatory entities to which the obligation to ensure accessibility of websites and mobile applications applies, secondly, it provides for the very accessibility of websites and mobile applications, thirdly, regulates the institute of disproportionate burdens, fourthly, regulates the accessibility declaration, fifthly, it provides for a complaint procedure in the event that accessibility is not ensured, sixthly, it establishes the competence of the Ministry of the Interior and, finally, the seventh contains a related legislative technical amendment to the Act on Information Systems of Public Administration. The provision of accessibility to websites and mobile applications is carried out on the basis of the requirements contained in the relevant European standards referred to in the draft law. This will ensure that the websites and mobile applications of obliged entities comply fully with European requirements. The amount of costs that will have to be incurred to make the website available and mobile applications of obliged entities will range from CZK 6 000 to CZK 15 000. It is assumed that these costs will be paid directly by the compulsory body. The issue of public availability of technical standards was discussed when discussing the draft law by the Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The outcome of this discussion is the accompanying resolution of this committee. However, since this is a matter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, I refer further to any comments made by the Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-007-008.u3	Thank you, Minister. In the first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 170/1, 170/2 and 170/3. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Ondřej Profant, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal, justifying any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-007-008.u4	Good evening, dear colleagues, dear public. I will just sum up that the right to accessibility of information and services is generally enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, because the accessibility we are talking about is mainly so that people with disabilities, such as color blindness or the like, can consume websites and mobile applications like the rest of us. Of the real problems that solve this, these are mainly mobile applications that have not been modified at all, but also things like CAPTCHA or outdated Flash or Silverlight technology. And now for the hearing itself. The bill was sent to Members as House press 170 already in May. There was also a first reading in May. The guarantee committee therefore supported the law by its resolution 170/2 and recommended two amendments. Firstly, the proposal to publish the requirements required by this law for those websites and mobile applications on the Home Office's website means that the information required by that law is really available. And then Mr Václav Klaus' amendment - effectiveness for schools. Since these are quite technical amendments, I will not read them here directly. They're in the House press 170/2. Furthermore, the guarantee committee approved the motion for an accompanying resolution in document 170/3 and I will read it to you: the Committee on Public Administration recommends to the Chamber of Deputies in the House of the Press 170 to adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to take the necessary steps to ensure the public availability of all technical standards for the application of the principle of equality before law and the availability of law." There is this, it is written in such a way that the government ensures, there is no specific provision that could disrupt any international treaties or something like that. But the demand is clear that what is left in our legal order should be made available to our citizens, because it is not now fulfilled. The Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court have also spoken about this several times. I would also like to add from the rapporteur's position that I will be making an amendment in terms of effectiveness, because the current proposal already has efficiency in the past, and also the Ministry of the Interior has prepared a House document 1109, where the effectiveness is changing, which I will then put forward in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-007-008.u5	Thank you. I am now opening up a general debate, in which Mr Ondřej Profant has rejoined, so you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-007-008.u6	So this time, not from the position of rapporteur, but from the position of Member. I would like to present two amendments, which I will read in a detailed debate. First, House document 1855, complements the obligation of this law not only for general public subjects, but also for Czech Television and Czech Radio, i.e. public media. They're exempt. The explanatory memorandum states that it will be dealt with by separate directives. However, I think that this issue is so simple that we can deal with it directly. So also Czech Radio and Czech Television, which, as an institution, are set up to disseminate information, should, of course, have a website accessible to all, including people with disabilities and so on. I don't think they can be burdened because most of them are already fulfilling it today or in the law there is a part about extraordinary and disproportionate burdens. And I deal with the disproportionate and extraordinary burden in my second amendment because the wording seems too rubbery to me. It doesn't say who's controlling it. Because today these institutions can say, for us, it's an disproportionate burden, and not to do anything, which is probably useless to us, which is why I'm specifying the amendment, and I'm introducing that the Ministry of the Interior is controlling it so there's some sort of oversight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-007-008.u7	Thank you. Let me see if we have anyone else for the general debate. I see that we do not, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. There's no interest. I therefore initiate a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. We have two Members, so again Mr Ondřej Profant. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-007-008.u8	Hello for the third time. I want to sign up for my three amendments. The first is House document 1109, which is a modification of effectiveness so that it is correct. Next is House Document 1855, which is an extension of the scope to Czech Television and Czech Radio. And the third document is 1856, which is an disproportionate burden. I have justified everything in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-007-008.u9	Thank you. Now, Mr Václav Klaus. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-007-008.u10	Good evening. I would like to sign up for the amendment - House document 945, which I have tabled. I handed it to several school associations on request and the guarantee committee supported it, for which I thank you. Now I'm going to justify what the point is. The purpose of this law is to transpose Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on the accessibility of the website, etc. That's what Mr. Profant said. The directive primarily aims at the state and national authorities and local authorities, and the directive also requires that to a minimum extent ensure accessibility of its websites and mobile applications also to universities, schools and school establishments. However, the submitted government bill goes well beyond the directive in the case of universities, schools and school facilities and requires, in fact, the accessibility of all websites. It was based on the instigation of the Minister responsible for human rights coordination, equal opportunities, Mr Dienstbier, that's how it got there. So the proposal goes to that... in fact, the universities, schools and school facilities would have to ensure full access to all content by January 2023. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has calculated the costs of this measure to about CZK half a billion, which would be burdened by schools, and it would often be disproportionately burdened financially and organizationally by those village schools and small schools, which may not have any student with disabilities at all. It is also important to say that schools are obliged, without this, to make available all content on the basis of the very students they have. So my amendment actually repeals the one paragraph and removes the schools from it, from the very strict obligation that goes beyond the EU directive. That's pretty much it. So if you want to give a little support to schools in this sense so that they are not so burdened with other organizational matters, I would be happy if you would support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-007-008.u11	Thank you. And now... Yes, an amendment, I'll put you in here. Let me now see if we have any further applications for a detailed debate. I don't see anybody, so I'm ending the debate in detail. And since we have no motion for a vote, I am ending second reading of this proposal. Well, we still have time, which means we're gonna start another press. Minister Brabec is present, as always, ready.
