ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-001-020.u1	20. Members of Zdeněk Ondráček, Jan Richter, Jan Birk and others on the issue of the Act amending Act No. 250/2016 Coll., on liability for and management of offences, as amended by Act No. 173/2018 Coll., and Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Traffic on the Road and on Amendments to Certain Acts (the Road Traffic Act), as amended (the House Press 274/ - First Reading in accordance with § 90 para. 2 I'm really going to ask you all to remain calm in the hall, in case you have any discussion to transfer it to the lobby, and if possible you will remain in your seats, it will only disturb your movement. [[15.30 hours]] Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. We received the Government's position as House Press 274/1. I will now ask the plaintiff Zdeněk Ondráček to present the proposal to us. One more time, please, quiet in the room! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-001-020.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, Mr Ministers, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, thank you for including this point. I think I'll be very brief. It is based on the reply of the Minister of Interior to the interpelation I had before the holiday of this year, when the Minister of Interior Metnar answered it, but the interpellation here in the House the first day after the appointment was answered by the Minister of Interior Hamáček. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] This is a fairly simple amendment to two laws and the first one is Law No. 250/2016 Coll., on liability for and management of offences, as amended by Act 173/2018 Coll. -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-001-020.u3	I'm gonna cut you off for a minute, Mr. Ambassador. You scream it out, you have a strong voice, but I really see the sound level in the room as disproportionate. If you have something to deal with, go take care of it outside the door! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-001-020.u4	Thank you, too, Mr President. - when we put a new § 91 in this law by imposing a fine on the spot. It's basically a return before date 1. 7. 2017 until when the old offence law No. 200/1990 Coll., when some offences could be resolved on the spot. With a deal. The sanctions, which are in the new and old law, do not change in essence, but the agreement in the new law 250 is no longer, so it was decided by order that the authorities that do so are most often police officers or officers of the city and municipal police, are obliged to discuss the offence with the wrongdoer, to write down with him a warning block, which is basically the same as the penalty block, which would then be introduced into other systems and records, and, after mutual agreement here in discussing the information, we agreed that the record of such marginal offences and their errors, which can be resolved at the point of warning, is useless. Since it was not possible to do so otherwise, we agreed to return before Act 250 was effective, stating that it was newly written: The administrative authority may impose only a fine on the spot if the agreement and the accused or the person acting for the accused who is a legal or natural person is not sufficient, agrees with the established situation, etc. That means there won't be a need to deal with misdemeanors on the spot by unnecessary administration, and a member or officer will solve the matter on the spot quite quickly. There are dozens of examples of such a situation. I mentioned the transport case during the discussion, and my fellow officers tell me that I have not been in service for a long time, because I would know that traffic offences cannot be resolved on the spot except by a fine. I'm sorry, I didn't know the situation at the time, I really had to look into Act 361, on road traffic, to find that there was a discrepancy if a person committed a traffic offence was a natural person or a legal person. If it were a legal person, it was stated that a fine could be imposed for an offence. In the case of a natural person, it was stated that a fine would be imposed in the law for an offence. Now what's the difference? Such a situation may occur soon. I will give the clear example of someone driving a vehicle with an older year of production in a week, in 14 days' time for souls, with no lights on and a member of the Police of the Czech Republic stopping it. In such a case, such a member would be obliged under the law to impose a fine of at least CZK 2,000 on the driver and to give him two penalty points. If it's such a serious offense to be sanctioned like this, it's useless. We may all agree that such an offence is possible, and unfortunately - not unfortunately, but contrary to the law it is happening today, and such an offence is solved by members and officers so called. a reminder which is not in the law. So at this point, I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior, who prepared this amendment with his team, at the same time the Minister of Transport, who also agreed to the correction, with the unification of when a fine can be imposed, and whether it is an obligation or that such a fine can be imposed, so both ministers have worked, respectively. both their teams have drawn up this amendment, which is quite simple. I would also like to thank all the Members' clubs, because if you look at the petitioners of this amendment, you will see 18 names of you, colleagues and colleagues who are dealing with the issue of safety and transport, after two people from each political club - always one trafficman and one security guard. So I thank all those who signed this amendment. Since it is appropriate, we propose that this amendment be discussed in accordance with Section 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your support and I believe that this year's souls are not yet, but next year, right after the New Year, when we expect this law to come into force, we will relieve all people who will be able to be reminded, virtually, for marginal error on the wrong side. they can be dealt with by an officer or a police officer on the scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-001-020.u5	Thank you. I would like the rapporteur to take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Zuzana Ožanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-001-020.u6	Mr President, Mr Government, honourable Members, the subject of the amendment is to re-establish legislation to deal with offences by reason of agreement and to clarify the possibility of imposing a warning. Following the agreement, the relevant legislation of the Road Traffic Act is also proposed. On 1. 7. 2017 Act No. 250/2016 Coll., on liability for and management of offences, which amended the imposition of administrative penalty for offenses by order on the spot. The on-the-spot order replaced the decision issued in the block procedure under the previous legislation. Agreed. According to previous legislation, the offence could be dealt with by imposing a fine in a block procedure if it was reliably established, it was not sufficient to agree and the accused of the offence was willing to pay the fine. Under the current legislation, the administrative authority may impose only a warning or a fine on the spot if the accused or a person acting as an accused natural person agrees with the state of the case, the administrative qualifications of the act, the imposition of the fine and its amount and the issuing of the order block. The current legislation does not contain an institute of agreement. Any methodical adjustment to the agreement has no legal support. Remembrance. According to previous legislation, it was only by order or decision that the warning could be imposed. Only a fine could be imposed in the block proceedings. Under the current legislation, the administrative authority may impose an on-the-spot warning or a fine by order. If the possibility of dealing with an offence is again introduced, it is illogical that a warning may be imposed by a command on the site, earlier by a block. The administrative burden of saving the warning on the spot is considerable and unnecessary if the agreement is sufficient. To amend the Road Traffic Act. The aim of the change is to eliminate doubt whether or not road traffic offences can be dealt with. The proposed amendment will clearly also enable these offences to be dealt with through agreement. Finally, I would like to point out that the proposed legislation reflects the requirements of practice to reduce the administrative burden on offences with low social harm. I recommend that you give my consent to the proposal in the first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-001-020.u7	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government. We will continue following the rapporteur's report. And before I open the debate, I'll read two apologies. Ondřej Benešík apologizes from 14.00 to 14.30 for work reasons and Mrs Pastuchová from 17.40 until the end of the day. I'm opening up a debate, but I'm saying I don't have an application for it, and I'm asking who's applying from the scene. I see no one, so I can end the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? It's not like that. I state that no objection has been raised to the procedure under Article 90 (1) of the EC Treaty. 2, and so we can continue. First of all, by decision pursuant to § 90 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) I've begun to announce that we're going to vote. While this is a procedural vote, it is of fundamental importance. This is about the resolution that I will make: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on Houses of the Press 274 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And before the number of entries is settled, allow me to state another apology, an apology to Minister Jan Kněžínek from all this afternoon's meeting. The Minister of Justice apologizes. We will now decide on the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 274 so that consent can be given at first reading in the vote of 35 which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. It's serial number 35. Of the present 153, for 150, against 1. The motion was accepted. The resolution has been approved. We can therefore move forward, starting with a detailed debate. In a detailed debate during the procedure until Section 90 para. 2 amendments or other proposals may not be tabled, but only propose to correct the date of effectiveness in the proposal or legislative technical regulation. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate because I don't have a written application. No one's checking in. I am also ending this debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. We can therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Zdeněk Ondráček, Jan Richter, Jan Birk and others to issue a law amending Act No. 250/2016 Coll., on liability for and management of offences, as amended by Act No. 173/2018 Coll., and Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic and Amendments to Certain Acts, as amended, House Press 274." [[Road Traffic Act]] I've started voting number 36 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. It's serial number 36. Of the 161 Members present, for 158, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I'm done with the hearing. I thank the representatives of the appellants, thank the rapporteur, and I conclude with this point. The next item is:
