ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u1	Thank you. However, this is an exceptional historical moment. In 1989, after November at round tables, governments formed an agreement where communists, folks, then national socialists, and representatives of non-party public represented by the charter. This political representation led the country to free elections that took place in mid-1990. Since the 1990 free elections, the Communist Party has never become a government party. It has been 28 years since this political representation has always been able to form a majority in the Chamber of Deputies without the participation of extremists, i.e. even without the participation of the Communist Party. This is a historic moment when any of you who step out and say "proposition" decides that the Communist Party is becoming a government party. It's decided on consciously that it's Putinův's Fifth Column. It is decided in the knowledge that it is not a completely democratic political party. It is entirely legitimate that there is no doubt in this Parliament because it has been elected. But it only matters to each of you whether or not he will have a share in executive power. Each of you will be responsible for this. [[Part of the Members came out in front of the bench, discussing loudly in the crowds and in the benches.]] When history or children or grandsons ask us, please don't hold up the argument that the club has made a deal. Or that's what we decided. That vote is by name because everyone decides for themselves. Each of you will have to, each of us will have to look his children and grandsons in the eye and say, "I let the communists in because of the colon." And now the reason--
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u2	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to ask all my colleagues to settle in their seats and make it possible to perform. [[Only a part of the Members responded.]] I know it's after midnight, but let's try to do it in a dignified atmosphere, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u3	[[He speaks strongly, urgently.]] Each of you will have to justify this not only to your own conscience, but to your own offspring. We will vote on the trust of the Communist government. There will be no government other than communist rule. You will now decide, each of us will decide whether or not this communist government will have confidence. It's up to each of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u4	Thank you. At this point, I'm registering two factual points. Mr Onderka will be the first to make a point of fact, and Mr Zaorálek will be prepared. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I confess that today I expected which of the South Moravian Members, or specifically the Brno Members, will ask me if I trust Andrea Babiš. Who's gonna ask me if I'm gonna vote for the government and if I support this government being supported by the Communist Party? Because South Moravian MPs know I'm the son of an 85-year-old. And that I don't trust the Communist Party. And I appreciate you, all of you, including the government. And I will try to trust each and every one of you to the first betrayal. Prime Minister, through the President, Mr Holomčík, and everyone else. Believe me, I'm being honest. And when my children ask what I did today, that I voted for this government, I answer them one thing: I choose the least evil of all evils that could come. And I am actually convinced of that in my consciousness and conscience as I have made a pledge to the MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u6	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Zaorálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u7	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I've registered that several of my colleagues, and we've been approached as a club to say, if we raise our hand for the government, why are we doing this? I'll be quite brief. If I had to say the very main reason, perhaps I can afford to say it for my colleagues, it is to end in this country a period of uncontrolled government that reigns without trust. And one of you here said, I think it was one of the ODS Members: We agreed on everything with the Minister of Health, and now it's all different. We can't support it now. - It's just from that note that we've probably pushed through some of the stuff from our program. And that's why we're doing it. We have things that matter to us. If it turns out that they can't be enforced, then I'm convinced there's no point in us being in that government. And I told you the main reason, so let's vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u8	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact, President Kalousek. Then from the post, Mr. Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u9	Thank you. I would just like to thank Mr Onderk for his fair and certainly sincere answer. He just said, "I choose evil." Then the sentence went on, but if the evil is smaller or larger, it's already relative terms. You just choose evil, it's your legitimate decision, and I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u10	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't want to stretch the minutes at this late hour. I got a question. You know, I'm such a often unusual person in this environment. I'm an athlete. I'm used to looking my opponent in the eye. There was no other way in that ring than to look that person in the eye. You can't cheat in that ring. You have to fight in that ring, be honest. I don't know many dirty boxers. I know a lot of dishonest politicians. And I have the same answer as Roman Onderka. I'm used to trusting people into the first lie, the first foul. Then it's something else. I believe that we need to trust each other and look for a way out. That's why I'm here today. You're here to talk to me about the Communist Party. I don't want to tell my family stories here! When my dad, the big boss over PHM, became a cinema janitor in a year. What do you care? What do you care if I couldn't go on school trips? Nobody cares! We didn't have a crown! And yet here I stand, and I will give that trust, because that is the expression of democracy! Or do you think that out of 200 people here, someone is undemocratically elected? Are there political parties that have no democratic ties? Don't we have a political party oversight agency? We don't have a Constitution? What are we talking about here? It's very awkward. Do you know who gave birth to the YES, the Babiš? Who gave birth to him? Gentlemen! Mr. Kalousk! [[He speaks exhilaratingly, very loudly.]] Who gave birth to him? [[President: Through me. Turn to your colleagues through me.]] You gave birth to him! And us! How we behaved! We gave birth to him, social democracy, how many times we behaved! You, right hand, have privatized the Czech industry! When you guys got your church restitutions here, it was midnight, too. That's why we're here and it's embarrassing and I'm embarrassed too!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u12	Thank you. Mr Bartošek, Mr Ferjenčík, then Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u13	Thank you for the floor and thank you to Members and Members, by your means, for being able to speak up and defend their position on why they will vote. But it was said here twice: to the first betrayal. And I'm asking, what happened with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, with Mr. Poch, wasn't that treason? If not this, then what?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u14	Thank you. Another factual point by Mr Ferjenčík, then Mr Peksa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u15	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank, through the President, colleagues from the ČSSD, that, unlike those who ask for confidence, they respond to questions. Appreciate it. And I wanted to ask if the fact that Mr. Hanzel did not become the first Vice-President of the House, but Mr. Filip, you consider it part of your agreements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u16	Thank you. Another point in fact, Mr Peksa, then President Kalousek. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u17	Thank you. It has been said here several times that it is a choice of lesser evil, perhaps. I'm sure it's until the first betrayal. I would just like to remind those parts of the Rules of Procedure that say how trust is pronounced and how distrust is pronounced. The government's trust is expressed by an absolute majority of Members present, but 101 Members are required to express distrust. If we count the members of the YES, we'll get 78. If we count the members of the SPD, we get 22. 78 and 22 is 100, i.e. that all the remaining ones, including communists and Social Democrats, Pirates, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN are just 100 and it's not enough to say the distrust. That means that if you vote for that trust now, then you won't be able to vote for distrust without convincing at least one ANO or SPD person to vote with us for distrust. That's a pretty dangerous situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u18	Thank you. Another point of fact, President Kalousek, then Mr Benešík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the sense of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to reply by your Presidency to Mr Foldyn, who has given the theory here that I may have given birth to Prime Minister Babiš. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I assure you, through the President, Mr Foldyna, that I did not, because if I did, I strangled him immediately on the umbilical cord. [[Laughing]] [[Laughter from the right.]] And today we were able to express our trust to someone who wasn't a notorious liar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u20	Another factual point, Mr Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u21	Dear Government, Mr President, my response will be very brief and in a similar way. It sounded like I was supposed to give birth to Mr. Babiš, too. I didn't give birth to him, so I have no parental responsibilities to him, and I will not support his government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u22	There. Thank you. However, we are not finished with factual remarks. Mr Hájek will have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u23	I have to! I have to. We have the pirát here, they're young, and we have to teach them. So, Mr Peks, through Mr President, that is, if you are speaking that there is a risk that YES and the SPD have 100 votes, contact the ODS consultation, those with Mr Melčák and Mr Pohanka have very good experience. [[The President Reminiscing]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u24	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Stanjura - it looks promising, no one has applied, you have the floor. And once again, I will ask for peace in the hall, if possible, to take your seats. We still have one more debater in front of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u25	Well, at least two when I'm looking at the board, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u26	I meant the next guy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u27	Very often I hear lamentations here, especially Members of the ANO movement, that those who have priority rights speak first and will not get to them. Yesterday, when this meeting began, I decided that I would not use my priority right and I would give a chance to ANO Members who would like to speak so much without waiting for them to do so. Almost 14 hours have passed since then, and no one has applied to the proper debate of YES Members. It's just on the edge. By performing after almost 14 hours, I have a chance to recapitulate what happened here. I'd say we've returned at least three times to the period of socialism. A retro like that isn't ever from the point of view. First, we heard the comrade Prime Minister's speech, assessing the achievements of the former four-year-old and drawing bold plans for the next four years. The dictionary, the dictionaries, the pace of speech, the pleasure of speech. Which one of you listened to the speeches of Prime Minister Štrougal and others very closely? And I thank you for the 90 minutes of retrostyle, because not just the style, but the content was pure socialism. The second moment we returned before 89 was the speech of the only Member who has defended this government so far. The only one. And this MP's name is Miroslav Grebeníček. And he used his favourite communist turns -- papalas, opposition, blabbermouths, their bullshit, all that was missing from the Soviet Union for eternity. Second retro. And the third retro-- the emotional outburst of comrade prime minister, that's where he showed up when somebody pissed off those communists. That was no longer the honey voice of the 90-minute machine reading of the achievements of the previous state-building period and anticipated achievements. That was the real face of Andrej Babiš. Now I have to improvise because it's after midnight. It's been 263 days since the election and 264 days since the election. We heard here - I don't know if it was ten minutes of pirate socialist friendship, how they were asking each other how they were going to vote and why they were going to vote, because in a minute we're all going to vote by standing up and expressing our opinion. And some social democracy colleagues here were talking about trust in the first betrayal, etc. And in addition to the fact that it is 264 days from the election, 269 days have passed since the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in the last parliamentary term, and that was the meeting I'm working on calling lithium. For colleagues of the Social Democrats who have the confidence and are ready to deal with this betrayal, I have looked at the tapestry and I quote to you a few statements from this meeting, which have been made from the mouths of the politicians YES, or the politicians ČSSD, or the politicians KSČM, i.e. those who create a new government. Andrej Babiš: "This is another business of ČSSD. And that's not the only tunnel the CSSD has prepared for us. They have prepared yet another tunnel, and that is the division of ČEZ. But what's scandalous is how social democracy leaders are actually lying. Someone here says no one's gonna care two weeks after the election. Well, I'll be interested. And I'll file a criminal complaint against Mr. Havlíček. And I'm gonna hand it over and I'm gonna sign it. Unlike those criminal announcements that were written on me by x different people." I did, I didn't, I don't know. They have confidence. Among other things, Andrej Babiš continued: "So please, colleagues from social democracy, stop lying! I understand you're upset, the preferences, it's not my fault. It would be good for you to stop lying. It's a scandal, it's a robbery, and we're gonna do everything we can to make this memorandum invalid." [[0.20 hours]] Another YES politician who spoke was Richard Brabec - currently absent. But after what I've heard here today, after that incredible load of lies and demagogy, I have to say, I've never seen a bigger mess, and forgive me that word, because I don't normally use it. We will try to quote some statements from some ČSSD politicians. I scared President Chvojka when I said I would praise him today and that his words were speaking out of my mind. At that time, the Human Rights Minister, President of the ČSSD MP Jan Chvojka said: "When we have gathered here today to help with the electoral campaign of congratulation of communists, anonists and yet untonnelled group of Tomio Okamura, let me say a few words on the subject of lithium. In my opinion, the lithium case is an artificial story and it was conceived by the marketing department of the ANO movement. Smart heads who care about political PR in the YES movement and who can read, decided that it would be precisely the opposite, that they would present it either as the theft in broad daylight, the megatonel of Social Democrats, or OKD No. 2. Unfortunately, the role of helpers is played by Communists from the left and Okamurův's house from the right. It is to say that the Communists in particular," says Jan Chvojka, "have taken up their roles with unprecedented passion. They have been working so closely with large capital for perhaps the last time during the Bolshevik revolution in Russia, when German capitalists smuggled their leader Lenin from Finland into Russia for the money," says Jan Chvojka. [[Cheer up in the right side of the hall.]] "For the sake of what are these lies being presented to society here? For the sake of what does a nationalist-communist front arise here? Why are the individual parts of this so-called national solidarity so closely coordinating?" The answer was recognized by Jan Chvojka during this parliamentary term. He himself speaks of the evil coalition YES, SPD and KSČM, but they have confidence and wait for someone to betray them. Allow me to quote again, and that will be the last quote from the meeting, such as the words of Jiří Havlíček, the Social Democrat. [[Ambassador Faltynek is speaking from the bench.]] If Mr. Faltýnek wants to, I have his words, too, so he won't be sorry. But first Minister Havlíček, Social Democrat. I don't know if you kept him in the party, but after today, you should vote him out because imagine what he said: "The next idea of Mr. Babiš and the Communists was to link the lithium case to the OKD case at all costs. But these, ladies and gentlemen, are the aesthetic methods which, it seems, are no stranger to Agent Bureš. You gentlemen make me want to throw up." But they have the confidence to wait until the first betrayal. [[Cheer and applause in the right side of the hall.]] As Pavel Kováčik, chairman of the KSČM Club, said: "You can see that the current government coalition is exhausted. And since we are hearing mutual attacks, the greater the importance of the official in the party and in the government - the greater the criminal in the eyes of the other government party, then I ask my colleagues from social democracy and the ANO movement, because they are the two parties, why were you together in that government for so long? Then why did you hold the government's teeth for so long? Didn't you guys know about each other who you are when you're betting like a bun on a store? The bigger the clerk, the bigger the robber." Now Pavel Kováčik will be there with them, so it will work. [[Cheer up on the right.]] Although I didn't want to, Prime Minister Faltýnek asked for it, I'm only going to read his first sentence. It's not entirely correct, but it's his words from the record: "I'm sorry, I'm not a geologist, I'm not a miner, I'm an idiot, we call Hané a stupid farmer and a Member." End quote of the lithium meeting. What happened in 269 days? I would say that the two delegations met and in a friendly and comrade atmosphere they settled old injustices, invited the Communists as just judges and created a new government in which the Social Democrats, in particular, have confidence. How will this government work? Quite simply. The director-general of the Czech Republic is Andrej Babiš and under him is completely subordinate to the Deputy Minister, who is still known as ministers who have to perform the duties of their superior. They can be replaced at any time if something doesn't please the CEO, or, God forbid, they have a slightly different opinion. Martin Stropnický, Robert Pelikán or Karla Šlechtová could tell us about this. It's what the others expect. The question is not whether it will happen, but when it will happen. And now we see tragicomic elements. A young minister of health - when a young person has a good party book, he can also have a great government function, whereas when a young person does not have the right party book, I don't know where the boys go about it, but they should be tutoring. [[Laughing from the right side of the hall.]] The young health minister called off the director of the hospital he appointed on the ground that he was being prosecuted. Praise, Minister, indeed. I have two specific questions. Should this principle apply to a member of the government? And the other. Should this principle also apply to the Prime Minister when he applies to the director of the hospital? I don't expect an answer. Jan Hamáček, when he defended the participation of social democracy in the government today, said that we were the first to have a party referendum and the referendum was decided. You know that we are opponents of referendums, but it turned out as always with a referendum. Yes, the referendum was, attendance was good, the outcome was clear, everyone satisfied except that Jan Hamáček was unable to enforce what the referendum was about. [[Cheer up in the right side of the hall.]] Five ministers, one of which was supposed to be called Miroslav Poche. I do not know who in the Czech Republic believes that Miroslav Poche will be Secretary of State. We don't. At least Jan Hamáček and Miroslav Poche make a face, don't they? That's quite a minority. [[Laughing from the right again.]] This is a referendum or not, I ask the proponents of the referendum when the result is not clear. But Mr. Europopovenka is helping out free of charge, and I have even read that he has an entry card from now on. I'm sorry, since yesterday, it's past midnight. Until then, the D.O.D. was a visitor. [[An explosion of laughter and a round of applause from the Pirates.]] I heard from members of social democracy, the least evil today, how they prevented the greater evil, the government YES, the KSČM and the SPD. [[unintelligible]] I would ask those members of social democracy to find me five differences in foreign policy SPD and KSČM. I just didn't find them there. Then I could ask an expert to find a match in Richard Brabec's individual party program, who has always found a match with anyone. Remember his public appearance when he found the big match to the SPD? But now Andrej Babiš says it's an extremist party. I don't know if he said - 80 percent of the match was found? Of 80 percent is the YES extremist party? I wouldn't dare say that. Richard Brabec did. But he also found a match with KSČM and social democracy. That's why I'm not gonna talk about the programming statement, it's a completely worthless document, what's inside it. Maybe the tragic elements. Have you noticed how Andrej Babiš appreciated his second government, or his first government, but the second one he was in? He says we found four billion on those twos and threes. [[Responses from government benches.]] He said four, maybe he meant eight, but he said four. Although it was the budget we inherited. Poor people, they inherited the budget prepared by Andrej Babiš, finished Ivan Pilný and for which Andrej Babiš and everyone else voted. But he inherited it and had to look for the four billion. But he found them, good news for the regions and roads of the second and third grade. [[0.30 hours]] I'm trying to find the motivation of the three parties, why they actually created this government, which is created only for power reasons, for no programming purposes. As far as the YES movement is concerned, the motives are quite simple from my point of view. Andrej Babiš is supposed to be Prime Minister, is the opinion of the YES movement, and the only one willing to accept it, or the only three parties willing to accept it, are the Social Democrats, the Communists and the SPD. At this price, that Andrej Babiš is Prime Minister, they have sacrificed many. They sacrificed the violation of the last post-November taboo that the Communists didn't belong in the government. You can say they're not in the coalition, or they are. They decided Miroslav Poche wasn't a minister. They have demands, and Jan Hamáček and Andrej Babiš are overtaking who will meet them first. They also paid with a clear left-wing program. I might ask: Where is the famous discount for employees of 500 crowns a month, 6,000 net for each employee, one of the pillars of the economic program of the ANO movement?. Did you find him in the government's programming statement? We didn't! I could ask where in the government's programming declaration is a reduction in employers' contributions of 2-5 percent according to economic developments. Zero! But to those employers on the altar of Andrej Babiš being Prime Minister, you're going to give the cancellation of the Karen age. But I'm still saying that I understand the motives, even though I disagree with them. It's very simple with the communists. For the first time in 29 years, they're in power. So they'll do anything to be there. I understand that, too. And then there's the third partner-- 269 days from the lithium meeting. Do you remember what you heard? Do you remember what fell on your head? You swallowed everything! You've taken it all! And that's how it's gonna be. Completely logical. Have you noticed the panic of the Social Democrats from the opposition? What do we do in opposition? Jesus, we'd get lost in there, we'd have to get in those government seats. It's the only way I can explain it. Let us remember the heroic conditions of the Social Democrats to support the government in the election campaign.: There can't be a criminally prosecuted person in the government, no matter who it is. Then the wise assembly decided that this was a very serious problem. Then it was a big problem, then it was a little problem, today it's not a problem anymore. [[Laughter from the right.]] After the negotiations between YES and ČSSD failed for the first time, I do not know exactly who came, but was the idea of a government, a one-color government, with the support of KSČM and SPD, which was rejected by the wider leadership of the ANO movement. I work with public sources, so if this is not exactly the case, then I apologize to my ANO colleagues for this possible inaccuracy. On top of that, the YES movement called on the Social Democrats to renegotiate. They've set three conditions that are unstoppable. First, if the Prime Minister is wrongfully convicted - that's a shift from the charge to the wrongful conviction - the government is ending. Done. Zero. Second condition: Tomio Okamura will not sit on umpir, Radim Fiala or Mr Koten will not chair committees. We insist, there's no train over it. Result: zero. The third condition was when everyone left when all ministers for the ČSSD resigned, about five, I think they have three today, but okay, so if all three of them, the government would resign. [[Laughter from the right]] The result is completely different, but logically: when one side leaves, the coalition contract ends. But that goes for every coalition contract. When one side leaves, the coalition contract just doesn't apply. Yet many of the social democracy - three times zero - call it an acceptable and hard-negotiated compromise. I'm their partner, so I'm happy, too, and I'd agree with them that it's a pretty good compromise and that we've moved a lot. [[Laughing from the right again.]] I don't know where, but don't forget the big concessions we made. The citizens' democrats will be a hard and principled opposition. Just like we say: hard and principled. We're not gonna fill holes in a hundred-one if you happen to be denied socialists or communists to vote for something. We will not support any bill that will introduce a new way of controlling the state of citizens, new fines, new sanctions without abolishing or restricting the elderly or others. We will not support any bill that will increase the administrative burden on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. We will not support any bill that will create a need for a higher number of state administrative staff. We will not support any bill on tax or levy obligations that would not substantially reduce taxes or levies. By the way, they're canceling a super gross salary like last four years again, and at the same time there's a tax bill - and there's a super gross wage break? Surprise - no! They've got three more, maybe eight years from now. We will not support any government bill that restricts the system of brakes and contradictions and the independence of the institutions on which the democratic rule of law stands. We will use all the political means and instruments we have in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate to push for an increase in net wages for all employees by reducing taxes in order to push for significant reductions in levies. That's what we had in the program, and now you're the left-wing party, the YES movement, it's already gone down, but we're gonna cancel the quarantine period. We're gonna push for big law enforcement in the law. We will do everything we can to reduce, significantly reduce national subsidies to private firms and investment incentives so that the money thus saved can be invested in the necessary infrastructure of the state. We will protect small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, we will protect self-government from other senseless responsibilities. We represent a clear and democratic alternative to the current government. In those five years, or almost five years, when I am in the House, and there are also members of the ANO movement, I know many of them. I have known some of them a lot longer than we have become Members, and many of them claim to be right-wing. Well, maybe now it's still true. I will just remind you of the names of some Members who will actively support your government today. Communists do not like it when we say that they are extreme left and that I should call them radical left. All right, I'll call it the radical left. Communists don't like it when I tell Stalinists to say conservatives. Okay, conservatives, in parentheses Stalinists, from the extreme left, in parentheses of the radical left: Miroslav Grebeníček, Vojtěch Filip, Stanislav Grospič. Tito and the others will be your partners from now on. Don't even think about saying you're right-wing politicians! And that responsibility will be borne by others, not just by those sitting in the Chamber of Deputies. Mayor Brno Petr Vokřál likes to be called right-wing politics. Vice-President of a movement that will form a government with communists. Mr. Mayor of Ostrava Macura also likes to refer to himself as a right-wing man. 42-43 percent of the Social Democrats voted against the emergence of this government - for various reasons. I didn't hear any voice from the YES movement, really, not one that would mind the Communists' participation in the government. Not one! No right-wing man, no right-wing politician, can vote for a government built on the voices of communists. So if that's what you thought of yourself today, and you thought someone would believe you, no one will believe you from now on! And I say to everyone who will vote in the local and senate elections in the fall, remember who supports the communists, and don't trust them to be right-wing. They just aren't! And I will end my performance with what you could hear around that house today and yesterday hours and hours: shame, shame, shame!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u28	The next one is entered in the debate by Mr Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u29	Good morning. I promise I won't perform again tonight. As the debate is coming to an end, and I do not see that some members of the government, and those I addressed yesterday with a request for a statement, I am here again asking whether the Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, might be answered by President Vojtěch Filip, on the part of Mr Vojtěch Vojtěch Filip, for what I asked. At least the two basic things that mean the concept of humility and trust to them. [[0.40 hours]] However, I would still like to make such a short comment. At nine o'clock today I had a debate on Czech Radio on Sixty with Vice-President of ČSSD, Mr. Governor of Netolický. Here I am trying to ask the President of the ČSSD, or one of his colleagues, if they had explained to me what he meant when we spoke at the Czech Radio today, and I criticized today's speech by the Prime Minister and Vice-President Netolický to me and, above all, the audience, voters and citizens of the Czech Republic, by not taking the Prime Minister's words quite seriously, that he did not really mean it today, that it was a speech that he failed. We are discussing the trust of the government here, and the vice-chairman of the coalition party tells the nation that the words of the Prime Minister for whose government the MPs for the ČSSD today have to express their confidence are not to be taken seriously? Would it not be worth a comment, Mr President Hamáček, if you had responded in any way? Because it was a serious announcement. [[President: By me, please.]] I mentioned it, through Mr President. Please, Mr. Chairman, listen to me when I speak. Thank you. Then there is a lot in the media space, and it is also said today that this government has only the tolerance of communists. Social Democrats stress this a lot that it is not a government with the support of communists, but it is only tolerance. If we're here in a few minutes each for ourselves on our own terms and consciences to say whether we are expressing our trust in this government and saying whether we are in favour of a proposal or against a proposal, the answer is either yes or no. There's no other option. All of you who say yes, from all three sides equally and equally support this government. You don't tolerate it. Support! One last thing. It was said here from the mouth of the Communist Party that they have no skeletons in the modern history of the Czech Republic. You don't have any skeletons in your closets. They're in your cemeteries!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u30	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. No one would accuse me of having a very warm relationship with the ODS, yet I would like to thank Mr Stanjur, through the President, for a nice summary mostly of the period of the end of the previous government, Andrej Babiš, along with social democracy. When I listened to the questions today that were aimed at the government sitting here, and actually only the few outputs that were behind us from that space, and I listened to what was being said in plenary, I would like to point out that times are changing. These elections were already quite significant in the fact that people who did not vote historically came and people who, for example, voted for the first time in these elections. And I'm about 40 years old, too, and I was born when the Internet actually started. And, for example, Mr Stanjura quoted the stenographs here. The politicians have been used to these people, the voters, putting it on TV like this, and that's how they smack it into the paper, those people read it. So, of course, the generations of my parents, or even the 50s, are not accustomed to entering a password into the search engine and seeing who has turned, who has promised, whether they have fulfilled it, how politicians treated each other when they were together in the government just before the election, and how they acted when they needed to get back into that government. The knowledge society I was talking about, it's just a society of free, digitally connected people sharing that information. And I don't think that society is going to consume the half-truths and the politics that are going on here for a long time, and those people are going to tell themselves that. And I also thank people who, thanks to the pirát and, for example, the new young people in politics, look at the House meetings and copy the records on YouTube channels, because as the next generation and the next generation will come, so simply the policy style that we are witnessing here today and which we have witnessed a significant time when the Czech Republic has not yet directed to a learning society, so those people will tell themselves and in those other elections it will manifest itself. And I hope this is the last term we have to look at this kind of policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u32	I thank you and ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. A point of fact, President Kalousek. [[The noise in the hall.]] President Kalousek withdraws his point of order. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate? It's not like that. I'm done with the debate. It is recalled that according to § 85 para. 1 and 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shall be put to the Government by name on a motion for trust. In order to adopt a resolution on the declaration of confidence to the Government, the consent of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will now ask the designated verifiers of this meeting, Mrs Jana Černochová and Mrs Kateřina Valachová, to take their seats at the table. And we're going straight to the vote. First we proceed according to § 74 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to draw up the name of the Member from whom the vote will take place in alphabetical order. The examination of tickets with the names of Members has been carried out. [[The draw.]] I was the first to draw for Mr Tomáš Martínek's MPs. It is recalled that according to § 74 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be formulated by the Member 'for a proposal' or 'against a proposal'. If he abstains, he will say, "I am abstaining." A different speech by the Member shall be regarded as a delay in voting. Wait a minute, I'll adjust my list. [[After a while:]] I would, of course, like every Member to say its position loud enough so that I can repeat it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Of course, it is customary to stand up for this speech in the House. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies is expressing confidence in the government'. Now I will summon you, and I beg you to speak. Initiating vote. First Mr Martínek Tomáš: Against the proposal. Thank you. Martinů Jaroslav: Against the proposal. Maříková Karla: Against the proposal. He's excused. Excellent. Matušovská Květa: For the design. Matyášová Eva: For a proposal. Mauritzová Ilona: Against the proposal. Maxová Radka: Proposition. Melková Marcela: Proposition. Mihola Jiří: Against the proposal. Michálek Jakub: Against the proposal. Munzar Vojtěch: Against the proposal. [[0.50 hours]] Nacher Patrik: For a proposal. Němcová Miroslava: Against the proposal. vludový Ivana: Against the proposal. Novák Marek: For a proposal. Specialist Monika: For a proposal. Okamura Tomio: Against the proposal. Okleštěk Ladislav: For a proposal. Onderka Roman: Proposition. Ondráček Zdeněk: Not present. Ožanová, Jane Zuzana: Proposition. Pastuchová Jana: For a proposal. Pávek Petr: He is excused. I'm sorry, Mr Pávek's apology has arrived - for personal reasons. Pawlas Daniel: Proposition. Pekarová Adamová Markéta: Against the proposal. Peksa Mikuláš: Against the proposal. Petrtýl František: For a proposal. Pikal Vojtěch: Against the proposal. plzák Pavel: For a proposal. He submitted Zdeněk: Against the proposal. Eat Ivo: Proposition. Polanský Ondřej: Against the proposal. Jan: Against the proposal. Pour Milan: Proposition. Pražák David proposal. profant Ondřej: Against the proposal. procházkový Věra: For a proposal. pustějovskýějovský Pavel: For a proposal. Rais Karel: Proposition. Rakušan Vít: Against the proposal. Ratiborský Michal: For a proposal. Richter Jan: Proposition. Richterová Olga: Against the proposal. Rozner Miloslav: Against the proposal. He Rozvoral Radek: Against the proposal. Rutová Miloslava: Pro proposition. Růžička Pavel: For a proposal. Řehounek Jan: For a proposal. sadovskýý Petr: For a proposal. Schiller Jan: Proposition. Schwarzenberg Karel: Against the proposal. sklenák Roman: For the design. Skopeček Jan: Against the proposal. Staněk Antonín: For a proposal. Staněk Pavel: For the proposal. Stanjura Zbyněk: Against the proposal. Stropnický Martin: Pro pro proposition. strýček Jiří: Proposition. Svoboda Bohuslav: Against the proposal. Šafránková Lucie: Against the design. Šlechtová Karla: Proposition. Španěl Lubomír: Against the proposal. špičák Julius: For a proposal. Štolpa David: Proposition. For a proposal. Třešňák Petr: Against the proposal. tureček Karel: For a proposal. Vácha František: Against the proposal. Valachová Kateřina: Proposition. Válek Vlastimil: Against the proposal. Valenta Jiří: Proposition. Válková Helena: Proposition. Ventruba Jiří: Against the design. Veselý Ondřej: For a proposal. Vích Radovan: Against the proposal. Vildumetzová Jana: Pro pro proposition. Vojtěch Adam: For a proposal. Free Jan: For a proposal. volný Lubomír: Against the proposal. Vondráček Radek: For a proposal. [[A note from the diaper.]] To fulfil my duties, I repeat: Vondráček Radek: Pro pro proposition. vondrák Ivo: Proposition. Vostrá Miloslava: Pro pro proposition. Vrána Petr: For a proposal. Vrecionová Veronika: Against the proposal. [[The President read Vrecionková - a notification from the diaper to the right shape.]] Vrecion, I'm sorry, typo. Excellent Marek: Against the proposal. He deleted Tomáš: Against the proposal. She picked Rostislav: For a proposal. zahradník Jan: Against the design. Lubomír: Proposition. Zlesák Radek the design. žáček Pavel: Against the proposal. Klaus Václav: Against the proposal. I'm watching... [[Voices from the diaper: Adamec!]] We're rescheduleing the pages, one second... Adamec Ivan: Against the proposal. Thank you. I'm sorry again. Adámková Věra: For the proposal. [[Request from the diaper: Repeat Adams.]] Adamec Ivan: Against the proposal. aulický Jírovcová Hana: Proposition. Babiš Andrej: Proposition. Babišová Andrea: Proposition. Balaštíková Margita: Proposition. Balcarová Dana: Against the proposal. Bartoň Lukáš: Against the proposal. Bartoš Ivan: Against the proposal. Bartošek Jan: Against the proposal. Bauer Jan: Against the proposal. Baxa Martin: Against the proposal. Jiří: For a proposal. Beitl Petr: Against the proposal. Bělica Josef: For a proposal. Bělobrádek Pavel: Against the proposal. Benda Marek: Against the proposal. Benešík Ondřej: Against the proposal. Berkovec Stanislav: For a proposal. Birke Jan: Proposition. [[1.00 hours]] Blaha Stanislav: Against the proposal. For a proposal. Blažek Pavel: Against the proposal. Bojko Marian: Against the proposal. Brabec Richard: Proposition. For a proposal. brzobohatý-rich Andrea: For a proposal. Bžoch Jaroslav: For a proposal. Montenegro's Lukáš: Against the proposal. Černochová Jana: Against the proposal. Černý Alexander: Proposition. Monika Červíčková: For the design. Čižinský Jan: Against the proposal. For a proposal. Dolínek Petr: For a proposal. Dostálová Klára: Proposition. Dražilová Lenka: Proposition. Dvořák Jaroslav: Against the proposal. Elfmark František: Against the proposal. Faltýnek Jaroslav: For design. Farhan Kamal: Proposition. farský Jan: Against the proposal. feranec Milan: For a proposal. Feri Dominik: Against the proposal. Ferjenčík Mikuláš: Against the proposal. Fiala Petr: Against the proposal. Fiala Radim: Against the proposal. Fialová Eva: Proposition. Filip Vojtěch: For the proposal. Foldyna Jaroslav: Pro pro proposition. Fridrich Stanislav: For a proposal. Gajdůšková Alena: For a proposal. Gazdík Petr: Against the proposal. Golasowský Pavla: Against the proposal. Grebeníček Miroslav: For a proposal. Grospič Stanislav: Pro pro proposition. Hájek Josef: For the design. Hamáček Jan: Proposition. Hanzel Tomáš: Proposition. hnilička Milan: For a proposal. Holík Jaroslav: Against the proposal. Holomčík Against the proposal. hrnčíř Jan: Against the proposal. Hyťhová Tereza: Against the proposal. Inventor Milan: Absent. Chvojka Jan: Proposition. Jáč Ivan: For the proposal. Janda Jakub: Against the proposal. Janulík Miloslav: For a proposal. Jarošová Monika: Against the proposal. Jelínek Pavel: Against the proposal. Jiránek Martin: Against the proposal. Juchelka Aleš: Proposition. Juránek Stanislav: Against the proposal. Jurečka Marian: Against the proposal. Juříček Pavel: For a proposal. Kalous Adam: Proposition. Kalousek Miroslav: Against the proposal. Kaňkovský Vít: Against the proposal. Kasal David: Proposition. There. Let's do it again. Klaus Václav: Against the proposal. Kobza Jiří: Against the proposal. Kohoutek Jiří: Against the proposal. Kohoutek Tomáš: For a proposal. Kolářík Lukáš: Against the proposal. Collo-Return Martin: For a proposal. koníček Vladimír: For design. František Kopřiva: Against the proposal. Kořanová Barbora: For the proposal. Koten Radek: Against the proposal. kott Josef: For the design. Kováčik Pavel: For a proposal. Kovářová Věra: Against the proposal. Kozlová Lenka: Against the proposal. králíček Robert: Proposition. Karel: Against the proposal. Krutáková Jana: Against the proposal. Kubíček Roman: For a proposal. Kubík Jan: For the proposal. Kupka Martin: Against the proposal kytýr Jaroslav: Pro pro proposition. Langšádlová Helena: Against the proposal. Levová Jana: Against the proposal. Lipavský Jan: Against the proposal. Luzar Leo: Proposition. Majerová Zahradníková Zuzana: Against the proposal. Little Tatiana: Proposition. Mališ Přemysl: For the proposal. There. I ask whether all Members have been read, or whether there are any doubts about the course of the vote. If that's not the case, I'll ask the verifiers to tell me what time is necessary... Within one hour of 20 minutes, we will now give time to find out the results of the vote. Interrupting to 13 minutes until 01.20 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to settle in your seats and keep your voice down. [[Members come into the hall and settle down.]] One more time, please, quiet in the room. I'll ask for the appearance of the designated verifiers. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u34	Mr President, Dear Government, honourable Members, honourable Members. 196 Members voted. The need for a vote of confidence for the government was 99, for a proposal of 105 votes, against a proposal of 91.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u35	We've had our round of applause. I am still willing to say that the Chamber of Deputies has expressed confidence in the government. Under normal circumstances, we have completed the programme of the 17th meeting, but we have changed to Thursday. This is a proper meeting where there are always interpelations on Thursday, as my colleague Pikal warned me. For purely formal reasons, it would be appropriate for us to vote on the elimination of oral interventions, and then I could end the meeting. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Stanjur, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u36	I don't know who's giving you advice, Mr. Chairman. It is Thursday, but the day is not yet over. First of all. The sitting day of Thursday shall begin at 9.00 on Thursday in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. I think you can say the meeting's over. And there's no way to rule out oral inhalations. Because if we say there's a meeting on Thursday, there's got to be an interpelation. But it still takes a day of meeting, which was launched on Wednesday. And the meeting day on Thursday starts at 9:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u37	I am based on a consultation with the organizational department and with the opinion of the legislative department. I take that as an objection. I think that, for formal reasons, we should take one vote on the elimination of the oral question, and then I would end the meeting. Please, I'm not resisting discussion, but I'm going to take a vote anyway, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u38	Prime Minister, I know it's too late. But voting to eliminate the point of oral intervention is an incredibly dangerous vote. Then you can vote at each meeting. On Thursday at 13:00, you will put a vote at each meeting on the elimination of oral interventions and the opposition will never get here again. I really see that as an impossible solution. Step up to what President Stanjura recommends. Wednesday's meeting continues, Thursday's meeting has not begun, but I see the vote to exclude the point of oral intervention from a proper meeting as an extremely dangerous precedent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u39	Since it's almost 1:30 at night, I'd hate to waste my time. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u40	We won't lose time, don't worry. I would like to thank you if there are still employees - medical services, protective services and so on - to all those who have secured our late-night meeting. And this time it is weird, but I agree with colleague Stanjura that the day of Wednesday is really ending. We have had this dispute in the past period and we have brought it in precisely so that we do not have to argue whether or not interpelation can be eliminated. That is why we said that the meeting day ends with the end of the program, and the next one does not start until 9:00 in the morning. I ask that this fact be taken into account, and if no one questions it, then let us say goodbye in a nice way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-12-ps2017-017-02-000-000.u41	Well, thank you. I think we could work this out. Does none of the Presidents object that we end the meeting? I don't see anyone objecting to this kind of procedure. So I'm saying that we've discussed the agenda for the 17th meeting, and I'm ending this 17th meeting. I wish you all good night.
