ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-016-052.u1	52. Proposal by Members of Marek Výborný, Pavel Bělobrádek, Marian Jurečka, Jan Bartošek, Pavla Golasowská, Aleš Juchelka and others for the issue of constitutional law amending Resolution No. 2/1993 Coll., Bureau of the Czech National Council on the Declaration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms as a Part of the Constitutional Order of the Czech Republic, as amended /German press 211/ - First reading The Government's position was delivered as a House press 211/1. prosit have Mr Marek, Mr Výborný, present the proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, or maybe another one of the plaintiffs, but we have Mr. Výborný here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-016-052.u2	Dear Vice-President, Minister, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, first of all, let me thank you for your helpfulness and for agreeing to merge the debate with the two presses number 50 and 52. I consider it reasonable, because although each press is heading towards a different law, it solves the matter from a slightly different point of view, however, in substance, it is very close to things. Let me now present to you the already announced proposal, if I simplify it, the amendments to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The proposal itself is very simple. In Article 32, which now reads: Parenthood and family are under the protection of the law. Special protection of children and adolescents is guaranteed. This is Article 32 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of 1. As plaintiffs, we want to take action. Article 4 (1) (a) 32 to put together only seven words, and the paragraph would be as follows: Parenthood, family, and marriage as a bond between men and women are under the protection of the law. Special protection of children and adolescents is guaranteed. That remains without any change. Let me now justify the proposed amendment to the Constitutional Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The proposed amendment to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms aims to complement the protection of the family at the level of constitutional order enshrined in Article 32 of the Title of the Fourth Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms on the protection of one of the fundamental building elements of a complete family, namely the marriage of men and women. The need to give special recognition and constitutional protection to the marriage union of a man and woman as one of the cornerstones of society in today's turbulent times, in which we encounter ubiquitous efforts to relativize and tear down patterns, no matter how well proven, more recent than ever. It is therefore most desirable that the true nature, meaning and importance of this union reflect the document that anchors the highest and most sacred values on which our society and our legal order stand. This document is precisely the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The explicit constitutional protection of marriage is not an unknown institute in the history of the Czech constitutional order, since it was already contained in the provisions of Section 126 of the Constitutional Charter of the Czechoslovak Republic from 1920. Let me remind you here a certain symbolism of the fact that the discussion of this proposal is opened just on the day that we just remembered a hundred years ago from the first meeting of the National Assembly of the Czechoslovak Republic, which was then adopted in this hall on 29 February 1920 by the proper Constitution of the Czechoslovak Republic, where this anchoring of the protection of marriage has already been mentioned. Also in terms of international comparison, this is not a unique adjustment, which is particularly true of Central European space. The Constitutional Protection of Marriage as a bond between men and women provides, for example, the article "L" of the Hungarian Constitution, also Article 18 of the Polish Constitution and Article 41 of the Slovak Constitution. Thus, all three Visegrad Four states, apart from the Czech Republic, already have this in their constitutional order. A similar provision recognising marriage as a union between men and women is also present in the constitutional order of Croatia, Latvia, Lithuania and other states. For example, the Italian constitution also declares marriage the foundation of the family. It can be concluded, among other things, that the Czech Republic is currently the only state in the Visegrad group whose constitutional order of protection of marriage as a union between men and women does not yet reflect, as I said a moment ago. Family and family life, by its very nature, belong to the inherently private and autonomous sphere of human life. At the same time, however, the family is irreplaceably and essentially exclusively fulfilling several functions of such importance that without it, life in human society as a whole is not at all conceivable. These functions, which the family naturally performs, include reproductive functions, ensuring reproduction and generation of the population, socialization functions, ensuring universal child education, socio-economic functions, i.e. the functioning of the family as a self-contained and self-sufficient economic unit, the function of regeneration and support, the essence of which is mutual belonging, providing emotional background, emotional and material support between family members. Family is built on mutual love. The family therefore necessarily represents the basic unit of the company and the irreplaceable element of the triad: individual - family - society. Any historical attempt to demolish one of the functions of the family and transfer it to another entity is known for its harmful consequences for individuals, especially for the children concerned, and for society. From these assumptions comes the role of the state in relation to families. The general declaration of human rights in Article 16 (2) shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 notes - I quote: "The family is a natural and fundamental unit of society and is entitled to protection from society and the state." End of quote. It is the mission of the state to also respect the autonomy and internal life of the family and, at the same time, to recognise the family, to provide protection for it, to assist it in difficulties and, in particular, to universally promote the achievement of its form, which best corresponds to the proven and experienced ideal of a functional family fulfilling its private and social roles naturally. The core of such a family is the marriage of a man and a woman. This family resemblance has been firmly anchored in our civilization circuit without the slightest exaggeration for thousands of years. Its undisputable roots are both Roman law, from which comes the most classic definition of the marriage bond of a man and a woman, and the gradual promotion of a monogamous union in ancient Israel and the presence of a man and woman's marriage in the basic code of Christianity, that is, the Bible. The legal institute of marriage, a lasting union between one woman and one man, has been taken over as a matter of course and incorporated into all major European codifications of private law arising from natural rights and/or natural rights. Roman law doctrines in the 19th and 20th centuries and can certainly be viewed as part of natural law. This quite extraordinary situation of the legal institute of marriage ensures that this perception and definition of the concept of marriage, i.e. A lasting union between one woman and one man, despite some tendencies over the past few years, has been deeply socially and legally verified and rooted. [[16.10 hours]] A family formed on the basis of marriage has increased conditions for health and full development. The marriage of a man and woman typically has the potential to fulfill all the main functions of the family, and especially to bring the next generation into the world and raise it in irreplaceable and irreplaceable mother and fatherly love and pattern, in an environment providing at least some guarantees of stability and longevity. Any other form of family coexistence cannot be able to do so to such extent. Marriage, therefore, also comes from a state that applies for the protection of the family. The legal institute of marriage also plays an irreplaceable role in terms of the effective exercise of state policy, in particular the one aimed at supporting families. It is a legitimate requirement by the State that the funds spent on social security and support for families should, in the first place, be directed towards an environment in which there are legal guarantees of its stability, as they can best and most effectively fulfil their purpose in it. Such guarantees are especially provided by a marriage - based family. It is also the task of a state of utmost importance to address favourable demographic developments. The situation in this regard is not entirely optimal in the Czech Republic. The Czech Statistical Office for 2016 lists the number 1.63 as the average number of children per woman. On this point, the Czech Statistical Office notes - I quote: Even this level of fertility does not ensure simple reproduction of the population in the long term. For this would require fertility of at least 2.1 child per woman. This was the last time in the Czech Republic in 1980. - I consider this to be a very alarming statement and may have a long-term impact on the whole Czech society. The State's instruments on this issue can, by their very nature, only be indirect. It is a consistent family policy based on supporting the emergence of, as far as possible, full and stable families, where marriage is usually the cornerstone of a building block. On the level of factivity, for a number of different objective and subjective reasons, dependent and independent of the will of the participants, all families can never reach a form that is understood as its ideal. A family based on a man's and a woman's marriage is truly a unique ideal, and we must assume that it is not always for those objective, subjective reasons that this ideal will be achieved. This is also true of a marriage whose great potential often cannot be fulfilled for many reasons. However, this cannot mean that the State is to resign from its role in setting standards of conduct. In this case, the content and purpose of the proposed standard is not any sanctioning of those who do not meet its objectives, but, on the contrary, we are going a positive way, we want to promote good practice and be helpful. The goal, the ambition, is to create boundaries, to show the direction our society is taking. The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms is of the nature of a legal declarative nature, or any changes do not bring about adjustments that would in fact be for sanctioning or something similar, but set the general direction of our society. If the family is living today, the Czech Republic, apart from the crisis and the erosion process, is showing this, for example. the fact that in the population there is an overall increase in single and single persons and, on the contrary, the decline in married and married persons; Once again, this is based on the numbers of the Czech Statistical Office: although the most numerous persons living in marriage are still in number, their share in the population has already fallen below one half and is further declining - it is not the role of the State to resign, but the more and more intensively to support it, including the establishment of formulas, patterns and the setting of principles which are desirable for the functioning of the family. This amendment is also heading towards this goal. I would also like to clearly reject the criticism that, in the case of... or that, during the family crisis that I am talking about right now, someone other than ourselves who lives in a heterosexual marriage could. Indeed, there is no way that a homosexual community is responsible for the family crisis. That really is complete nonsense. It's our own fault for the family crisis. And it really is a thrown glove to us who live in the traditional marriage of men and women in families. Protecting a man's and a woman's marriage in the framework of a constitutional order, which is part of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, is, in particular, an instruction to the legislator, as well as to the courts and other public authorities, to contribute their activities as best as possible to the promotion and undisturbed functioning of the legal institute of marriage. Marriage as a union between a man and a woman is certainly a conservative value, but it is not an institution that survives. In 2017, nearly 53,000 couples in the Czech Republic were married. As such, this institute has the nature of privilege. Its purpose is not to treat the relationships of two loving persons. The Czech Republic is not a valueless state, the protection of marriages in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms can thus also express the recognition of marriage as an exceptional and incorruptible value corresponding to its importance and degree of protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen, so much to justify otherwise very brief adjustments to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Our proposal is logically based on a debate that is conducted not only on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, including in public hearings before the Committee on Petitions, or in various seminars and conferences, but also in response to a debate in the public space. We believe that we are not discussing minority rights, but we are primarily discussing values. And value politics is something that doesn't often come on the agenda here in the House. I believe that this is why it is also important to see how many Members have entered you in the debate, because the issues of the values on which our society, our civilizations are based, must be expressed and considered. I believe that the debate over both the press and the press will lead to this. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-016-052.u3	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, too. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Věra Procházková. And I'd like to ask the left side of the hall for more peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-016-052.u4	Good evening, everyone. I would first read the Government's statement on this press and then my news report. The proposed change is clearly a response to the current efforts to open the institution of marriage to same-sex persons. It follows from the content of the explanatory memorandum that the proposed amendment to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms is, among other things, that a legally recognized marriage must consist of a union between one man and one woman. On the contrary, the Government by its resolution of 22 June 2018 No. 414 agreed with the draft law aimed at opening the institution of marriage to persons of the same sex, see House Press No. 201. The Government believes that any amendment to the Charter must be treated with restraint. The catalogue of rights and freedoms enshrined in the Charter should not be used to block the rights of certain groups. The Government also states that, in its view, the aforementioned objective, namely that a legally recognized marriage must consist of only one man and one woman's union, nor will it be achieved by establishing a general declaration in the Charter. The Government states that it should not be a formal change to the resolution of the Czech National Council Bureau, but it should be a change to the Charter itself. The proposal also shows other legislative technical shortcomings, which is why the government has opposed this amendment. Amendment to Act No. 2 of 1993 from members of KDU-ČSL and others are essentially a response to this previous standard No. 201 about allowing a gay community to marry. That's in a nutshell. [[16.20 hours]] But people's society is evolving. We see that towards the liberal concept of the world. It prefers the right of an individual in a civilized world, but it moves in a society governed by laws, and those laws are usually agreed by society. What is important, in my opinion, is that it does not hinder the choice of choice. Many people today live so-called single or in a registered partnership or, as they say, in a pile. When I searched for why, I often got the answer that it was just convenient. So people can choose how to live. But there's a group of gay people who can't choose. Marriage as status is denied to them, see the words of the petitioner to the previous standard. The proposal by colleagues from KDU-ČSL to guarantee in the Charter that marriage is a union between a man and a woman narrows it down. Nowadays, however, marriage is seen as a statute. Basically, it's a technical standard, and it should be made possible for all people. This is my opinion. In the end, I'll take a little recommendation. Let us do our utmost to give couples a reason to marry if we think marriage is better than others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-020-10-016-052.u5	Thank you, too. I'm asking my colleagues at the news desk if they want to make room for you, too. However, we will now move on to an open debate that is merged.
