ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u1	7. Government bill amending certain laws in the field of taxation and some other laws /house print 206/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the draft bill will be presented by Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and I will also ask the rapporteur of the Jiří Dolejš Guarantee Committee to take the position at the rapporteur's table, because at first reading we have ordered this press to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered to us as House prints 206/1 and 206/2. I'll ask the House for peace. At the same time, I will give the floor to the Minister of Finance, who is certainly ready for the opening word. Madam Secretary, please. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] And not yet. I'll wait a little while longer until the O.R. calms down and there's a decent enough environment for the proposed law. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief because I have already presented a draft law amending certain tax laws in detail at first reading. So I will merely sum up that a total of ten laws, nine tax laws and a related amendment to the insolvency law are contained in the bill. It is, on the one hand, the Income Tax Act, where the implementation of the ATAD Directive, where the notification of exempt dividends and other similar income, is the central subject of the amendment. Furthermore, we are amending the Gaming Tax Act, which is more of a technical amendment responding to the needs of practice. As regards the VAT Act, we implement European directives, vouchers and eCommerce. It is a response to European case law, such as the adjustment of the Institute for the correction of the amount of the tax in the case of the debtor's insolvency claim and other changes responding to the needs of practice. Furthermore, we are amending, perhaps the most important amendment is the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, where we respond, on the one hand, to EU legislation by adapting the provisions on labelling tobacco products, to the amendment of the nomenclature code for mineral oils following the decision of the European Commission and, in particular, to taxation of heated tobacco products and other changes responding to the needs of practice. [[There's noise in the room.]] We also technically amend the Customs Act, where a certain amendment is introduced, which responds to the needs of practice, and introduce a general anti-abuse rule, the so-called GAAR, into the tax system. The amendment to the Act on International Cooperation in Tax Administration responds to the amendment of the interpretation of the DAC 2 and DAC 4. The Financial Administration Act regulates tax analytical records, where we try to improve data protection from control reports and EET and adjust specifics in relation to the Civil Service Act. The Customs Administration Act extends the use of cover documents for gambling and EET and the amendment to the Insolvency Act follows the amendment to the VAT Act in the field of the Institute for the correction of the amount of the tax in the case of the debtor's claim in insolvency. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed for 1 January 2019 with the exception of certain provisions which should take effect either on or after the date of the Act's announcement, i.e. 15 February 2019 and 1 January 2021. However, in view of the time remaining until the end of the year, I welcome the amendment adopted by the Committee on Budgets, on which we have cooperated, which includes a change of basic effectiveness for the first day of the calendar month following the date of publication of this Act and the setting of special effectiveness according to the needs of the various provisions, such as the effectiveness of the provisions implementing European legislation, the implementation period of which expires on 31 December 2018 on the date of publication of this Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u3	I thank the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Jiří Dolejš, to inform us about the discussion of the proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u4	Yes, thank you for your word. If I may, I would inform you that the Committee on Budgets has discussed the proposal with a number of amendments. It is about seven complexes, which are the first to increase the limit of income from dependent activity on withholding tax, another is the change in deduction to support research and development, certainly also an interesting topic. Another proposal is to abolish the new definition of the subsidy on the price. You may recall that at first reading, we discussed this matter in detail because of the concerns of the Union of Towns and Municipalities and certain local authorities. Another proposal that has been passed by the Committee on Budgets is to complement the definition of economic activity. The next order, I believe, for the fifth time, is to supplement the transitional provision with regard to the deduction of the tax in proportion to the broadcasters, that is the problem of the public media. Another proposal is the liberation of beer, these are samples, not production and mass exhibitions of beer. And the last complex of proposals is the restructuring of the effective part in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, as the Minister spoke of it. So that is the proposal that has been passed through the budget committee resolution. Otherwise, I can say, overall, that the debate over this press was not contradictory in terms of what is wrong with the press, we can, of course, reproduce here the discussion on the subject of various tax philosophies, but the proposal itself is the bearer of positive changes and, in essence, just waiting for it to be discussed. Even though we are in a slight delay in time, I believe that we will successfully close the second reading today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the intelligence report. I am opening a general debate. Before signing up, President Miroslav Kalousek is registered with priority rights. I'll give him my word. Mrs. Golasowská will be ready. [[There's noise in the room.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already tabled two amendments to the Committee on Budgets, which have not received a majority. They're still gonna have fun on the first bench.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u7	Mr. Chairman, I understand. Once again, I will ask my colleagues from left to right, from right to left, to conduct discussions, including your party colleagues and friends, outside the O.R., so that you have sufficient space to make your proposal in peace. Not yet. I'll wait! I see that there is excessive noise and that it would be appropriate for anyone to be given a word to make their word so that everyone understands it so that stenographers can record it at all. It's a particularly hard job for them. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u8	Thank you. I apologize to my colleagues in front of me because it's a little unfair, it doesn't matter in those side benches, but it's almost out of control in front of the speaker, so thank you for your understanding. I would like to put forward two amendments which have not received a majority on the Committee on Budgets, which is why I will again allow myself to address the entire Chamber of Deputies with them. These are not amendments that would suddenly be a populist blow from the sky, because the opposition, of course, has always enjoyed, whoever is with the government, increasing the benefits or reducing taxes. However, in this case, I believe that this is a fair proposal that only returns the agreement that was once made to the public, which puts right the unfair criticism that is being presented to this day. This concerns, firstly, the so-called solidarity premium. The solidary premium was approved by law in 2012 with effect from 1. 1. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market and amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market, and amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 and Commission Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market, and amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 309, 24.11.2009, p. 1). 12. 2015, i.e. for three years, with the need for consolidation measures over Since austerity affected all income groups in the Czech Republic by about 4%, they were actually all deprived of their income except for Members and Senators, there it was 20 percent, but I don't count, it was a marginal group, it was perfectly fair for that high income group to pay something we called a solidarity premium for that limited period. Let's face it, she was the second rate of tax. And the second tax rate was a politically unacceptable formulation, so it's called a solidarity premium in that law. [[17,00 hours]] What is crucial is that it was actually enacted for three years with a clear end to efficiency at the date when the necessary need for these consolidation measures was foreseen, at the date when the recovery of economic growth was foreseen, which also happened. To 1. 1. Indeed, 2015 has renewed economic growth and pensions have started to valorise, and wages in the state sector have started to valorize. Although no one assumed that the state sector was going to swell too, but that those salaries would start valorizing, that was supposed to be, that is, there was no reason for that solidarity premium anymore. However, before this transitional date came into force, the new House, because there were early elections, and therefore, in particular, members of the Czech Social Democratic Party and the ANO movement, abolished this transitional provision, and left it to one thing. That means, on the one hand, I, as the then Minister of Finance, was under overwhelming criticism that I raised the tax at the time, but no one is saying that the measure with which it was limited in time was abolished and that you kept the money to date compared with the previous public agreement. That means from 1. 1. 2016 you raised those taxes because they weren't supposed to be this high. The fact that the solidarity premium, or if you want the second rate of value added tax, is really no longer the will of the political forces that introduced it at the time, means ODS, TOP 09 and Public Affairs. It is the will of the political forces of ČSSD, YES and KSČM. And I think it would be fair if, given that we are the addressees of this criticism and that you do not hesitate to criticize at any time that it has happened to return it to the original position with which it was approved in 2012. We're three years out of date. Let's cancel the solidarity premium. This is the first amendment. The second amendment concerns the agreement with the public as well as the dramatic criticism of the opposition, and it is the rates of value added tax. Let's go back to 2010. In 2010, the value added rates were 20 per cent of the basic rate, 10 per cent of the reduced rate. There were only two rates. Then, in 2011, there was approval of pension reform, the introduction of a second pillar, which assumed that everyone would be able to contribute 3% less to the basic pillar, but that 3% would have to save for itself and add 2% more of its own. This was the basis of the first step in pension reform. The 3% to the first pillar logically meant some kind of income loss, the unionists like to call it a retirement fund. That wasn't any freaking out. The money remained in the pension system, except in the second compulsory pillar, not the mandatory pillar, but whoever volunteered to go to the second pillar had to save it there. And the money stayed in the pension system. Nobody did anything wrong. But the first pillar was weakened. To compensate for the failure of the first pillar, value added tax was increased at the reduced rate from 10 per cent to 14. [[rate]] So the first VAT adjustment was from twenty-ten to twenty-four in direct connection with pension reform. What happened to this measure? ANO and ČSSD have abolished pension reform in the second pillar, which I would forgive if they had a better solution. But they don't have any, they can only interfere, they can't design anything new. Well, the 4 percent reduced rate, they kept it. They're betting away from the citizens. That means it was an extremely unfair measure. If those parties had agreed to do so fairly, they would have canceled the second pillar and returned the reduced rate by 4 percent, because it was related. They did this extraordinary hypocrisy to the public that they canceled the second pillar, but they kept the 14 percent. We can use it for presents, for fare discounts, and for a lot of other useless things. We'll keep the money, we'll keep the money from you, and the taxes, we didn't raise it, the ugly government did it back then. But the ugly government has raised them in custody for pension reform. You guys canceled, but you kept the money. So that was the first step. The second step was to consolidate measures exactly the same as the solidarity premium, that is, at a time of really large budget failures and to convince the markets that we are able to consolidate the balance sheets of public budgets, we have taken a three-year, time-limited measure that rates in both basic and reduced rates will arise by a percentage. [[Will they grow up?]] This means instead of twenty-four after the pension reform, twenty-one fifteen with effect until New Year 2016. That's where the efficiency ended, and the VAT was supposed to go down. What happened, ladies and gentlemen? Indeed, there has been a restoration of economic growth, you have inherited a relatively consolidated balance of public budgets, but you have abolished the time limit and kept the money. And to this day, you're charging twenty-one fifteen, even though the law didn't expect it to be that way. In addition, you have chosen a kind of cosmetic crutch that for about five or six marginal commodities you have made a second reduced rate, which, frankly, I consider to be a crime in terms of simplicity of the tax system, because having three VAT rates is really unnecessary and costly to manage. And once again, there's this breach of the public agreement that the increase was only for three years. So if I put it together with you guys canceling pension reform, and those three years have gone by, and we're three years past the deadline, then it would be fair to go back to that initial situation in 2010. This is where I address, in particular, the left-wing Members. I understand that left-wing Members will not want to give up a solidarity premium or, if you want, a second rate. After all, most of us remember that here until 2007, through all the right-wing governments that ruled here in 90, there weren't two rates or one personal income tax rate, but four, that there were four progressive rates up to 2007, and the first finance minister to push one of those four rates was a Kalousek. People don't remember that anymore. [[17.10 hours]] The fact is, the same Kalousek put the second rate in place for those three years, but only for those three years, and it's oddly remembered by everyone. I think it would be fair to remember that it was only for three years, but I understand that left-wing MPs don't want to hear this because for them the progressive tax is something like religion, they believe it. I also do not claim that we all have one truth in tax matters, and that is where I understand their position. But I turn to them in particular for value added tax, where simply clear policy of left-wing Members has always been the lowest possible direct taxes, which are reflected in prices, and as high and as progressive as possible - sorry, the lowest indirect taxes, which are reflected in prices, that is, VAT and excise duties, these are indirect taxes, they are reflected in prices and they are for all the same, and the highest income taxes. We have it on the contrary, we on the right. We believe that success and performance should not be punished, that is, we want the lowest possible direct taxes, but here I dare, for the reasons that I have mentioned, to propose indirect reductions in those taxes by 2010. Not because I think that the main priority is to reduce indirect taxes, I would see social security, but I understand that I'm moving in some political environment, but I want it back to the starting point of those measures that you've cancelled or that have passed away. And it would be fair to put them back there. And I am unable to understand one single leftist Member who wants indirect taxes that are reflected in prices to be left at an unwarranted rate today. So that is the point of my two amendments, which I will refer to in a detailed debate, where I dare ask to cancel the solidarity premium, which is not supposed to be here for three years, and to return the VAT rates to the starting state of 2010, when in the first variant or in one variant, that is the second one, I'm presenting the latter 2010, that is to say 20 per cent of the basic rate, 10 per cent of the reduced rate, and in the first variant that I would prefer given that eight years have gone by and you've been charging the three years for absolutely no reason, so it's going to give those people back at least one point at the basic rate, that is variant 19/10. But if you support any of these options, it will be fair to the public. If none of these options are accepted, you're just lying to the public because you're telling them something that's not true. You raised those taxes to 1. 1. 2016! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u9	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Before we continue, I state the apologies received by the President of the House, apologizing to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, from 16:40 to 18:00, and Mrs Olga Richterová, from 16:30 to 19:00 for family reasons. We will continue with Mrs Golasowská speech, Mr Ferjenčík will prepare himself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present my colleague Marian Jurečka's amendment concerning changes in the VAT rate for natural gas used for heating and heating hot water. We know that prices of all energy commodities have increased significantly this year. Coal by 35 %, oil by 40 %, electricity by 50 % and gas by almost 30 percent. The main cause of the rapid increase in electricity and gas prices is the jumping increase in emission allowances prices. Many big players have started buying significant volumes of allowances for their coal power plants this year. The price of allowances has risen from an average of EUR 7 per tonne to about EUR 21 per tonne today. Domestic heating using solid fuel boilers, more than 300,000, is one of the most important sources of air pollution in cities and municipalities. This share of pollution is up to 90%, mainly due to the use of old non-ecological boilers. According to estimates from the State Health Institute's 2016 report, 4,000 people will die prematurely in the Czech Republic as a result of the adverse effects of poor air quality. The solution to this condition is not only to ban these boilers according to the Ministry of Environment, but to offer households a transition to better fuel, which is certainly natural gas. When burning natural gas, there are no unburned particles such as dust, soot, which are currently the biggest problem of air purity in the Czech Republic. When burning natural gas, very dangerous dioxins and furans do not arise, as is the case with coal and biomass. Carbon monoxide and sulphur dioxide emissions are negligible. The emissions of nitrogen oxides and major greenhouse gas CO2 are between 25 and 50 per cent of emissions resulting from the combustion of coal, heating oil or biomass. For the reasons set out above, an amendment to change the VAT rate from 21 per cent to 10 per cent for natural gas used for heating and heating hot water in installations up to a capacity of 50 kW installed above is tabled. Consumers in this category are mainly households, which would certainly also like to switch to heating and heating of hot water by gas, but this is hindered by the current amount of VAT, among other things. There is a relatively massive natural gas distribution network in the Czech Republic. Unlike electricity, natural gas is stored and its supplies are technically very well handled. The trend of more rational use of natural gas in the world is also a massive introduction of microcogeneration for combined production of electricity and heat in households and small establishments. By gradually introducing smart grid elements, it could be achieved to produce electricity at peak times, which would certainly be a good profit for these small producers. This possibility of expanding electricity producers could also be an addition to the still unclear energy balance in the coming years, when, as it turns out, the Czech Republic is unclear as far as the energy concept goes. The replacement of old non-organic boilers by natural gas plants is a way to achieve higher air purity while providing people with an acceptable alternative. The VAT change threshold, which is set on equipment with a heat output of up to 50 kW, is due to the fact that the determination of a higher power value could lead to the purchase of boilers with a power output that would allow the separation of consumer groups from CZK, a phenomenon socially undesirable and liquidation for central heat supply. Therefore, the amendment reads: In Part Three, Article V, paragraph 267, the new paragraph 268, is added after the previous amendment, which reads: "In Annex 3a, the entry 1806, 1901, 2004, 2005, 2103, 2106 - Modified mill products and prepared mixtures for food preparation for people intolerant to gluten'. the following entry is added to the separate line: "2711 11 00, 2711 21 00 Natural gas used for heating and heating of hot water in installations up to a capacity of 50 kW installed above'. [[17.20 hours]] In Part Three of Article V, the present amendment point 268 and the following are being amended. I would also like to say that this amendment is read in the system as the number of House document 1773. In a detailed debate, I will still sign up for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u11	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Ferjenčík will also speak in the general debate, and President Chvojka will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to address in more detail the other amendments that I am proposing in relation to the abolition of the possibility of cover documents for the control of the EET or for the abolition of the GAAR provision, which I consider unnecessary, and I am going to concentrate on the main amendment that we are proposing here as a Pirate Club, and we are presenting this in cooperation with the ODS Members, namely my colleague, Jan Skopeček, because we have, independently, reached the same amount that we believe is to increase the reduction on personal income tax. Indeed, the current tax system was introduced in 2008 as it works, with the exception of the solidarity tax and some other things, but in principle the structure has not changed significantly since then. And unfortunately, the discount on the taxpayer has not changed since then, which at this time amounts to CZK 24,840 per taxpayer and a year. However, in 2008, when the current adjustment was adopted, the average wage in the Czech Republic was less than 21,000. CZK and the resulting rate of taxation, the income tax rate for man, which had an average wage in 2008, was 10,2 %. While this year, in 2018, the average wage is already more than CZK 29,500, i.e. almost 30 thousand. CZK, and the rate of taxation today of the same person who still has e.g. the average wage is 13,1 per cent. It also warns the Supreme Audit Office or the National Bank that in fact our tax system leads to the increase in wages as well as the increase in the percentage taxation of the work. So today, although the rates do not change formally, people have higher wages, they pay a higher percentage of income than they did before. We think, and we agree completely with colleagues with the ODS, with whom we present it, that it would be appropriate to find some sort of valorisation mechanism. We can talk about whether it's bound to inflation, or to the minimum of life, or to the minimum wage, or to some other indicator, or to the average wage, but it should be set up a mechanism to valorize it automatically. However, there is certainly no room for this within the parliamentary amendment, so we are at least trying to remedy the greatest injustices. That's why we're suggesting that we increase the discount on the taxpayer to 30 grand. Crowns. This means that any taxpayer would save 5,000 on tax in the Czech Republic. Crowns. The huge advantage of this is to reduce income taxes to people in this way, that all taxpayers make the same profit. This is the thing in which I turn to colleagues from the ČSSD, which could say that really every taxpayer from the person taking minimum wage, through all income categories, so he simply gets or saves 5,000. Crowns per year, which, of course, will make the poorer workers feel much more. It will be much more helpful for them. So here I think we've come very far to social democracy, so that the measure we're proposing is, say, solidarity, and where the really poor make a percentage more money on it, but it's fair. Just every taxpayer will have a discount of more than 5,000. Crowns. The budgetary implications of this measure are about 20 billion. The crown, but two things need to be realized. Firstly, we propose the effectiveness of this law from 1. 1. 2020. That means it's a whole year to get ready for it. And 20 billion. is roughly the amount by which the collection of personal income tax increased between 2016 and 2017. So if we're increasing our personal income tax collection by 20 billion, we think it's quite appropriate to make these 20 billion. let people, instead of increasing their traffic costs. In addition, there will be other positive effects, whether in the amount of the tax on value added tax or in the reduction of the cost of housing payments, possibly reducing the cost of child allowances. So we think that this measure is very rational. It offsets the situation where a ten-year discount on the taxpayer remained the same, even though average wages were rising, and therefore the tax burden on Czech citizens was increasing. So we're suggesting we cut the taxes. With the average wage, it's a 1.5-percent-point tax reduction. I ask for your support and thank my colleagues from the ODS who have submitted this proposal with us together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u13	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. Now, President Chvojka, Mr Polanský will prepare himself. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, nice evening. I would like to briefly justify my amendment to this press number 206, which I will, of course, then sign up to in a detailed debate on the amendment. As Members stated in their proposal at the last amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, § 21 para. 8 was supplemented by Law No 8 on value added tax. 170/2017 Sb. and pursuant to this provision, the performance of a service lasting more than 12 months shall be deemed to have been effected on the last day of each calendar year following the year in which the service was started. This provision was without justification for the provision of services to which taxpayers are bound by a decision of the State or of a court or other public authority in a situation where the remuneration for the service is subsequently paid to them after the termination of that service. As a group of Members, including myself, said, was in particular a court appointed by lawyers in criminal, civil and administrative matters. Furthermore, it was tax advisors when they were appointed to provide services, or it was the whole system of free legal aid that began to operate from 1 July this year. This issue has already been resolved in the context of press number 161 in relation to the above mentioned subjects. It was a press that was approved by all the votes of the Members present during the accelerated procedure at first reading. [[17.30 hours]] Unfortunately, this provision, which I have referred to, in my view, also affects unfairly all the activities of insolvency administrators which carry out it within the meaning of Law No. 182/2006 Sb., insolvency law, and this issue was unfortunately not resolved within the last amendment of the law I was talking about. Individual insolvency proceedings last for a number of years, the remuneration of the trustees being granted by insolvency courts only at the end of the insolvency proceedings in accordance with the insolvency law and according to the rules laid down by that law, the exact amount of which can normally be determined only at the time of issuing the relevant court order on that remuneration. In the past, the insolvency administrator is not usually able to account for it. In addition to the advance in some defined cases. Nevertheless, in such a situation, he would have to report and pay the value added tax for the performance provided so far without being entitled to reimbursement. In particular, the source of the insolvency administrator's remuneration is the funds belonging to the debtor's assets. Therefore, this is not always a remuneration paid by the State. In view of this, it is necessary, in order to fulfil the original intention of Members, to extend the scope of the persons concerned to the persons of insolvency administrators and to pay the insolvency administrators resulting from the insolvency law, granted by a decision of insolvency courts and paid by the funds of debtors. And change is very simple. In Part Three, the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, in Article V, in the present paragraph 44 in Section 21 at the end of paragraph 8 (a). (c) the sentence "or, in the case of a service consisting of the performance of the function of insolvency administrator under the provisions of Act No. 182/2006 Coll., insolvency law, as amended" shall be added after the words "if the payment for the provision of such service is paid by the State." Thank you for your attention, and I will apply to this amendment in the context of a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u15	Thank you. Mr Polanský now, Mr Janda will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary, I would like to briefly present our amendment under document number 1858. This is the one I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. This is about liberalizing homemakers. This amendment was prepared on the basis of cooperation with the housekeepers' Guild, their petition, which was handed over three weeks ago to the petition committee. This is when I sum it up in a nutshell, about equalizing domestic producers of beer and wine. First of all, the proposal increases the limit, which is now set at 200 litres per person per year, to 2,000 litres. That's actually the same rate those vintners have. The second thing that changes the proposal is the abolition of the need for registration in the Customs Administration. Today, any domestic beer producer must first register at the Customs Administration before it can start working. Here, homemaking is basically a hobby without any economic impact on society, so we consider this obligation unnecessary. And the last thing the proposal regulates is an obligation - according to current legislation, this homemaker is obliged to keep a record of brewed beer for ten years. So this is going down to three years. I would merely add to that that proposal that, in fact, it only legalizes the current situation for a large part. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u17	Thank you. Mr Janda will now appear, Mr Výborný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you my amendment introduced in the system under 1503, as amended by: "The draft law amending certain EU tax laws is being amended as follows. In Part Three, the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, the following point 210 is inserted after point 209, In Article 84, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (b) CZK 2 000 is replaced by CZK 750." The other points are outnumbered." Ladies and gentlemen, let me explain to you what this amendment is about and give you reasons for its support. In short, this proposal reduces the limit of the so-called VAT refund, or refund to natural persons, when exporting goods of certain value, mostly limited by some amount, in the case of the Czech Republic it is CZK 2 000, from our state to another country outside the European Union, which also applies VAT to its goods. This tax refund scheme works worldwide under the name tax free for all countries applying VAT to their goods. The Czech Republic has been involved in this programme since 1 April 2000 and is regulated by Section 84 of the Value Added Tax Act. Physical persons who do not have their residence in the country, from a vast majority to tourists, then this programme allows them to apply for a refund of VAT on goods that they have purchased and demonstrated to be exported abroad, specifically outside the European Union. The programme is quite popular globally, because it stimulates trade and the economy and tourists, especially those who are wealthy, are focusing on countries where the VAT refund limit is not only zero, i.e. none. This is the problem of the Czech Republic. In the Czech Republic, only those tourists who bought goods with a value of more than CZK 2 000 are entitled to refund. I must point out here that this amount has remained unchanged for 14 years. At that time it was equivalent to EUR 60; today it is EUR 74. The Czech Republic is thus considerably at a disadvantage compared to other destinations. A perfectly typical example against Germany, where there is a zero limit, and tourists can therefore apply a complete deduction. A reduction of this limit to at least CZK 750 would thus bring several advantages to domestic tourism and the Czech economy. Firstly, it is an incentive for the economy to show that one crown of vomit brings 3.9 crowns into the economy. Thanks to this step, we would increase our state's competitiveness. Let me also give practical examples from experience, for example, from the Netherlands, Cyprus or Estonia, where it is proven that there has been a noticeable increase in purchases of non-European tourists in all these countries. In our case, this would mean a very important increase in competitiveness compared to Germany, when the typical crossing of tourists of attractive border regions for purchases would disappear. A very important factor is the influx of new tourists and an increase in their spending. According to the estimate, more than 52,000 new tourists from countries outside the European Union attach tax free shopping to our Republic, and if we speak in numbers, that means CZK 3.4 billion to spend on our economy. [[Will he?]] The Czech Republic would thus become much more attractive to non-European, especially Asian tourists who usually travel in organized tours by more Central European countries. Last but not least, this change would, among other things, provide incentives for traders to better record their sales and thus help combat the grey economy. This applies mainly to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen, because the goods purchased typically relate to craft products such as jewels and toys. It is such a wonderful example to support our smallest entrepreneurs. I would like to ask you in this plenary to support this proposal as this amendment is not an ideological step by ODS in reducing taxes, but it is a step that will help the development of tourism in the Czech Republic and, in particular, the spending of foreign tourists in our country in a fundamental way. This is a step that increases competitiveness in our country, helps our entrepreneurs and stimulates our economy. Thank you for the support of Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, who supported this proposal from her position as President of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, as well as the Economic Chamber of the Czech Republic, the Trade and Tourism Union or the Union of Towns and Municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope you will support my proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u19	Thank you. Mr. Výborný will now be speaking in the debate, followed by Mr. Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, Madam Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues, I would like to justify here two amendments which are listed in the House system under the numbers 1769 and 1770. These are amendments by the KDU-ČSL MEP to support the family with children. I think it is entirely in line with the Government's programming statement, and I believe that there will be cross-cutting support for these two proposals. Allow me to justify them briefly. The first proposal concerns, therefore, both of them concern the Income Tax Act of natural persons. The first concerns an increase in the tax advantage on the child. We know that average wages have increased significantly in recent years, and eventually, according to the forecast by the Ministry of Finance, their further growth is expected. If I were to give specific data, in 2016, the average gross monthly nominal wage in the Czech Republic was CZK 27,764, for 2019 the forecast is CZK 34,500, which is the Ministry of Finance's macroeconomic data from November this year. It would therefore be right, from our point of view, that the amount of tax advantage on the child should also respond to this development. According to an investigation by the Czech Statistical Office, the cost of children in the family is in principle comparable to that of adult family members. Parents, I remind you, are already legally - defined in the Civil Code - obliged to provide children with the same standard of living that they themselves have. At the same time, the total available income per member of the family falls sharply with an increasing number of dependent children. Of course, more family members need to be fed on the same income. This could be demonstrated again by specific data from 2016, it is an analogy then, of course, also related to the data for 2017 and this year. So in the case of a household with one child, the available annual income per person was CZK 160,450, but in the case of a household with three children it was only CZK 108,734, which is also far below the income of households without children, nota bene and under the income of pensioners. For seniors receiving an old-age pension, the annual income was 150 024 CZK, for households with three or more children only 108 734 CZK per head. We therefore consider it right that the amount of the tax advantage should be more comparable to the amount of the tax rebate on the taxpayer, which currently amounts to CZK 24,840. At the same time, it is necessary to take into account the significant increase in costs and the associated fall in disposable income, as I have now argued, on the part of the family, depending on the number of dependent children in the family. We therefore propose in this amendment an increase in the tax advantage per child from the current amount of CZK 15 204 per child per year to a new amount of CZK 21 204, i.e. an increase of CZK 500 per child per month. The families will stay, we will not give it directly in the form of benefits, but they will keep the sum of 500 crowns. In the case of a third and another child, we propose to increase this amount by CZK 1 000 per month for the reasons set out above, to CZK 36 204 per year. At the same time, we propose that the maximum limit of CZK 60,300 be abolished for the application of the tax bonus so that the tax advantage on the child can also be fully applied by working parents with lower incomes to all raised children. With regard to budgetary acceptance, because we understand the Minister's responsibility, we propose that the tax advantage on one child be increased to the new amount of CZK 21 204 from 1 January 2020. Taking effect of the other proposed changes from 1 January 2019, which is logically not going to happen, i.e. from the entry into force of the tax package. I just want to remind you that, of course, the budgetary implications are, but the direct impact is not a real impact, because the multiplier effect that logically works here, when the money stays with the families, it returns partly to the economy, so it reduces the impact to less than half. Based on these predictions, that impact or respectively. Direct, counted, will be about 5.6 billion, final, the result should be a maximum of 2.5 billion. Crowns. But it is the support of the family, it is the support of our families, it is in line with the Government's programming statement, and I believe that the Social Democrats and Members of the ANO movement will also understand this proposal. The second, which is listed in the system under number 1770, also concerns families with children, but also concerns support for children's education. The educational attainment of children in the Czech Republic is significantly influenced by the parent's initial social situation as evidenced by research. The numbers, ladies and gentlemen, are quite alarming from our point of view. When we look at the results of the OECD countries, we're really rusty. Only 22 percent of the population aged 26 to 65 in the Czech Republic achieved higher education than their parents, while in South Korea this number - I remind you, in the Czech Republic it is 22 %, 22.3 - in South Korea it was 56.9 %, in Finland 55.4 %, in Belgium 47 %, in France 45, in Poland 44 %, in the Netherlands 42, in Sweden 41. In many other countries, this figure is significantly higher than in our country and, at the same time, according to the survey of the Czech Statistical Office, it is clear that the cost of children in the family is significantly higher with the age of the child and in older children who are studying, even significantly higher than the cost of adult family members. In order to achieve a significant improvement in the above-mentioned adverse situation in the Czech Republic, which to a large extent affects the subsequent applicability of children in the labour market, and to support the often complex income situation of parents of older children, students, and thus motivate families to support children in their efforts to achieve higher education, we propose increasing support for families with members of higher education and secondary schools by helping them to increase the tax advantage on children. In particular, we propose an increase in entitlement to tax advantages for a child by CZK 12 708 per year, i.e. CZK 1 059 per month for each dependent child who is constantly preparing for a future profession at a university, conservatory or higher vocational school, and an increase in entitlement to tax advantages for a child by CZK 6 360 per year, that is CZK 530 per month for each dependent child who is constantly preparing for a future profession at a secondary school. Again, in order not to bomb the budget of the Minister, we propose that the effectiveness be postponed from 1 January 2020. The impact on the state budget will again be reduced by the multiplier effect, because, of course, the money will remain partly in the Czech economy. Both proposals will then be read in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention and for supporting these proposals to support our families, our children and education in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u21	Thank you. Mr Munzar will speak in the debate, Mr Skopeček will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Let me explain a few amendments here. I will start with the amendment that we are proposing on behalf of the Zbyněk Stanjura group of Members, Jan Volný and myself, Vojtěch Munzar, and it is a proposal to increase the limit for applying spending flats to income from a separate activity to a level of CZK 2 million. We repeat this proposal in a relatively short time. In the previous discussion, he failed only briefly and I am pleased that we are presenting him today on behalf of a group of Members. I am also glad that we agreed that we should remove the obstacles that the state often puts in the way of those who are self-employed. The biggest problem of small business is administration and bureaucracy. For example, according to the bureaucracy index for small companies, which was processed by the Liberal Institute, a small company spends 233 hours a year in paperwork. That's a huge amount of time. For businessmen and small entrepreneurs, therefore, spending flats are the easiest - they do not have to paper, they do not have to keep tax records of costs, virtually. from 1 million to 2 million crowns of all costs. Saved time can be used more effectively by businessmen to develop business. And it is also beneficial for the state, because it will collect its health and social insurance and a positive tax on payers over CZK 1 million and it has its own. At the same time, flats do not force tax optimizations. [[17.50 hours]] Therefore, flat-rate spending is intended to save time for people whose time is the most important means of production. They spend it not only on the very performance of their business, on the services for us, but also on the amount of time they spend to get themselves a job. So they spend their time to support their families and also to meet their obligations to the state budget. Moreover, every administration is claimed by the state precisely for this most important means of production, their time. The very value of these persons is contained in their very definition. They're alone, they're profitable, they're active, and that means they're active. I hope that, at a time of economic growth, we can show a little generosity towards these people, whom we should appreciate for their activity, because they can take care of themselves and often employ not only themselves, but often someone else and mainly create values for our society. As far as the budgetary implications of our proposal are concerned, we expect them to be really minimal, in the order of several hundred percent to one tenth of the revenue of the state budget. According to the Ministry of Finance's estimate, this is CZK 1.2 billion of impact on the state budget. If this proposal goes through, the state budget will feel it at least, but tens of thousands of people will have a simpler life. Specifically, it concerns 158,000 people. That is why we are putting forward this proposal, because the State should be in a position to create good conditions for active citizens. By supporting this proposal, we will show that we value active and self-sufficient people and especially appreciate their time in their business. So thank you for supporting this proposal. Then, in the third reading, I will sign up in a detailed debate on this joint proposal. The other two amendments, which are my personal, concern tax forms. My amendment aims to remove situations where the content, form or structure of the essential data required by the State in the context of tax submissions is not determined by law or by law. In my opinion, this situation does not correspond to the basic principle that the State should only require citizens to have data given by a legal standard. It's not like that with tax forms. It is actually at the will of the Ministry of Finance or the tax administrator, which information will be required on the forms. It is therefore no wonder that a group of senators also turned to the Constitutional Court on this matter. This is what the representatives of the Chamber of Tax Advisors pointed me out, and after studying the material, I had to give them the truth. Therefore, I propose that the content, structure and quantity of data requested be determined by a decree, as is common in other spheres of the exercise of state authority and the application of forms. It's a routine procedure. The creation of the decree is governed by the legislative rules of the government and therefore has a defined process of preparing comments, approval and publication. Another amendment I want to introduce you to, I already tabled it about a year ago to the amendment to the Tax Code. My intention is to heal the inequality before the law, which was that on the one hand, we have a tax entity which has been unduly charged and is entitled to compensation, and on the other hand, we have a tax entity, which has also been unduly charged and is not entitled to such compensation. The only difference is whether it's a divided or a separate tax administration. The legal compensation is compensation for the fact that the tax entity could not manipulate its money for some time and incurred economic losses. So I want to abolish this inequality because of the internal competence of the state. I want to cancel that one sentence in the tax system so that we can get back to normal, in that if you get an wrongful fine, you have the right to compensation regardless of whether the state has determined it as a divided or a non-disclosured tax administration. It seems so fair and right to me. And the last amendment I want to introduce you to is the proposal of a group of Members across the political spectrum, apart from my person Marian Jurečka, Petr Pátek, Petr Dolínek, Petr Třešňák and Pavel Staněk, which concerns the transfer of VAT to heat and cold to the second reduced rate from 15 to 10 percent. This proposal is presented in agreement with the Sub-Committee on Energy and following the agreement of the Economic Committee on this proposal. The reason leading us to this step is the expected increase in heat prices, which is caused artificially, i.e. by the amendment of the EU ETS Directive, which is - emission allowance trading. By changing this directive at the beginning of this year, there was a sharp increase in the price of emission allowances from EUR 5 to EUR 20; next year more than EUR 25 per allowance is expected to rise. This is really an artificial increase. The emission allowance is nothing more than an artificial financial derivative that enters the costs and prices of heat production as an artificial load. In my opinion, this is also an example of such an EU policy, where the baby accidentally spilled with the bathtub, when, in the context of environmental protection and emission reductions, the EU has set such a system that it slowly leads to the uncompetitiveness of central heating through heat, to which approximately 35 percent of households in the Czech Republic are connected. If this happens and if these households are disconnected from CZK, we will have many resources that are absolutely emissibly uncontrollable, and we will also increase our dependence on imports of expensive gas from Russia. So this is an example of where too ambitious targets and tools will do the opposite. But back to the point. Cirka 1.5 million households are connected to CZK, and the effort to move VAT from 15 to 10 percent to heat and cold is an attempt to compensate at least partially for the increase in heat prices due to the increase in emission allowances. As far as the impact on the state budget is concerned, the income of CZK 7.4 billion was originally assumed from emission allowances, with around 13 billion expected to grow. So an increase of $5 billion. Since the price increase is induced artificially, this compensation, reduced VAT, would reduce this increase by approximately CZK 2 billion. That's why we're presenting it. I will, of course, personally support the unification of the reduced VAT rate at the limit of 10%, which is the ODS's long-term position, but I am also in a group of Members who are proposing this partial proposal, in case it happens that the tax unification would not have passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Skopeček, Mr Martínek, will now speak in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u24	Thanks for the word. As part of my second reading, I will sign up for the joint amendment that Ferjenčík and I are proposing, and thank you for your helpfulness that we can submit it together. Before I get to it, I will mention, even though I made a more extensive comment at first reading, that I consider this amendment to be a wasted opportunity, because at first there was a great expectation that this law would lead to a severe tax reduction, perhaps even to a simplification of the tax system, but the most important things were eventually withdrawn by the government, such as the abolition of a supergross wage. Without underestimating the subject that is involved, I consider this to be more of a technical matter from this point of view. We as ODS, of course, do not want to accept this, which is why we are putting forward a number of amendments, including the abolition of a super-gross wage, which would really lead to a reduction in taxpayers' tax burden. We want to increase the limits of spending flats for our middle and small entrepreneurs. My previous speaker spoke of the fact that we want to address the not-so-good situation in the emission allowance market, which burden our heat plants, and it threatens to have an impact on customer disconnecting and the breakdown of central heating in the Czech Republic. [[18.00 hours]] My amendment, or our joint with the Pirates, concerns a basic tax discount on the taxpayer, which has been the same since 2008 in the amount of CZK 24,840. Perhaps someone remembers that it has fallen due to the fact that they wanted to raise money to deal with floods, so-called. flood stokoruna, but de facto since 2008 this amount is the same. What does that mean? It means one simple thing: without doing anything, of course, sneaking around and secretly increasing the taxation of our fellow citizens. The relative increase in taxation is happening in two channels. For one thing, the importance of the basic discount that any taxpayer can deduct is decreasing as the average wage increases. It is clear that then the discount is relatively lower and, of course, also due to rising inflation, which is the second channel, the real value of the nominally unchanged basic discount is reduced. For illustration only, while in the first tax year, when the discount of 24 840 was applied, the average monthly gross wage was CZK 22 592 and the basic discount on the taxpayer was CZK 2 248 higher than the average wage in the economy, in 2017, when the average gross monthly wage was CZK 29 504, the discount was CZK 4 664 lower. The gross monthly wage for these 10 years has increased by 30,6 %, so you can calculate how the importance of the basic tax discount is decreasing relatively. As far as inflation is concerned, inflation for the period 2008 to 2017, i.e. during the period of validity of the basic discount of CZK 24,840, has accumulated at 20,9 percent. In order to reach the fair value of the discount at least to the price level of 2008, the basic discount would have to be approximately CZK 30 030 in 2017. To be divisible by 12, of course, we come up with a proposal that increases this basic discount to CZK 30,000, which corresponds to an increase of 20.8%. When we were wondering what percentage to increase it by, we had a de facto choice either to monitor the evolution of inflation or how gross monthly wages went up. We have chosen inflation growth as a criterion, even given that it is a lower increase, that it can be a more bearable option for a government coalition than if we were to increase the basic deductible item by 30,6 percent, or by the increase in gross wages. If we agreed to increase it by increasing gross wages, the discount would have to be CZK 32 440. However, in order to make this amendment more likely to be accepted, we have chosen the lower criterion, i.e. the inflation criterion, and we are increasing roughly the basic deductible item by 21 percent. My colleague Ferjenčík has already said this, it is fair in the sense that the basic deductible item can be deducted by all, it is a general thing, it affects all taxpayers who, of course, have a tax obligation, or their income is such that they pay for tax liability. Of course, the logic of the matter is that for low-income fellow citizens, the basic deductible item or the basic tax discount is relatively more important than for people who have above-average incomes, so it is also a call towards the left-hand side of the political spectrum. I think that this is also a very socially responsible and socially focused measure that suits the right, because it reduces the tax burden, on the other hand it is socially responsible, because the greater benefit will be given to low-income groups. As far as the impact on the state budget is concerned, according to our conservative estimate and calculation, the impact on the state budget is 15,7 billion. As far as public budgets as a whole are concerned, it is CZK 23.2 billion. Kč. Here again, it needs to be recalled that the money will not be lost from the economy. Moreover, what is left in people's purses will certainly be spent or spent on higher consumption, or it can be expected that this money will be returned to the state through excise duties. In this context, I would also like to call on our trade unions, which have been promoting wage growth for a long time with the motto 'end of cheap work', I think this is a great proposal which can be a rather significant step in the sense that people who work will remain more money in their wallets. So let us together declare the end of cheap work by supporting the joint proposal of Members of the ODS and Members of the Pirate Club. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u25	Thank you. President Stanjura will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u26	Thank you for the floor. I originally wanted to have a procedural proposal because it seems to me that there are few Members here for such an interesting debate. But in the end, I won't do it. There are only those who care about taxes. I would count that taxes are all interested in everyone, that's exactly the political conflict, even the government's torso, and I apologize to the ministers who are here, but the government doesn't care much either. In fact, there are all types of taxes in the tax package - at least they are open, not just heated tobacco. Maybe I'd start where my colleague, Mr. MP Skopeček, ended up. Let me introduce you to two amendments. First, the one relating to the net income of employees. If, in these weeks or months, you are having a debate with employers, entrepreneurs, from the largest to the smallest, they will say to you that the space for further wage increases is narrowing from their point of view, that they are not actually able to grow so high wages, which took place this year or last year, to guarantee even for the years to come, that it could already threaten profitability, profitability, investment by individual enterprises in their development, into their further development. One way to increase employees' net income while not increasing employers' costs is to reduce the tax on dependent activities. So our amendment, which I propose on behalf of our parliamentary club, concerns the abolition of a super-gross wage. I want to remind you that the tax package contained it in its original form, actually before the comment procedure. As part of the comment procedure, it is true that the motion to abolish the supergross wage was removed from the bill and the government sent it to the Chamber of Deputies without this paragraph. The abolition of the supergross wage itself and the replacement of the gross wage plus minus with the same tax in principle makes no sense except for additional revenue for companies that make accounting software, because this is obviously the reason for upgrade or upgrade and for a new, improved version. Therefore, we do not propose what the government originally proposed to increase the gross wage income tax to about 20, 19, 21 percent, which is essentially fiscally neutral. We propose that the rate should remain at 15 per cent, which brings a significant increase in net revenue. We differ somewhat in estimates of the impacts that the Ministry of Finance has processed, so we have worked them out. We expect a total reduction of 55 billion. We find this number realistic and honest, it's not pink paint. It is an impact on the entire public budgets. Of course, according to the budgetary determination of taxes, we could say exactly how much the state budget would be, how much the regional budget and how much the municipal budget would be. I'm not going to repeat the arguments from my previous speakers about the multiplier effect at this point, and I'm going to get two back when I give the crown here. It doesn't work that easily, but it is a tool to benefit from the economic growth of those active, those who work, who deserve higher net incomes. [[18.10 hours]] This House document has number 1865 and I will then sign up for it in a detailed debate. We will save a more detailed explanation for the third reading, where I believe that there will be a greater participation in the Chamber of Deputies, because I assume that before Christmas, it will work, to decide on individual amendments. The second amendment I would like to introduce to you is the number of 1878 and I present it together with the rapporteur, Mr Dolejš. It concerns excise duty on beer. This is the second example where temporaryity in the tax area is shown to be an illusion. Mr Kalousek spoke of this when we introduced increased VAT rates for three years, and, behold, six years have passed, and so far it does not appear that temporary would end after three or even six years, further. [[unintelligible]] On 1 January 2010, he began to pay - it was called Janotův's package in a political racket. I was not in the Chamber of Deputies at the time, but Mr Dolejš is a memorial. There was a discussion when a proposal came to the Chamber of Deputies, which on the one hand increased taxes, various, and on the other hand limited the expenditure of the state budget. And because it was in the election year, it turned out roughly as follows: the tax increase passed, the expenditure cut failed. And then the government said that the increase in excise duty was temporarily introduced. And it's nine, if I count correctly, the ninth accounting period, when it's true. Meanwhile, the behaviour of consumers has changed. I think it's amazing news, and I have the latest intel, at the end of last year, 400 mini-breweries were operating on our territory. The tax is partly harmonised and allows the smallest to be reduced by up to 50 per cent of the excise duty on the base rate according to the annual exhibition. We, in the explanatory report, have described this rather in detail, we are not going back to the level that was in force before 1 January 2010, but the rates are slightly higher than they were then. After all, the reality of economic life is a little different than it was in 2009. We believe that this proposal will lead to the fact that it will actually capture the change in consumer behaviour, that it will also lead to the promotion of mini-breweries, and therefore to the promotion of business in cities and municipalities, because it is actually decentralised, it is not any big company. If we say that there are 400 of them, when I was debating with the representatives of these mini-breweries last year, the number of employees is somewhere between eight and ten. There's never a larger number of employees. And if you add it up, it's a few tens of thousands of employees. And those companies won't go to another state for tax holidays, they won't go to other countries' investment incentives, and they will certainly stay and do business in the Czech Republic. When we look at the assumed tax blackout, it makes only 600 million a year from my point of view. It's not a dramatic number, it's about a tenth of the fare, for example, Madam Secretary. A tenth. And there are almost 40,000 jobs. So if I were to calculate it on one employee, that number isn't dramatic in any way. And I don't want to list all the good ideas of the members of the government who have been spewing ideas on how to increase spending in the last few days. I look forward to discussing parents, for example. We have two ministers who pushed it against each other. One beat the other, and they made a deal. But I don't want to burden you with that today. I mean, the amount really isn't too high. At the same time, the beer market would certainly help. I believe that when you study the explanatory report that we will find the necessary majority and that we will keep the promises made by the civil service government. It was the bureaucratic government that suggested it, pushed through, and said it was temporary at the same time. I don't know if they gave it a year or two, I don't know, or two or three, but it's been nine financial years. And I think we could change that. The proposed effectiveness would be in line with what Mr Free has said to the Committee on Budgets, which has been approved by the Committee on Budgets, i.e. the general efficiency is a month after it comes out in the Collection of Laws. So that's where we don't specifically deal with it. I forgot to tell you about the supergross wage, which, of course, is where we propose effectiveness on 1 January 2020, because the law cannot, if it were approved, it could not be valid and effective on 1 January 2019, and already for January, wages will be paid and, of course, there is a need for order. So the proposal for the effectiveness of the first amendment is at 1. 1. 2020. With this amendment that we are proposing with the rapporteur, as it will be with most of this law, a month after the law comes out in the Collection of Laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before we continue the debate, I will introduce you to the apologies that have gathered here in the meantime. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová apologises from 18.10 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr Marek Výborný apologies from 18 a.m. to the end of the day due to the working session in the Senate. Mr Jiří Běhounek from 18.20 until the end of the day for working reasons. Mrs Jana Levová apologises from 17.47 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr David Kasal has also apologized since 17.45 for working reasons. And for reasons of work, Mr Jaroslav Kytýr apologizes at the same time, i.e. from 17.45 to the end of the day. And now Mr Martínek has the floor in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to use this moment to present my four amendments to this press. Firstly, it is voluntary donation to the public media and the possibility of deduction from the tax base. It is also a matter of live gambling tournaments. Thirdly, it is a question of determining the tax base in case of payment using virtual currencies, so-called crypto-currency. Fourthly, it is an extension of the time limit for the submission of an electronic income tax return. The first three amendments, or all four amendments, are quite detailed in the explanatory memorandum. I would like to comment in more detail on the fourth one, namely the extension of the deadline for submitting an electronic tax return, which should have consensual support. At least I hope so, because he's prepared so that it's gonna be hard to find any negatives there, why not approve him. In the Czech Republic, it is currently one of the shortest deadlines for filing a tax return in the European Union. Many taxpayers therefore have difficulty completing all the necessary documents in this short interval to fill out their tax return. It can be done for example. confirmation from more employers, including abroad, where other deadlines apply. Confirmation for use of discounts or advantages, background materials for all annexes, including business statements, etc. Currently, the only legal way to extend this period is to pay a fee to a private tax advisor. Another problem of the current system is the low rate of electronically submitted tax returns, around 20 percent. A high number of paper-based tax returns are unnecessarily burdened by the tax administrator's employees, thereby increasing the demands on the state budget. The main advantages of electronic tax return are minimizing errors associated with manual filling and checking, allowing better communication with authorities or easier monitoring of processing status. Electronic submission of tax returns enables the whole process to be accelerated, administrative costs to be reduced and archiving to be simplified. This proposal extends the current three-month period for the submission of a tax return by one month in cases where the tax entity submits a tax return electronically. This provides a positive incentive for citizens to make greater use of electronic tax returns. At the same time, there are no negatives for existing taxpayers who do not want to use the electronic submission option. In the event that the tax entity does not submit the tax return electronically within the extended period, this extension will not be taken into account and any penalties will be calculated in the same way as if it had not submitted the tax return within a three-month period. The proposal also provides positive incentives for persons submitting tax returns for the use of electronic forms of filing, while allowing those who can fill out their own tax returns to make a return in time without the need to use a tax advisor. [[18.20 hours]] At the same time, the proposal should reduce the cost of the State of tax collection and help to reduce the error rate of tax returns made. The employees of the financial authorities will thus be able to carry out the tasks they are used to during April, including checks on paper returns. The increased number of electronic submissions should be reduced by the labour demands of the staff of the Financial Office. The proposal does not bring any fundamental changes. Newly, only any penalties for non-submitting a tax return will be counted only in May, when it will be clear that the taxpayer did not submit the income tax return or within an electronic extension period. Similar legislation applies in other countries. For example, in the United Kingdom, the standard deadline for filing a tax return is seven months after the end of the tax period, and for electronic tax returns it is a period of ten months. In neighbouring Austria, the term for electronic income tax returns is 30. 6. this is two months longer than in the case of paper administration. In addition, Member States such as Belgium, France, Ireland, Cyprus or Hungary benefit from electronic tax returns. Tax returns can only be filed electronically, e.g. in Denmark, Finland, Croatia, Latvia, the Netherlands, Romania, Greece or Slovenia. The proposed amendment also effectively complements the benefits of the forthcoming MY tax portal. I thank you for your attention and hope that this amendment will find your support and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u29	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a procedural proposal. I'm doing this just in case, I don't want to delay, I really don't. But allow me to propose, on behalf of two parliamentary clubs, ours and social democracy, that the Chamber of Deputies act, both territorially and procedurally vote on all proposals even after 19 o'clock, and that is only to discuss item 7, press 206, which we are currently discussing. Thank you for understanding this proposal and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u31	Yes. I have noted this procedural proposal. While we do not have a second reading vote on this point, we could agree to discuss this point, but of course I will put it to a vote, it is customary. So it's clear what we're going to vote on. About discussing this point even after 7:00 p.m. There is a request for a check-out, which I have granted, I beg all of you, to rejoin with your voting cards. And we can vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 21, 129 Members signed in for 107, versus 10. We'll discuss the motion after 19 o'clock. Mr Luzar will now be speaking in the debate, followed by Mr Čižinský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u32	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief and very fast in the intensities of time. There were words that said that citizens should be interested in taxes, that we should also be interested in taxes and tax burdens. I'm here to make it clear that citizens are mostly interested in how much money they have left in their wallet. Citizens clearly care if the government on one side says it wants to add to the elderly that it wants to add to the low-income groups, it cannot say from the other side that it will take away the money that it gives them in the media. It takes them in the context of VAT, takes them mainly in the context of growth in energy prices. Therefore, the KSČM clearly states that we will not allow energy to grow, so that the revenues that citizens have received in addition to their wallets after long years will be flown out of their wallets from the other side. That is why there is a proposal on the table for heat, remote heat supplied - and the Czech Republic is a phenomenon here in this Europe, because remote heating is historically the most efficient and environmentally friendly heating source - to be promoted to fall within the VAT rate from the current reduced rate of 15 per cent to 10 per cent VAT, which would allow citizens to maintain a moderate, moderate increase in income and not lose it here by this measure. This measure is proposed and I will sign up for it in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And with a factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík will respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u34	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond to my colleague Luzar and ask for the very reasons he spoke about supporting the proposal to increase the tax discount, because the poorest workers will probably appreciate the extra CZK 5,000 that they will receive. And just because they're all adding up, they're all falling into really higher tax rates at the same time, so the tax is growing continuously. So I wanted to ask the KSČM club to support our proposal for this reason.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u35	Thank you. Now, in the general debate, Mr Čižinský was the last Member to sign up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u36	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to present document 1771, Mr Marian Jurečka's amendment. This is a proposal to convert from 15% of the VAT rate to 10% of organic food. To transfer organic food, because it is an environmentally friendly procedure that employs a higher number of people than the production of conventional food, and there is also a health aspect that would not be good to ignore. I will also sign up for this in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u37	Thank you. As I was saying, Mr Čižinský was the last member of the general debate. Anyone else reporting? No. So I am done with the general debate. Of course, I will ask the Minister, the rapporteur, whether there is an interest in final words. It's not. So I'm opening up a detailed debate. In a detailed debate, Mrs Golasowská will be the first to speak, followed by Mr Ferjenčík. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for the amendment by my colleague Marian Jurečka, who is under House document 1773 and concerns a change in the VAT rate from 21 per cent to 10 per cent for natural gas used for heating and heating hot water. I have commented in detail on this amendment in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u39	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Feri after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am applying to three amendments. Specifically, the amendment under the number of the House document 1825, which releases the explicit implementation of the GAAR rule on the grounds that I consider it unnecessary. In the Czech case-law, we already apply the GAAR rule and I consider it dangerous to put it in the tax system so that it applies entirely to all types of taxpayers, not only to legal persons, which is required by the European Union. So I'm applying to House document 1825. I also refer to House document 1826, an amendment which releases the possibility for Customs to use cover documents to check the EET. I believe it is not justified to use this rather forceful EET control tool. If workers really are in danger of health or life, this needs to be dealt with by other instruments, and certainly not through the introduction of cover documents. Thirdly, I am applying to the House document 1870, which is the proposal of my colleague Jan Skopeček and my colleague Jan Skopeček, which I have given very detailed reasons in the general debate. This is an increase in the discount on the taxpayer from CZK 24,840 to CZK 30,000. We believe that it is appropriate to adjust this discount, which has not changed since 2008, with the average wage rising by almost one third in the meantime, perhaps even more according to the latest figures. So we think it's the 20 billion. income from income tax, which the State has been collecting each year in recent years, should instead leave to the citizens. The poorest workers, for whom it is the largest percentage, will appreciate this most. So I'm applying to House document 1870. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u41	Thank you. Let me introduce you to another apology. Mr Klaus, Mrs Majerová and Mr Bartoň apologize from 19 a.m. to the end of the day for a business dinner at the Vietnamese Embassy. Mr Feri, the President of Chvojka, will now speak in a detailed debate. Sorry, with priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura, to whom I now give my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u42	Thank you. It's just formal. I will also sign up for three amendments, which have been read and justified in a detailed debate, in writing. House document 1865, an amendment concerning the abolition of a supergross wage. House document 1878, this is an amendment with the rapporteur concerning the reduction of excise duty on beer. And 1879 is the amendment that I, Mr Volný Member and Mr Munzar, propose to increase spending flat rates for businessmen. I hereby formally submit to all these three amendments in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u43	Good evening. The next is, therefore, entered in a detailed debate by Mr Dominik Feri, and Mr Jan Chvojka will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to apply to the amendment by Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, who concerns the reduction of the tax burden on working parents. You will find it including a written justification as House document 1857. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u45	Thank you. Another in the detailed debate is Mr Jan Chvojka. Mr Polanský will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I have already justified my amendment and I hereby declare it. He's got 1873. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u47	Thank you. Otherwise, Mr Stanjura has been apologizing since 19 o'clock. I will therefore now request a speech from Mr Polanský. Mr Jakub Janda will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u48	Thank you for the floor. I'm applying to the House document under number 1858. It is the liberalisation of the environment for beer homeowners, which I presented here in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u49	Thank you. Mr Jakub Janda will now prepare Mr Jiří Dolejš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u50	Hello. Allow me to sign up for my amendment in the system under number 1503. I have presented this proposal to you in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u51	Thank you. And now, Mr. Jiří Dolejš. Mr Munzar will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u52	Yes, thank you for your word. I dare to be very lapidary. I am signing up for the amendment that I have put into the system and has number 1778. I am lapidary because it merely complements the effective passage, where, for time reasons, this problem did not get into the budget committee resolution. This applies to leasing companies which could thus be affected in an indefinite period of time when the VAT passage is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u53	Thank you. Now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Mr Jan Volný will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u54	Thank you. Allow me, too, to apply to the amendments that I have justified here in the general debate. It is an amendment concerning flat-rate expenditure, which is what Mr Stanjura has signed up to. However, I still want to sign up for Amendment 1776, which is the joint proposal by Mr Jurečka, my colleague Pávek, Dolínek, Třešňák and Staněk concerning the change in the rate of VAT on heat. At the same time, I would like to apply to Amendment 1657 on tax compensation and to Amendments 1656 and 1705 on tax forms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u55	Thank you. Mr Dominik Feri apologizes for health reasons until the end of the day. And now, Mr Jan Volný, and Mr Jan Čižinský will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u56	Thank you. Colleagues, I would like to address this amendment, which is inserted into the system as House document 1849. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u57	Thank you. And now, Mr. Jan Čižinský. Mr. Jan Skopeček will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u58	Thank you. I would like to sign up for House document 1769; it is a discount on children; it is Mr Marian Jurečka's amendment. Then 1770, it is a discount on students, and 1771, it is a transfer of organic food from 15 to 10 percent. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u59	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček now. Mr Tomáš Martínek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u60	Thank you for the floor. I want to sign up for our joint amendment with my colleague Ferjenčík under number 1870. We both gave him sufficient reasons in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u61	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek now. Mr Leo Luzar will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u62	Hello again. I want to sign up for my amendments under the numbers 1793, 1795, 1861 and 1864. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u63	Thank you. Now, Mr Leo Luzar. Mr Miroslav Kalousek will be the last to prepare. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u64	Thank you for the floor. I would like to make an amendment under number 1576 here in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u65	Thank you. As the last Member, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Mr. Ambassador, you're glowing. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u66	Excuse me, that was terrible speed. I have been expressing myself for quite a long time in the general debate, so just let me put my amendments under 1838 and 1839 in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u67	Thank you. Mr. Dolejš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u68	I really don't want to delay, but the legislation warned me that I should get glasses because I read the numbers 1178 and actually it's in the 1179 system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-006-007.u69	Thank you for the clarification. Let me see if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anybody, so I'm ending the debate in detail. If necessary, the final words? I'm asking the secretary. Interested? No. Mr. Dolejš? No. Since I have no proposals to vote here, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Now, because, as you can see, we were quick, we have time to discuss the next press. We have a point here.
