ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 8 and 9 /house prints 33 and 34/ I just ask Members of Parliament, if they propose something that will require a vote, whether it is a return, rejection or shortening or extension of the deadline, to always specify to which Parliament's press their proposal relates, because after the end of the merged debate, we will have to deal with each House's press separately. So many introductory remarks. Mr Výborný is entered into the merged debate. I give him my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u2	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. I would like to introduce House Press No. 34 which relates to the same case in question, and this is an amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interest. The matter is really very acute, and I admit that the discussions within the entire Chamber of Deputies across the Members' clubs were launched in principle immediately after the establishment of the House, because what really pushes us and why these things may seem hectic at one glance is that municipal elections will take place in October and everyone sitting here knows that these candidates are being assembled in these very days, in these weeks, and many candidates, especially those small municipalities, those who act as non-releasers, are considering very much or rejecting the fact that they would be running in municipal elections. There is indeed a threat - and this is not some fiction or some kind of impressionology - that is really based on hard facts from the regions - the destabilisation of the communal sphere. I don't think any of us want it here. Because in these very small municipalities, the disproportion is really very serious. If we take today's law on conflict of interest - and we all know how the law arose, in what atmosphere of the last parliamentary term - the law actually equals us Members, ministers of the government, senators, but also the mayor of the village, which has 150 inhabitants, or a council member in the case of a small municipality or a town, 1,800, 1,300 inhabitants. I think the disproportion here really is obvious. Our proposal is not about denying some transparency, certainly not. Rather, we are concerned that this disproportion that has arisen here and which leads to public administration being threatened by municipalities in the sense that the good, experienced, who have been in office for years, have had experience in their professions, would simply refuse to run. Perhaps somewhere those candidates would have been created, and it would certainly have been negatively reflected on the quality of governance of municipalities and cities, and none of us wants that. I am very happy - and here I have to appreciate a really helpful approach across political clubs that I think we can see on this law that we can agree and support what is necessary and sensible for our citizens and for our cities and municipalities. There has been some consensus here, which, I believe, will then be approved in the second and third reading, and it will be the signal for mayors, mayors, council members in the municipalities, that we are serious about this and that we do not want to come to a situation here where, in the finals, the whole thing could have an impact on the state budget, because the forced administration, which would have been forced to introduce the Ministry of Interior in those municipalities, obviously carries some financial costs towards the state budget, and I do not think any of us wants to. All I can do is say hard data. There are currently 6 258 municipalities in the Czech Republic, of which 4,863, i.e. 77 percent, up to one thousand inhabitants and 89 percent to two thousand inhabitants. In most of these municipalities, mayors and vice- mayors are acting unreleased in their functions, i.e. in my job at the expense of often families, hobbies, etc., and that is the merit of the thing that I am talking about here. [[16.00 hours]] We are at the round table that took place here - and I would like to thank all the mayors and members of the local authorities' association, the Union of Towns and Communities and others who participated in the round table - that issue was discussed at the beginning of January. I am glad that there were also representatives of the Ministry of Justice who heard not the words of the Members, but indeed the words from the field, from the field from those mayors, heard where the problem was. On this basis, too, the first item which was addressed by the working group, which was convened by the President of the House Radek Vondráček, took this issue and within the working group we tried to reach a compromise with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Justice, who is the administrator of the register in question, as we all know, and reached a compromise which, on the one hand, de facto, partly interferes with both of the two amendments proposed here in both thousands, and does not actually deny the transparency in any fundamental way. I would like to conclude by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that the agreement from yesterday's meeting of the Working Group with the President is the following - and we have all agreed with it there, and I would like to thank all the participants in the working group for that. The agreement is that the second reading of House press number 34 will include an amendment which will not go in the direction of some, neither release nor release, do not give property and income returns, the obligation will remain, but we will deal with the indispensability of some of the data contained in the register, and we will deal with the non-publicity of the very unreleased members of self-government. We want to get out of this thing, I can probably say that in advance here, to remove unreleased members of statutory cities and their urban areas. Yes, we realize that, for example, in the capital city of the city, some members of the council are unreleased in their positions and are in charge of very important matters such as public procurement, and public control should be maintained here, and so, of course, neither will the higher local authorities, the regions, because even some councillors are somewhere unreleased, so, of course, there would be no logic. But it's going to be about the unreleased, and it won't be about all the parameters, because there's a good reminder that some of the data are publicly traceable in the real estate register today, so it makes no sense to disclose these data when it's traceable in other public registers. The agreement from the working group is that this amendment, which I have prepared, will be read to Parliament's press no. 34. That's why I'd like to ask you for his support. At the same time, in view of the approaching term of municipal elections, the working group agreed on a significant, maximum, reduction of the time limits for second reading under Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to request a reduction of the time limit to seven days. Thank you very much for your support. And I would like to thank all my colleagues, colleagues, who have very constructively and sensibly approached this issue, which is really not banal, but absolutely essential, and that we are aware of this here in the House of Deputies, of course, is good. I thank all the mayors, the Association of Local Authorities and the Union of Towns and Municipalities for their cooperation and I believe that we will succeed even after agreement, which was also negotiated with the President of the Constitutional Legal Committee, so that, as a guarantee committee, this press will discuss just within that shortened period of seven days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u3	Have a good afternoon. And the next person we have enrolled in the general debate is Mr Martin Baxa. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u4	Mr President, my dear colleagues, we are discussing a proposal that is fundamentally affecting the area of municipal policy. As a long-time Pilsen municipal politician, I am very close to this issue. The present material even applies to me personally because I am currently acting as a relaxed deputy mayor of the city of Pilsen. But there's no way I want to lobby here for an adjustment for those who, like me, have a relaxed community position. While I have my doubts about the functionality of the amendment, I respect the principle of disclosure according to the Act on Conflict of Interests, although I take care of the property of my city by virtue of urban policy and by decision of citizens. That's not the point. On the contrary, our response calls for undoubtedly a worrying trend, which was initiated by the aforementioned amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interests. It has introduced an obligation to publish appropriate information also for municipal politicians who perform their functions unreleased. I'm going to step out of the political chat room here and translate the term "unrelaxed function" into human speech. They are those who engage in municipal politics in their free time and do not go to town halls every day to work, but after work, when other citizens engage in families, hobbies and rest. It is mainly the mayors of the smallest municipalities, the mayors of smaller municipalities and towns and the vast majority of municipal councilors. These are very often those who work in municipalities, where people literally have municipal policy at their fingertips, and civil control here does not need much help through the law. These people were added another duty by law, and this year it turns out that for many of them it was simply too much. A number of local politicians in smaller municipalities do not want to run again, and the real threat is that after the autumn municipal elections, the problem of the fact that in many municipalities it is very difficult to find citizens who would be willing to take responsibility for the management of their municipalities will deepen. We can lament the fact that citizens are not rushing into municipal politics. It's not gonna get us anything. Our role is elsewhere. Let us not throw sticks under the feet of unnecessary regulation to those who have an interest in governance and in small municipalities. This will really help the quality of management of our cities and municipalities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u5	Thank you, Mr. President, and I have another enrollment... aha, a point of fact - Mr. Strýček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have not been here in the last parliamentary term, and today I am watching this debate with great interest. Maybe this tech of mine will be the shortest in history. There's only one thing I'd like to say. The fact that we are discussing this law today is a consequence of the fact that this law has not been approved in the general interest, but has been approved against individuals and individual matters. That's my tech for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u7	I thank you for keeping the time and with the application for a general debate here I have Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Please. [[Right: Technical!]] Sorry. Does anyone here have a factual point? [[Messenger. Benda.]] You just jumped on my screen. So, Mr Benda - a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I just have to respond to my previous speaker with deep respect for him. What is there is the government's proposal for the then government, in which there was social democracy, the movement YES and KDU-ČSL. The fact that I consider this to be a complete crap and that we have mainly loaded on municipal and small municipal policies incredible obligations under the pressure of various reconstructions of the state and other lobby agencies was unfortunately the work of your President, who sat in that government and massaged others there, that he must comply with the reconstruction of the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And here is another point of fact - Mrs Langšádlová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I dare to respond to some of the things that have been said here. Firstly, I appreciate that it is the will to find a consensus, and I appreciate the President of the Chamber of Deputies for initiating the debate on this subject. I also think, like many of you, I have more than 12 years of experience with community policy that we must not be so busy with municipal policies. I am very happy for the two groups of petitioners who have actually enabled us to discuss this urgent matter, but I will mention two points nonetheless. [[16.10 hours]] In many ways, I disagree with the State's reconstruction, but I do not agree with my colleague Marek Benda here, because the representatives of the State's reconstruction, who were at a work meeting, even claimed themselves that the law was passed more stringent than they imagined on the premises of this House. So we are going so far - the former government - that it even adopted a law in relation to local politicians, which was even further away than the idea of the State's reconstruction. And then, and perhaps that would be a request to the Minister of Justice, it was said that the implementing decree still requires - he is not here - it requires even more - I greet you, Minister - that the decree or the implementing regulation you have is even stricter than that provided for in the law. [[Minister of Justice stands behind in an interview with Mrs Valachova]] And to you, Minister, there is a great request, because we have put a lot of municipal policies in an unsolvable situation. They have employment contracts in which they are told not to give information about their salaries, and at the same time we ask them to do so by law. I would like to ask the representatives in the working group who will participate in the compromise proposal to really consider whether it is still possible to put a transitional provision on the non-sancionisation of existing municipal politicians who did not know what they were getting into. And we have put them in an unsolvable situation: either they must give up their mandate and leave, or they will not abide by what they have in their employment contracts. I think that, in this case, we should treat these municipal politicians in a transitional manner. And otherwise it is certainly very important that, especially because we are ahead of the municipal elections, we will have a novel that will not discourage municipal policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u11	Thank you, ma'am. So I see if I have any more factual points. Sorry. Would you like to speak with priority rights? . Yes, yes, I'm the one on the screen here, and I'm asking you to report in. [[Member Excellent from the rapporteur's table suggests that Mrs Valachová is about to speak.]] That was not a factual point, but an application for a general debate. So, madam, please, we have an application for a general debate from you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u12	Thank you, Mr President, dear colleagues, I would like to convey the opinion of the Social Democracy Club. We support the release to the second reading of the proposal from the KDU-ČSL workshop, we support the modifications in this spirit. And I would just like to say that, of course, from the point of view of the debates that we are conducting across the political parties, we support such a solution that all officials will therefore continue to give notice to the register fairly. However, given that many of these officials are unreleased and, of course, at the moment, they are publishing their own revenue, for example, not revenues that come from public budgets, we consider that the protection of the right to privacy is an argument enough for these data to be made public next time in the register by means of amendments to which we will undoubtedly arrive. This means taking into account the protection of the right to privacy from the point of view of proportionality to the public interest and transparency. From my point of view, I can also say that, as Chair of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, I consider this to be quite proportional and that the direction is correct in my opinion, too, from the point of view of constitutionality. So much for the position of social democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u13	Thank you, Madame. So here I have a request for a factual remark - Mrs Jana Černochová - and before that, I will read one more apology. The first Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Jan Hamáček, apologizes for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 16 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Madame, make a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Maybe I'm lucky that, unlike my colleague Langšádlová, through you, the State's reconstruction never signed anything because I'm never gonna let any lobbyists blackmail me. But about what was said here in their defense, which I don't understand. You may not know this, colleagues, maybe a part of the Defence Committee knows about it, where I pointed it out several times, but the reconstruction of the state, and a fellow Pirates, called it dirtier than I will call it, gave so-called "sustainable" some of the Departments of State Reconstruction, namely the Ministry of Defence in one year I suspect it was about half a million crowns, in the next year it was about a quarter of a million crowns. So just so we know who we've been dealing with all these years, and who maybe some of you who've succumbed to them have the honor to continue. Like I said, I never succumbed to the reconstruction of the state, I didn't sign anything, and I knew very well why I was doing it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u15	Well, thank you. And before that, I have applications for the general debate, two, but with the de facto remark of Mr Kalousek. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u16	Excuse me, I'm just going to respond to Mrs Černochová. I'm here this morning opposed the term "shut-down" in connection with the restitution of church property. Now I also want to turn against the term "sustainable" on the part of the state's budgetary organisations towards the State's reconstruction. It wasn't any shabby, it was just corruption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u17	Well, thank you, Mr Kalousek, so now I have another point of fact. Wait a minute. So, Mrs Černochová is disturbing, and with priority rights... So I have here for the general debate - Mrs Věra Kovářová, then I have Mr Výborný and Mr Bartoš has also applied. Please. So in that order, I'm going to ask you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u18	Thank you for the floor. Let me propose, in the context of the general debate, that the House Press 33 shortens the time limit for committee discussions to seven days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u19	Well, thank you, Madame. And now I'm going to ask Mr. Výborný. I have here, as far as the pirát are concerned, an application for a general debate by Mr Jakub Michálek, who also has a preferential right, so I can have the first Mr Bartoš. You guys aren't gonna figure out who's gonna go first. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, I'm just here to make sure it's all right. I have two suggestions. To the House press no. 34 I propose according to § 91 para. The Rules of Procedure shall reduce the time limit for the negotiation of the law to seven days. And the second proposal - I propose that the Committee on Constitutional Law be a guarantee committee for the discussion of this proposal and that the proposal be further discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. It is fully in the context of the agreement from yesterday's working group of President Vondráček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u21	Well, thank you. And now, with priority rights, President Ivan Bartoš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on this law. Maybe the debate got away a little bit, that there was some kind of State Reconstruction or not. Here is the legislation, which was primarily responsible for banning elected representatives at all levels. I'm sure you've also filled in your income register, your assets, your real estate, your loans, your financial liabilities, your businesses. The debate that has arisen, and it is completely valid, are municipalities and are representatives, officials - we are not talking about all the representatives - who are not relaxed in the regime, and who are actually publishing some of the data to them, can cause problems within the framework of the existence of the community in which they may be concerned or are acting as mayor, and in some cases they may get into conflict, for example, within the framework of their contractual obligations towards the employer, where it is a condition that they do not publish their income. Now the question that was raised. Is this discriminatory? Yes, in small villages this may be a problem, really these people are basically volunteers. In the proposals that appeared - there were two, it was the STAN proposal and it was the KDU-ČSL proposal. The KDU-ČSL proposal went in such a simple way - both proposals are now loaded. That's where the paragraph was released, or the definition of unreleased, and that's where this law would apply, this law, this obligation, actually only for the released, and for all the unreleased, this obligation would no longer be. That's not the right solution. In the second proposal that... [[A group of Members speak with their backs to the speaker]] Sorry, can I just ask - they're having fun here, Mr President, if I may ask. Well, I'll try to keep going, though.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u23	Yes, please calm down in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u24	And in the second proposal, another one went the other way, and that was STAN's proposal - let's make the whole thing impossible. Here he also appeared, I think, the minister in the opening debate at the previous meeting of the House and talked about the fact that the questioning to other parts of the registry, the address number, when you e-mail and fill out the form, I want to know, is in such a way used, so massively that actually the fact that it is not available online at the moment without any request on the Internet, and the fact that it is made available on some request is practically one and the same thing, because the barrier is virtual only. We have historically discussed whether the annual reports of political parties in the Chamber of Deputies for public consultation and the published annual reports on the Internet are any two levels of public opinion. It's not like that. So to return to this bill. For us, therefore, for the pirát, neither of these two amendments is appropriate. Indeed, after the debate that took place for about a month, it is desirable to follow a compromise, where - and this was the result of yesterday's group's negotiations - where we are talking about the fact that there really should be everything for control and for municipalities of type 1, which may not be able to manage some extreme property repeatedly, for a long time, there is no billionaire or millionaire registered there, so there really does not have to be a need for full transparency for these municipalities. Unfortunately, this proposal is now not shown in either of these two files that we are discussing at once. It should be a compromise proposal, and perhaps it should have been the amendment that we were supposed to vote on here today. So I guess it's important to deal with this issue. The problem exists, neither STAN nor KDU-ČSL's current proposals address it correctly. As pirát, we cannot support him, and we think that if a compromise result has just come out of negotiations yesterday, it is not even appropriate for this to be discussed in a short procedure now on committees. If we want the Committee on Public Report and Regional Development to discuss this, then there is no reason to go for a reduction of seven days just because the committee would have to be convened somewhere ad hoc next week and deal with this matter urgently, and I think that if the results were delivered yesterday, it is foolish and irresponsible to say that in seven days we can really have all things resolved, justified and communicated. So at the end. The problem needs to be solved. Neither of these proposals addresses it in the right way, reflects what has been agreed, and we should definitely not discuss it in some forced reduced time, we should go to a standard hearing time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister, and I have a request for a factual point. Mr. Radek Holomčík, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask myself this perhaps rhetorical question: is it not by chance a civil duty to report such a fact to law enforcement authorities?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u27	I thank the honourable Member and now I have an application for a general debate, Mr Jakub Michálek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to make a factual comment on the proposals that have been put forward here. First of all, the pirate party has been elected to promote transparency in all cases, and that is what we intend to do in these cases. If we look at the two House prints, the House press 33 from the Mayors contains in § 13 para. 3 that the words are added there on request. This would mean, in practice, that, on request, it would be accessible not only to the ownership of municipal representatives in small villages, but also to the ownership of Members and Senators. Well, it really seems to me that it didn't quite work out that, with the alleged problem of small municipalities being dealt with here, there were some strange coincidences that Members themselves got under it. So I would ask that we not go this way, because then, of course, people are very surprised by what is being born in this Chamber of Deputies. As regards proposal 34, the proposal submitted to the People's Party introduces that Paragraph 10 and Section 11 would not apply to public officials referred to in Section 2 (2) of the Act. Article 4 (1) (a) (q) or even loose mayors. Including the city parts. Again, we can imagine that in some part of Prague's capital city, for example in Prague 4, some mayor will decide that it will be unrelaxed, but it will manage the property that is in order - the budget of a billion crowns. So these are really large amounts, and once again this chosen solution is not appropriate. Therefore, it seems logical to me that if we are even to talk about any new exception to the principle of transparency, so that it is formulated only very limitedly for unreleased representatives from the smallest municipalities, with the smallest municipalities I mean the municipality, which has managed with some amount over the last three years, which does not exceed a certain limit and which does not even have any large assets. Because we know examples of municipalities that are very, very rich, they have high incomes, even if they are tiny, they have a small population or, on the contrary, have considerable assets. In our view, this should be defined in such a way that the exceptions really only apply to the dislodged representatives of the smallest municipalities, which was the declared interest of the two proposals submitted. I would also like to comment on the procedure for discussing this bill. Of course, we also did not agree to discuss this under Section 90, and we do not agree that the time to discuss this proposal should be reduced to seven days, because within seven days I am really afraid that this Chamber of Deputies, with all the great respect I have for it, will not be able to produce a good legislative proposal. For example, we are willing to propose 15 days. That is what I think is a time when at least the two committees that are responsible can meet, and we can let it lie in our heads, we can correct the mistakes that will be there, and at that time it can basically be done. Therefore, on behalf of the Pirates and TOP 09 MEP, I would like to raise an objection to the proposals put forward to shorten the time, in the case of press No. 33 and 34 in those cases where the period of shortening is less than 15 days, and at the same time submit a proposal to shorten the period of discussion of the two proposals to 15 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u29	I thank President Jakuba Michálek and I have here a request for a factual comment from Mr Marek the Výborný. [[He's not interested anymore.]] Mr Member, you are interrupting your point of order, so I will delete you, and I have Mr Třešňák registered for a proper general debate. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u30	Thank you. Good afternoon. I, in fact, only briefly and in general, not specifically, on the proposals. Of course, the debate has slipped to the lowest sphere of municipal policy and small municipalities, but, for example, those small municipalities usually don't even have advice, and I understand or perceive the problem, when, for example, unreleased council members have to state their private income, where there is already a problem, and I also see that when someone enters politics, it is more possessive and, for example, whether it is artwork, securities, however, the entry into politics and the communal one should be considered clearly in advance. And if I take it from my plane, so what most of us put there, or at least in my opinion, I'm going to introduce the house, I'm going to introduce the car, but in the words of classics, I don't even have to mention it, everyone can see that. So, personally, I don't have a problem with the current adjustment as it runs. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u31	Thank you and Mr Benda, factual point. Excuse me? You are reporting, yes, to the general debate. So please, you have the floor, because I don't have another logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u32	Mr Vice-President, I come up with one more proposal on the side of shortening the deadlines so that, in my opinion, it makes a little bit of sense. But one comment on what the Member has just said Cherry: I have a house, I have a car. I don't know who you've filled out this confession now, and who you've read the complexity that goes out, the accounts - if I have ten, I don't have to mention any if I have 450,000 in pension savings and 450,000 in life, I'm not saying anything. If I happen to be in a situation where I have over half a million in one account, I have to. If that's what we think is logical, then I don't think it's too logical. It's just a way to smash and trick people into cheating. I don't care. I have over half a million in one account, I said. It was just because my salary came and by the decisive date I had 519,000, the week before I was below 500, the week after that I was below 500. Depends on how you choose. It seems to me that there really are some completely undignified things. [[16.30 hours]] I should, however, have consulted with President Michálek, who agrees to reduce the time limit to 20 days, so that there is really room for discussion on committees normally, calmly and peacefully during the committee week. The same closest House to discussing this is in a variable week from 20 March. Until then, we'd have to make it. And for that was given the veto of two clubs. Then it seems logical to me if we sit in a variable week - and so far, according to how we are doing in the House, I think that if we lose the ceremony at the Prague Castle next Thursday, we won't do so much, so we could meet in a variable week, and then I consider it meaningful to cut to 20 days, so that the committees can really have time and they can do 20. 3. Think about it. I think there's a lot more trouble than they've been named so far. Not that I believe everyone can be solved, but maybe we can move a little further. Of course, my proposal to shorten to 20 days concerns both bills so that we can discuss them at the same time. We're gonna make a compilation out of it on the Constitutional Law Committee. We can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u33	Well, thank you. And then I have one more request for a factual comment, so Mr. Jakub Michálek. Ambassador, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u34	Just for the record, I've really agreed to the proposals of Mr. Benda's previous speaker, and I'm downloading the earlier proposals for shortening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u35	Okay, so let's make a note of this. So I no longer have a request for a general debate or a factual point, so I will ask - I would therefore like to end the general debate and ask the appellants and rapporteurs if they are interested in a final word. You do. So, the plaintiff, Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for hearing how our proposal, which is the House's press 33 and, at the same time, my fellow Members, which is the House's press 34. I beg you to support the second reading. In view of what you have heard here, there are certain risks and, at the same time, there is an agreement on a comprehensive amendment, so I ask you to release the House press 33 into second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u37	So thank you for the final word on print 33 point 8. And now I'm going to ask if there's an interest in the final word for press 34 9. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to ask for your support and your release for second reading. We are, of course, ready to act within the time limits approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I would also like to make it clear here that I believe that the agreements which are also concluded orally at the meeting of the working group at the President of the House of Radek Vondráček are valid. And for myself, maybe oral agreements are sometimes more than written. So I believe that this is the case here in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your support for this press. You have been informed of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-013-901.u39	Thank you for the final words and we will now address the point
