ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-005-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 91/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, please the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jaroslava Němcová and I ask her to present this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-005-004.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the content of the government bill before you, you have already been informed at first reading. Nevertheless, allow me to reiterate what the purpose of this proposal is. This is a clarification of the provisions of § 271b para. In such a way as to avoid unjustified differences in the procedure for calculating compensation for loss of earnings after the termination of the employment incapacity of the staff member due to an accident at work or occupational disease, where the staff member fails to obtain any earnings for the calculation of the compensation for loss of earnings in other cases due to unemployment and subsequent management in the register of jobseekers, it shall take into account, within the meaning of that provision, the earnings of the minimum wage. In the calculation of this compensation, insurance companies that carry out statutory insurance of the employer's liability for damage to an accident at work or occupational disease, which is in our Republic Česká pojišťovna, a. s., and Kooperativa pojišťovna, a. s., apply a different procedure. While the Česká pojišťovna accounts for the current amount of minimum wage as achieved, Kooperativa pojišťovna is based on the minimum wage applicable at the time when the damaged candidate became a candidate for employment. That different procedure for calculating the refund results in a reduction of the compensation for loss of earnings by the Česká pojišťovna at any increase in the minimum wage by the amount of the minimum wage granted, whereas in the case where the compensation for loss of earnings is granted by Kooperativa pojišťovna, there is no reduction of the compensation granted. The Government's bill therefore aims to avoid any increase in the minimum wage to reduce that compensation, i.e. to follow the procedure that Kooperativa insurance company applies today, not Česká pojišťovna. The bill in question was drafted as a response to the proposal by Members of Mr Kaňkovský and Mr Nacher, who submitted a similar proposal. It was House Press No 22, which is not complex, however, since it does not contain an adjustment to the calculation of compensation for loss of earnings for members of security forces and professional soldiers, i.e. persons who, like the employees who are entitled to that compensation under the Labour Code, find themselves in the same situation where, after the termination of their service as job seekers, they are taken into account as earning the minimum wage. For this reason, the Government has taken a negative position on the parliamentary proposal and the Government's draft law already eliminates and does not contain the abovementioned shortcomings of the parliamentary proposal. The Committee on Social Policy, which was designated as a guarantee committee for this bill, discussed it on 29 March and recommended that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic give its consent to this government proposal. This committee also discussed the amendment tabled by Mr Kaňkovský. Since this proposal goes beyond the envisaged draft law, the sole purpose of which is to unify the two insurance companies' procedures, I take a negative position on this proposal. This negative opinion was also adopted by the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, by which the amendment was sent to my department for comments, as it also concerns them factually and legislatively. In order to achieve the main purpose of the law, I will support its approval at third reading in government form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-005-004.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We ordered this proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as press 91/1. I ask the rapporteur of this committee, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, to inform us of the discussion of the committee proposal and to justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-005-004.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The report on the draft amendment to Act No 262/2006 Coll., the Labour Code, as amended, and other related laws, will be very short. The Minister has already repeated the matter, and I would just like to underline what this proposal is about. It is proposed that it be made clear that, for earnings after an accident at work or after an occupational disease has been established, when it is necessary to... Therefore, it is deducted from the amount of the insurance rent... in cases where fictitious earnings are to be determined, earnings of the minimum wage applicable on the day of inclusion in the employment applicant's register shall be considered. It is a reaction to the fact that, although positive increases in minimum wage, it is harmed to people who are injured after an accident at work or after an occupational illness. To determine the amount of compensation for loss of earnings, accounting for the current amount of the rising minimum wage would mean a reduction in the compensation granted. The proposed adjustment is therefore more favourable for damaged accidents at work or occupational diseases. This proposal, as the Minister said here, has already been tabled as a parliamentary proposal on the initiative of the National Council of Disabilities, Mr Kaňkovsky and Mr Nacher. The government proposal we are debating is based on this parliamentary proposal and extends it to address the same situation with members of the security forces and professional soldiers that did not contain the parliamentary proposal. The effectiveness of the proposal shall be the day of publication. The first reading of this bill was 21. 3. and a seven-day period has been fixed for its consideration. The Committee discussed the proposal within a short period of 29 March. He adopted a resolution that I will then introduce you to. However, I must say that no amendment has been made to the committee. However, the debate took place on possible adjustments, the possible amendment was debated, but it was not tabled on the committee and was not voted. The Committee then adopted a resolution on the following text: Following the reasoning of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mrs Marie Bílková, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Petr Hůrka, News Report by Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková and after the debate by the Social Policy Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree with the Government's bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labour Code, as amended, and other related laws, and empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinion to the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. That's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-005-004.u5	Thank you and I am opening a general debate. I have one application so far, Mr Kaňkovský's application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-005-004.u6	Good afternoon, Mr President, dear colleagues, fellow Members of the government. As I mentioned here at the first reading of this bill, the KDU-ČSL MP will support this government proposal, koneckonců all, as has already been said here, it is based on our parliamentary amendment, which we have tabled with my colleague Patrik Nacher as House Press 22. After the discussion of this government amendment in the regime of § 90 para. 2, we have outlined some problems here in plenary that are linked to the compensation of people after accidents at work or in people who have admitted occupational disease. Then we continued this discussion with the Committee on Social Policy, and we are all aware that the current legislation on compensation after accidents at work is very complex and a new system needs to be sought towards the future, both in terms of organisation and overall implementation of these compensations. However, I think that since this amendment has already been tabled and the discussion has not come out in a short reading, at least the problems need to be named. That is why we have also used some of the problems that are particularly plagued by people who worked in the mining profession, as well as other workers who are affected by occupational or occupational injury, between committee meetings and second reading of the opportunity to consult representatives of the National Council of Persons with Disabilities at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. There are often glassmakers, workers of rustles and some other professions. Of course, I feel the need to approve this amendment as soon as possible, which is why we have revised some possible initiatives to make amendments significantly. I will read only one change in the detailed debate today, which concerns directly the paragraph 3 of Section 271b, where the words "first" are added. Why is this one word so important? By this arrangement, if we were to accept it, it is clearly stipulated that earnings after an accident at work or after the detection of an occupational disease are considered to be the earnings of the minimum wage applicable on the day of the first inclusion of the injured person in the employment applicant's register. These situations occur at a time when the economic conjucture and the disabled one, a person who has either been admitted to occupational disease or after an accident at work, finds employment, falls out of the register of job seekers, but at a time when he loses his job again, which happens for various reasons, but most often at a time when unemployment increases, after being re-registered as job seekers, the rent paid to him is reduced precisely because in the meantime he went into employment. We regard this measure as discriminatory and, above all, it urges those damaged people either to remain in the register of job seekers or to move in the grey zone. I am convinced that this cannot be a concern of society so that people who have already been damaged by an accident at work have more or less permanent, mostly even relatively severe disability, to prevent them from rejoining society and even working life. For this reason, I would like to ask you, in the third reading, to support this simple amendment, which I will then read in the amendment, because it is the matter in question, to follow up on the subject matter relating to the Government's bill, and indeed to clarify conditions for those insurance companies, so that they know clearly how to proceed. So much for me at this time and in a detailed debate, then I will read the proposed amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-005-004.u7	Thank you. I will ask for further applications for the general debate. If you don't, I'm done. I will ask the final words after the general debate. No need. Nothing voted out, so I am opening up a detailed debate and I have one application, which is again Mr Kaňkovský. Before they arrive, I will apologise to Mr Bláha, between 16 and 19 o'clock, for the sake of the election process.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-005-004.u8	Once again, good afternoon, dear colleagues, only briefly. I would like to sign up for an amendment to House press 91, which is registered in the system under the number of House document 551. As far as the reasoning is concerned, this has already been said in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-005-004.u9	Thank you. Furthermore, I do not see anyone in the detailed debate, so I am also ending it. Final words? Madam Secretary? No. I have to ask. The rapporteur? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-005-004.u10	I am merely saying that there has been one amendment in a detailed debate and, as rapporteur, I support this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-005-004.u11	Nothing else came up, that is. There's nothing to vote, so I'm done with this point. Let's continue with point number
