ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-000-000.u1	Dear colleagues, it is 9 o'clock, so I am opening this meeting and I welcome you here. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the third day of the 16th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. Please log in with your ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. With the replacement card number 2, Mr Jaroslav Dvořák will vote. I am saying that the Kobza Josef a MemberPetr Jaroslav on the Válková of Blaha European Karla's Bělobrádek on the Šlechtová of the European Pavel's Jiří on the Valenta of the European Vlastimil's Válek on the Monika Pavel's Langšádlová on Špičák Veselý of the European TomášPetr Hanzel on the European Stanislav's Pavel on the Ondřej Kolovratník's Fridrich on the European Parliament's decision Pekarová the European Adam's Birke on the European Parliament's decision Gazdík the European Kopřiva's František on the Martin Parliament's František on the Miroslav Parliament's Mihola on the European Parliament's Jiránek on the Martin Parliament's decision on the European Parliament's Pavel Juříček the European Radovan's decision on the European Jurečka's decision on the European Parliament's decision on the European JiříDana Balcarová on the European Vích's Marian Kalous the Martin Baxa's decision on the European Parliament's decision on the EuropeanParliament 's decision on the EuropeanHájek Andrea Babišová on the EuropeanParliament 's Elfmark on the EuropeanParliament 's decision on the OndřejParliament 's decision on the EuropeanParliament 's Kytýr on the EuropeanJaroslav 's Jiří on theIlona. Mr Rostislav Vyzula for family reasons, Mr Lubomír Zaorálek for foreign travel and Mr Radek Zlesák for foreign travel. Mrs Balaštíková will vote with replacement card number 8, Mr Bartoš with replacement card number 7. Mrs Balaštíková has been apologizing to us since 14:30 on account of a foreign trip. We are also apologized by the following members of the government: Prime Minister Andrej Babiš due to foreign travel, Minister Richard Brabec within 10 hours for work reasons, Minister Tatána Malá until 14.30 for work reasons, Minister Antonín Staněk for work reasons, Minister Dan Ťok until 16.30 for work reasons, Minister Miroslav Toman within 13 hours for personal reasons. Next, I received the following note. Mr Kaňkovský apologizes to us from today's meeting between 9 and 11 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Martin Stropnickýý apologizes to us throughout the day of the meeting for working reasons. That would be an apology. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 103, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their lottery draw will then take place. We will proceed to discuss the point
