ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u1	73. Government bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 91/ - third reading I will ask that the rapporteur's seat be taken for the plaintiff of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jaroslava Němcová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 91/2, which was delivered on 11 April this year. The resolution of the Guarantee Committee has been delivered to you as House Press 91/3. I ask the appellant, Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That's right. I'll ask the House for peace. And Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, the Government's bill specifying the provisions of Paragraph 271b (1). 3 The Labour Code governing the calculation of compensation for loss of earnings after the termination of the disability at work caused by an accident at work or occupational disease in the case of job seekers and other related laws, was presented in detail and justified in both first and second readings. Just to remind you. Its purpose and purpose is to clarify the provision of the Labour Code in question in such a way as to clearly determine what minimum wage is considered to be achieved in respect of jobseekers, and it did not occur that each of the two insurance undertakings which exercise legal insurance of the employer's liability for damage to an accident or occupational disease took into account its different amount in the calculation of the compensation. The Government's draft law provides that the minimum wage applicable at the time when the victim became a candidate for employment will already be taken into account in a uniform manner, not in the current minimum wage, which reduces the compensation for loss of earnings in respect of each increase. The proposed regulation concerns not only employees who are granted compensation for loss of earnings under the Labour Code, but also professional soldiers and members of the security forces, for whom the minimum wage is also considered to be achieved at a time when they are being led as job applicants. The draft law was submitted by Mr Kaňkovský, doktor 91/2, two amendments identical to the provisions of § 271b para. 3 The Labour Code and the provisions related to the Act on the Service of Security Corps Members. The amendment complements the Government's draft law by taking into account the minimum wage applicable on the date of its first inclusion in the register for each subsequent registration of the applicant for employment. Moreover, the amendment would also affect the provisions of the Occupational Soldiers Act, which refer to the legislation of the Labour Code when calculating the compensation in question when taking into account the minimum wage level. The opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on the amendment is negative, in particular because its acceptance would create differences in the amount of compensation granted for loss of earnings between the groups of victims, without any factual reason. The basic principle of compensation, which is based on the causal link between an accident at work or an occupational disease and the loss of earnings, would also be denied. In the event that the termination of the second or third employment relationship of the staff member would occur e.g. because of the immediate abolition by the employer, that is to say the breach of the employee's obligation, his final conviction, the failure to meet the conditions for the performance of the work, then it is clear that the causal link between loss of earnings and accident at work does not exist at all. In addition, the employer, respectively. the insurance undertaking which provides compensation to the injured party will not have a real opportunity to determine the reason for the termination of the contract and will therefore not provide the compensation in accordance with the law. Thus, there is a risk that these damage will have to be applied to the court and there the causal link difficult to prove. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u3	Thank you, Minister Jaroslava Němcová, and I am opening a debate in which I have Mr Vít Kaňkovský's application. Is the rapporteur also reporting for the debate? No, not until the debate. A colleague of Kaňkovský's, then. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u4	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I would like to comment at my third reading on my amendment, which I tabled at second reading and which we are very detailed, unfortunately without my participation, but was also discussed very closely on the Committee on Social Policy, but we also discussed it very intensively with representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Shortly to the history of this press. It has already been said. In fact, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, my colleague Patrik Nacher and I began to address this issue. We have submitted the House Press 22, which has just addressed the compensation for loss of earnings. Then a government proposal was submitted that extended the group of people to the security forces and police. We have no problem with that and we support this change. Then the discussion began about other problems related to this issue. Based on this and the discussion that took place here at second reading, we discussed with representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I have to say, it was a fair discussion. Representatives of the National Council of Persons with Disabilities were present at the meeting. And those specific problems that were discussed with representatives of the damaged - and these are mainly miners, but also representatives of the metallurgical industry, glassmakers and some other professional groups - we tried to find solutions for them. In the end, it turned out that in the framework of this amendment, if we do not want to extend the amendment in any way, we are not able to solve all those issues, but at least one of them has tried to solve it, and this is precisely the fixation of the minimum wage, which is then used as a fictitious post-traumatic earnings in a situation where the person is registered at the employment office for the first time. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has put a negative breakdown into this, which we have responded with our legal breakdown, which was prepared by NRP lawyers, and this opposing attitude towards the decay of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has been sent to all of you. I can't agree with the secretary here, and it's nothing personal, I really appreciate her, the philosophy she was discussing here. If one of the citizens is harmed by an accident at work or an occupational disease, it's a permanent thing. The damage will never change. This means that we should then discuss the repeated inclusion in the employment applicant's records - and the situation in the individual victims is very individual - and we would go back to proving whether they were damaged or not, so we are somewhere completely different. The damage simply arose as a result of an accident at work, and if it is proven once, it is no longer worth it, and it is also unethical, to discuss it again. In order to show, over and over again, the miners or other professional groups that the damage has really arisen, I think it is really very unethical. This means that fixation at the level of first registration at the employment office has its logic. And it gives the victims the most certainty that if they have a residual job ability and want to work, they may not be concerned about finding a job that matches their disability. And when they lose it - and what we tell ourselves, they usually lose it at a time when the economy fails, and the first people who are next are the people who have some disability - so if they lose the job, they won't have to worry that if they re-enlist at the employment office, that the rent will be reduced. This is the principle of the amendment, where we add the first word to make it clear to the two insurance companies how to proceed. So, my dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to support this amendment so that these people really have a chance to reintegrate into social application, and that includes finding a job. So we don't drive them into a gray economy. Because at present, with the current wording of the law, that's what we do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u5	Thank you, Mr Kaňkovský. Mr Josef Hájek is now reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u6	Mr President, colleagues, I will try to be brief because the time is running out. Anyway, first of all, I would apologize to my colleagues at ODS, who I criticized for not approving it in the '90s. I admit, sometimes twice measure, once cut. It's true. So accept, colleagues, my apologies. Secondly, I follow the words of my colleague Kaňkovský, because really, when you look at it with common sense, it is about making it possible for these people - and I will speak for the miners - to be four thousand - to be able to work. Because if this guy's in the employment office, he's not entitled to a pension. This means, if he is long-term in the employment office and does not work, he is not entitled to a pension. That means 35 years ago today. If the person entered the employment office at 40 from accident or occupational disease and is under 65 years of age, that is the limit period for which the allowance is paid, he will reach 65 years of age and he will find out that he has worked for twenty years and is not entitled to a pension. That means it's part of the social system. So what is proposed in this amendment is that only the minimum wage at the level of the first entry into the employment office is actually being deducted, it has total logic, and it really is an incentive for all the groups we are talking about, that is, those affected miners, soldiers in the service, or police officers. So I call on all my colleagues here who have common sense, and that is the majority of us here to support the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u7	I thank Mr Hájek. Now, the rapporteur in the debate. Before I give her my word, Madam Secretary is reporting too. I state Mr Jiří Kobza's apology between 17 and 19 o'clock. Well, first the Minister and then the rapporteur. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u8	I apologize for the delay, but I'm only gonna take one more comment, so let's sum it up and be clear. That is, our government proposal says that whoever suffers an accident at work loses his job and is kept in the register of job applicants, so he gets a loss on earnings, a rent that equals his original earnings and decreases by nominal wages. This rent will not be reduced by valorising the minimum wage. We agree on that for a summary. However, Mr KaňkovskKaňkovský also states in his proposal that applicants should reduce the amount of minimum wage applicable on the day of the first entry to the employment office after the accident in all subsequent applications to the employment office in his life. However, this, and I must stress here, because the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is the guarantor of the Labour Code, is contrary to § 271b para. 3 sentence 2 of the Labour Code, which is also supported by case law and says that if he worked somewhere in the meantime, he will be based on the earnings he received there. So it's just for explaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u9	Thank you, Minister. Now, the rapporteur. We are still in the debate at third reading. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u10	I'm not gonna stall because we're in a bit of a time crisis. I just want to say for myself and for social democracy that we will support the amendment because it is better for the damaged ones.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u11	Thank you. Who's next for the debate? If no one, I am done with the debate. We can therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments and I will ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to present the various proposals, introduce us to the voting procedure, express her opinion, and I ask the Minister for the same thing. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u12	The guarantee committee discussed the press on 26. 4. and recommends: The Chamber of Deputies shall vote in the third reading on the proposals made in the draft law in the following order. Firstly, proposals for legislative technical adaptations, if they have been submitted. They weren't. Secondly, about the amendment as a whole and then vote on the bill as a whole. The Committee on Guarantees did not adopt an opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u13	Thank you. So we're going to have a fairly simple matter. We have one amendment, which is without the opinion of the guarantee committee, and legislative technical proposals have not been adopted. Anyone interested in voting on the procedure when it's that simple? It's not like that. But I'm gonna check you all out first. Please log in with your ID cards. [[12.20 hours]] We will vote on the procedure first, with one vote on A1 and A2 as a whole and then on the law as a whole. Wishing is not only the father of thought sometimes, but also... I've started voting number 46 and I'm asking who's in favour of this procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 46, from 162 Members present for 162. The motion has been accepted, the procedure has been approved. We can therefore vote on proposal A, i.e. A1 and A2 as a whole. It is without the committee's opinion. What is the Minister's position? [[The Minister's position is disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 47 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 47, from 169 in favour of 168, against no one. The motion was accepted. We can therefore vote on the bill as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labour Code, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 91, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I've started voting number 48 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 48, from 178 in favour of 177, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you, Madam Secretary, thank you to the rapporteur and end with paragraph 73. I state further apologies and one cancellation of the apology, and this cancels the apology from 12 o'clock for the reasons of work of Mrs Květa Matušovská. Martin Stropnický, Minister of Foreign Affairs, apologizes from 12 a.m. to 14.30 p.m. for business reasons. We have a few decisions to make. Paragraph 76 is now to be discussed under the agenda. However, we cannot discuss this because the time limit for its discussion has not yet expired, because there has not been a deadline between second and third readings. I have to say the same thing about item 83 when we discussed yesterday the Government's proposal for a CNB lending law for the IMF, but we did not shorten the deadline. Although this was without amendments, it is not possible to discuss these matters. That's why I'm putting them off. We will probably be dealing with that point until the government bill amending Act No. 374/2015 Coll., on recovery procedures and resolution of the crisis in the financial market, as amended by Act No. 183/2017 Coll., and other related laws, House print 94. But this is a proposal that cannot be discussed at this time either. Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u14	It's for the House's leadership. I still understand that one of the Members does not know exactly the Rules of Procedure, but the Office's staff should know. The three points that are shining on us there, 76, 83, 88, had a second reading yesterday. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, the time limit may be reduced, but not for seven days at most, not for seven hours. I don't understand how anyone can propose to discuss this when we can discuss it maybe next Wednesday. That'll work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u15	Mr. Chairman, I am aware of that. When I started reading the text of the press, I realized it was the same case as before. So I'm putting it off, too. We know that the time limits, when there are no amendments, are not 14 or 7, but it can be said at second reading that when amendments have not been tabled, they will be after 24 hours, that is in the Act on Rules of Procedure, but it must be done at second reading that this is the case. That's reality. But that was not said, Mr President, I understand. Mr. Stanjura, once again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u16	We have three minutes on point 17, we won't be able to make it, but when Vice-President Filip, in my opinion, gives misleading information, I may be wrong, and I would ask him to quote the paragraph on the basis of which we can discuss it today if we agreed to it yesterday. I don't think there's any such paragraph.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u17	I will, of course, try to find the relevant section of the Rules of Procedure, but the fact is that the third reading can be started not earlier than 14 days after receipt of the summary of the amendments tabled. The House may shorten the period according to the first sentence to a maximum of seven days. The proposal to shorten the time limit referred to in the first sentence must be made at second reading in the context of a detailed debate. At the third reading, there is a debate in which only legislative technical corrections and errors are proposed. So we are based on this, according to the philosophical interpretation of the text, that if there were amendments - such practice was here, please do not question it, such practice was really there - that third reading cannot be done when amendments are tabled. When amendments are not tabled, the text goes through so that there is no new press than the one that went through the second reading without amendments, because this is the conditional sentence, the third reading can be started at the earliest 14 days after the receipt of the summary of the amendments submitted. If amendments are not tabled, the press is filed and is on time. It's a logical modification, a philosophical interpretation of the text of the law. I will not quote here the theory of law and our classic legal theory from law schools in Prague, Brno, or Pilsen, Olomouc and Karlovy Vary. I would just like to point out that I still have nothing left but to start another point, so I took the liberty of questioning this in the meantime. The President of the House is still reporting. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u18	We will ask the legislative department to draw up an opinion on this. We think that the interpretation is correct, that the deadline for third reading does not really run in the absence of amendments. But it'll be the chairman of the club wearing black and white. Maybe it's a good thing it worked out just for this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-004-073.u19	There is even a precedent for past parliamentary periods when we have accepted this interpretation. But the truth is, we've always stated it at the end of second reading, so it's clear that we're going to be dealing with the third reading. I'm going to interrupt the second reading of the law. We have solid points 92, 93, 94, 95, 96 and 97 ahead. They're election points. As we agreed on the agenda, we will deal with them. First, we'll look at point number.
