ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-009-901.u1	The joint debate on points 23, 31 and 33 of the House press 35, 111, 117/ We are going back to the fact that the order for the referendum law is as it was in paragraph 23, with the fact that Mrs Helena Válková now has the floor on the point of fact. And I believe you understand why. I'll just give her the two minutes, then there's two more entries to the actual note, and then we'll proceed in order. So, Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-009-901.u2	Thank you. It is a really difficult, almost superhuman task to express in two minutes, but I am signed up for a proper debate afterwards. Only in the introduction would I like to underline the fact that we are present at a historic moment, where once again, after the consensus of several political parties, the question of a national referendum is on the agenda. This was also said at the seminar Possibility and limits of the national referendum, as mentioned here, held on 25 April 2018, where we also agreed, and you said so, Mr Vice-President, very specifically and precisely that none of the proposals currently in the House would be the optimal result of the legislative process. Neither of them is simply enough of the fundamental problems, the shortcomings that we need to address in the legislative process at second reading. You also said the form of a comprehensive amendment. Here I attach myself that it would be optimal for the government to take up this task. It's just a real comment. I would like to stress and thank you here that, even before the historic moment took place, and once again we are opening this issue with the hope that we will be able to enforce the constitutional law on the national referendum, these were, in particular, the SPD, the KSČM, the Pirates, the CSSD, the ANO movement, which, together with the informal working committee, have agreed on a procedure and ensure that we have the right, justified ideas and, let us say, trust that, here on the ground of the Chamber of Deputies, we will successfully enforce the Act on the Constitutional referendum. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-009-901.u3	Thank you. And with another factual remark, I have Mr Jan Hrnčíř's enrollment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-009-901.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal by Members from the ČSSD MP to issue the Constitutional Act on the National referendum, House press 111, I consider it pasquil, as citizens would not be able to approve any legislation or international treaties by referendum, or decide on the state budget, taxes or the appointment or removal of persons from office under this draft constitutional law. In order to call for a referendum, a disproportionately high number of electoral signatures would also be needed under petitions, and the conditions for binding such a vote would also be disproportionately strict. Our SPD movement has submitted a much more democratic bill, which is why I hereby propose that the House press 111 be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-009-901.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And another point of fact, Mr Marek Výborný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-009-901.u6	Mr Vice-President, dear fellow Members, I would like to return very briefly to what has been mentioned. We interrupted that point sometime in March until the time of the discussion in the course of the expert seminar, which was mentioned here by Mrs Válková. I was at the seminar, and I really must say that I was rather unpleasantly surprised because individual representatives of the professional public from my point of view were not chosen in a balanced manner. There were contributions that I would say were obviously one-sided if we were to be based on this expert seminar. So that's one thing that bothers me. Second thing. I also have to draw conclusions from the joint deliberations of the two Permanent Commissions for the Constitution, i.e. the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, where we have listened with our colleagues from our Commission, I would say, the very clearly communicated position of the representatives of the Senate, which I think we should also take into account, and in a situation where we have three proposals for a law on a general referendum, which obviously often goes against each other, of which the two proposals are from political entities that are preparing some joint government engagement at the moment, whether directly or indirectly, so I think that it would be appropriate to unify these matters not by means of a comprehensive amendment. I believe that the Act on a general referendum as a constitutional law is so serious that it should be dealt with before the first reading, and I therefore allow myself to put forward a procedural proposal for the negotiation of all three press open now to be suspended until the government has gained confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-009-901.u7	So we have a procedural proposal that we will vote on immediately. So, folks, I'm gonna have to go, I'm gonna call all the Members to the Chamber. Do we have an application for a check-out, or do we not? Yes, I'll check you out. Log in again with your voting cards. So I will once again ask the Members to sign up with their voting cards. [[12.40 hours]] I will repeat Mr Excellent's proposal, which we will be voting on. The proposal is to suspend the negotiation of referendum laws until the current government has gained confidence. [[Busy in the hall.]] Government trust, sorry. Not today, of course. That's why I fixed myself right away. Until the government's trust. So I'm opening the vote. Whoever is in favour of interrupting, press the button, raise your hand. Those who oppose interruption, press the button, raise your hand. Voting number 112, registered 125, for 27, against 63, abstained 35. The motion for an interruption has been rejected. We will therefore continue the merged debate. Next, we have Mr Ondřej Veselý. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-009-901.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I only wanted to call on the petitioner for the SPD to save a little of his words, as part of your factual comment. In my opinion, Paskvil is a law that is imperfectly processed, i.e. he's got serious glitches. Our law is well established. The fact that he doesn't like its contents is another matter. But please don't call him a paquilas, I'd like to challenge you first. And then when it comes to the wide range of citizens who have to join the referendum in order to be binding. Of course, it's a matter of negotiation. We've already reached a threshold of, say, 500 thousand by some kind of agreement. voters, too, are responding to the rapporteur. However, we know that this is a constitutional law and most of the Senate must join it, and there seems to be a problem. So we can make a deal here, but if we and the senators don't accept it, then the law will end up back in the backyard of history as usual. So please, let's look not only for a constitutional consensus between us, but also between us and the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-009-901.u9	There. Thank you. And with another point of fact, I call on Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-009-901.u10	Hello, esteemed colleagues. Just fast and really really. Social democracy has been proposing the Constitutional Act on a general referendum for the eighth time, for the ninth time, who knows if we have a tenth anniversary. And that's how it really is. Because it's a constitutional law, unfortunately, we've never gotten away with it. I believe the bill will pass this time. And to discuss whether he has big insurance policies or small insurance policies, whether he is cautious or not, I would like to quote quickly from the explanatory report: The proposed constitutional law is based on the fact that democracy is not complete on the one hand, unless it is part of the constitutional system for citizens to co-decision on fundamental issues. On the other hand, it respects the fact that, in a modern sophisticated society, representative democracy should be a regular form of state power, while direct democracy in the form of referendums should be a form of exceptional, complementary in representative democracy, and therefore should be used as saffron, but with all seriousness be respected. I therefore intercede to release the bill until further reading, because, of course, we are able to discuss the parameters of the terms of the referendum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-009-901.u11	Well, thank you. And another one with a factual remark by Mrs Helena Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-009-901.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I will only respond very lightly to the supposedly inappropriate selection of speakers. profesor Gerloch, doktor Hřebejk, doktor Kuba, doktor Kudrna, plus those who were able to comment in the debate, Mr. Výborný through Mr. President, these experts had the same view that it was appropriate to deal seriously, or legislatively, with a draft constitutional law on a national referendum. That's a procedural point. So I am very sorry that Mrs Kateřina Valachová, President of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, is not present here, because she has worked very hard on this, and I think that she should also monitor the course of the negotiations. From this overall debate, which is beginning to take such a form rather controversial and counterproductive in my view, I think that we should leave room for this law sufficient and we should create conditions where everyone who has dealt with it in the long term will be prepared to speak here and report on this very course of preparation and discussion of all these three proposals. I don't think the conditions for my unloving surprise have yet been established. Therefore, I propose that we interrupt the discussion of all these three proposals of the Constitutional Act on a national referendum, whether their names differ, but therefore this is a merged debate, until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, until the next proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you. That's a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-009-901.u13	There. So that's a procedural proposal. And then we'll vote on it. We will therefore have to vote on all three laws gradually, whether we will therefore agree to an interruption to the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So I'll reengage. [[Members are coming to the ballroom.]] I've consulted, so we're going to vote with one vote on all three at once. I'll check you out, please sign in with the voting cards again. Members are still running into the Chamber... I think we're here plus minus all of us. So I'm gonna repeat what we're gonna vote on one more time. Professor Válková proposed to interrupt all three press until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Whoever agrees, I'm taking the vote, please press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 113, 114 Members registered, for 94, versus 1, abstained 19. The motion was accepted. So I'm interrupting these three press releases on the referendum until the next meeting. We will therefore now continue the agenda for the parliamentary meeting. Let me read the apology. Friday 25th. 5., today, until the end of the day, Mr Julius Špičák apologizes for reasons of work. We will now proceed to discussing this point.
