ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u1	117. Members of Václav Klaus, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended /house print 61/ - second reading I ask that the plaintiff, Václav Klaus, take his place at the rapporteur's table. I also ask that Mr Lukáš Bartoň, who is the rapporteur, take the position. Instead of the absent Václav Klaus, the plaintiff will be represented by Mr Baxa. I don't have any information where we left off, unfortunately. But I suppose we're in the debate, there have already been opening words. [[Voices from the O.R.]] We're just getting started. In that case, please refer to Mr Baxa as the appellant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u2	Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly speak here to the bill in question, which has now been read in the second reading at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. This is a proposal for an amendment to the Education Act, i.e. amendment of Act No. 561/2004 Sb., which was submitted in January this year. This draft law, or the draft amendment to the school law, has already been discussed in detail at first reading. He passed the committees. So I would like to sum up what this is all about. These are two parts, respectively the proposal for an amendment of two parts of this law. Both relate to pre-school education. The first proposed amendment is a change aimed at abolishing the last compulsory year of schooling at kindergarten. It is a topic that is very topical given that we have been through, if I am not mistaken, the first school year in the spirit of the amendment that was adopted in the last parliamentary term. Suggestors, that is, Members of the Civic Democratic Party, propose that this last compulsory school year be abolished in kindergarten. The reason for this is that, in a situation where this amendment to the school law was being prepared, this was intended to bring children of parents who do not give their children to kindergartens into kindergartens, in fact, in a situation where more than 90 percent of the children of the relevant age cohorts attend the last year of schooling in kindergarten. In our view, this amendment shows that it has missed its effect, that is, those children who should go to kindergarten do not go there, even though there is still an effective tool to help these children, and these are the preparatory classes of primary schools. However, what happened after the adoption of this amendment to the school law was that a large number of administration had been placed on the principals of kindergarten schools, which had not been dealt with at all in kindergarten until then. This is the whole process of apologizing, registering these children. His life was very complicated for parents who, for various reasons, did not take advantage of attendance to the final year of the kindergarten in their children, and he is creating a very expensive, complicated and annoying bureaucracy, which, in our opinion, is not needed and which, above all, fails to fulfil the purpose of this acceptance. We therefore propose that compulsory schooling be abolished until the final year of kindergarten, and we therefore propose, among other things, that the extension of compulsory schooling be abolished, which is already long enough in the Czech Republic. This is therefore the case with regard to the abolition of compulsory attendance at the final year of kindergarten. [[There's noise in the room.]] And now on the second proposal tabled by Members of the Civic Democratic Party in the subsequent amendment to the School Act, this is about the attendance of children under the age of three in kindergarten. The citizens' democrats stress in this proposal...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u3	Are you asking for peace? Yes. I hear there's a rush here in the House, even up here, so please calm down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u4	Thank you, Mr President. In this second part, an amendment to the school law is proposed to abolish the guarantee of places in kindergartens for two-year-olds, if I say so simply. In the last parliamentary term, I will recall when this amendment to the school law was adopted, this happened on the basis of the amendment tabled in the House plenary. It was not a government proposal, it was not accompanied by the usual procedure, which amendments to the laws are accompanied. It was a measure that arose from the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies and was subsequently approved. I would like to point out, in particular, three important aspects which are linked to this measure and which, in our view, are the reason for this measure to be repealed in the school law. The first is a fact to ensure a self-educational process in kindergartens. We want to stress that kindergartens are educational institutions where education is provided according to the relevant framework education programme and, on the basis of decades of practice, this education is adapted to children from three years above, if I say so quite simply. This, if two-year-olds were to be directed to a much greater extent than they have so far, would fundamentally change the atmosphere and, above all, the whole educational process in kindergartens, because children between the ages of two and three are adapted to a completely different approach than that of children over three years of age, and the educational environment in kindergarten schools would change very significantly. That's the reason. The second reason is that, in our opinion, kindergartens are not prepared for this rapid change in sufficient personnel. Kindergarten staff, teachers in kindergartens primarily do not have the proper equipment, meaning material, but also in terms of educational approach, but also sufficient number to be able to spend more time with two-year-olds. If education in kindergartens is already very difficult today and if we want to maintain the long tradition and quality that education in Czech kindergartens has, this would certainly mean a big step backwards. As regards the third reason why this draft amendment to the Education Act is presented, it is related to the fact that the application of the flat-rate guarantee to all two-year-olds in kindergartens would have a huge impact on the budgets of municipalities and cities in the Czech Republic. Since the amendment was submitted by the Civil Democratic Party, many of us Members of the Civic Democratic Party, but I suppose other parties represented in the House have been kind of targeted by representatives of cities and municipalities, various associations who have addressed Members with support for this amendment because kindergartens in their cities and in their municipalities would often have to be expanded in many cases in a relatively short time, without, as in many cases, any compensation from the state has been given to municipalities. Among other things, in many cities and municipalities in some regions of the Czech Republic, the capacity of kindergartens is still insufficient, and we are talking about the capacity of kindergartens where three-year-olds go. This extension, this fulfillment of the guarantee for two-year-olds to go to kindergartens, would bring huge costs, which represent a large one-off burden for municipalities and cities in the Czech Republic, and certainly provided that the State does not compensate for this would involve a significant impact on their budgets and on life in municipalities and cities. [[16.10 hours]] I would like to point out, in conclusion, that the proposal for this amendment does not mean that two-year-olds should be forbidden access to kindergarten in quotation marks. As I spoke with a number of you, as I spoke with the mayors of municipalities and towns in the Czech Republic, it is common that already two-year-olds can attend kindergarten according to their potential spatial and personnel capacities. However, a completely different situation is that it is up to the voluntary decision of the kindergarten, the director, the principal of the kindergarten or the founder, while what is in the current version of the school law would mean a direct obligation for two-year-olds to receive into preschool education. Ladies and gentlemen, so much for presenting the proposal for an amendment to the School Act from the Civil Democratic Party's pen. And, of course, we believe in supporting this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u5	Thank you, too. We have already ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 61/2 and 61/4. I ask that Mr Lukáš Bartoň, Mr Bartoň, take the floor and inform us of the committee's proposal, and any amendments should be justified. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u6	Thank you for the floor. The Education Committee discussed the amendment to the Act on 9 May 2018 and you can find it as the House Press 61/4. I will also point out that this is a corrected resolution, which is over four, and this replaces the House's press 61/3. The Education Committee discussed the proposed amendment and adopted the opinion that it recommended that the Chamber of Deputies agree with the Member's draft law and adopted amendments to it. Points one to three are numbered. The first point - in short, I will say that points 1 to 8 are deleted in the first part of Article 1, in other words, the Education Committee has adopted a resolution in which it wishes to maintain compulsory pre-school education. The second point is replaced by Article 34 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 where pre-school education is organised for children from three to six years of age, before being there from two, but first for children from two years of age, and adds the sentence: "A child under three years of age has no legal right to admission to a kindergarten'. He also adopted a third point, an amendment that puts back into play the delay in financing regional education, when we have been discussing a novel that aims to postpone funding by ten years. The Education Committee has now adopted an amendment to postpone regional education funding by two years. So much for discussing the school committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u7	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate to which Mrs Maxová, Mrs Gajdůškovášková, Mr Rais, Mrs Kozlová and Mr Mihola have signed up. However, Mr Gazdík will be the first to speak with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u8	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are in the second reading of the amendment to the Education Act, which was originally intended to concern, as the applicant here said, only pre-school education and compulsory places for two-year-olds in kindergartens, which were perfectly justified. I have a reservation on one thing. I do not understand why Mr. Václav Klaus Jr., who is the main plaintiff, votes against his own proposal in the school committee when he will bury the compulsory pre-school year. That's incomprehensible to me and a little schizophrenic. However, what's become of the school bill and what we're dealing with now, the main thing is something completely different. Thanks to the fact that he passed the younger proposal to postpone the reform of regional education funding for another two years, thanks to the votes of YES and Václav Klaus, the law becomes something completely different. It is only unfortunately a normal amendment, but I dare to strongly warn here at the House plenary in a strong way about the adoption of this amendment, because we would thus bury Czech education as the House. I'll tell you a specific case. The entire Czech regional education is missing money this year. The Association of Regionals has read it for about CZK 2.3 billion. Thanks to this, the government really did, so let it be honored, and last week the government approved that CZK 1,023 billion will go to regional education. This week has already come to the brink of a specific quantification of what it will look like. And in my Zlín Region, where teachers' average wages are the smallest in the whole Republic, currently about 3,000 less than in the Liberec or Central Bohemia Region, so do you know how much will be added to teachers in the Zlín Region? Fifty crowns a month. In the words of fifty crowns a month! 50 crowns are added to their average personal supplement of 81 crowns. This is the result of student funding! And I strongly warn here, if this amendment is adopted, we will kill Czech education in at least four to five regions! I therefore very much appreciate Mr Vondrák's work as well as the activities of the Minister of Education, who actually did. President of the School Commission of the Regional Association, Mr Vondrák, a fellow Member, tabled an amendment which is, say, a compromise that does not postpone the reform of regional education funding for two years - which may also mean that it will always be on an economic cycle - but only postpones it for one year, with the Ministry considering some gradual start-up of the reform in 2019. So I dare to publicly support the amendment here, which did not concern the original intention at all, but it is essential for the functioning of Czech regional education, and this is the amendment of Mr Vondrák, to which I assume the Minister of Education will also sign up, because the Ministry of Education supports him according to my information. I therefore ask you very much to consider what amendments you will be voting for, because here the House can actually become a gravedigger of Czech education and an ideological view can mean that at least four or five regions next year will not even be on tariffs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u9	Thank you, too. I've been given priority rights by Minister Plaga, but before him, I have Mr Rais's factual comment, so please. A real point comes first. And by the time the MP gets to the chat room, I have a note here that I don't know if it's been loaded yet, but Mr Klaus apologizes to us from 15.30 to 17.30 for personal reasons. Now please make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u10	Have a good day. He partially answered his colleague Gazdík. The amendment has three parts. She agrees with two, the third one's troubled. The government was handling it. I suppose, of course, we will accept Ivo Vondrák's proposal, so there will be no financial drama in Zlinsky and other regions. And it's actually a formal matter so that if we approve the amendment, then the law-approval procedure, so that we divide it into three parts essentially and approve it in parts. I suppose we'd approve the first two. The third would be replaced more or less by the amendment by my colleague Vondrák. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u11	Thank you, too. Now, please, the Minister. Vice-President Fiala will be ready. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u12	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the proposal as well as on the opening part of the debate. I will merely sum up the position of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports on the original proposal. But he has basically already spoken in this approved, at least partially, except for the two-year delay, in this already approved resolution by the school committee. So as regards the admission of two-year-olds to kindergarten, school, excuse me, first of all, I would like to reiterate that the Ministry of Education initially took a neutral position on this amendment. Indeed, and this debate, which also took place during the first reading, is quite essential in that the automatic obligation of all public founders to provide capacity to two-year-olds from 2020 is economically extremely difficult, in many respects impervious. And what has already been said here, but I think it is necessary to re-pronounce it, is that, of course, there is also a lack of staff in these municipalities to ensure it. That means, it's nice to give someone a duty, but if it's impossible to secure it, it's of little use. As far as ability is concerned, the possibility of receiving non-three-year-olds is concerned, I'm not going to say two-year-olds directly, so it's said here again - 45 thousand. children go to kindergartens this year, not three years old. So the founders, in my opinion, behave wisely in the given municipalities, and the general obligation is not something that solves the fundamental problem that we have. That is why this is in agreement with the proposal. As regards pre-school education obligations. I repeat, I believe that less than the first year of this obligation, although there are already some input data from these analyses, so it should not be - we probably disagree here, but that doesn't matter - it should not automatically be used this argument that it doesn't work after ten months to cancel this matter. Let's give it even more time, and let's just try, if the hard numbers make it look like it doesn't work the way we thought it would, let's look at ways and possible changes to make it work, but there's no point in disturbing it like that. The follow-up, which is a pre-school education payoff, is, of course, categorically the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports here is opposed to imposing pre-school education payments. As far as the pendant is concerned, i.e. delaying the change in regional education funding by two years, I actually confirm that, at the moment, on the basis of many trips of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports staff to the regions where we discuss the change of funding in detail with the Director, it seems beneficial for all parties involved. And the delay, virtually. the distribution within one year, so that from 1 January 2020, the financing of the cost really takes place, but - even what Mr Gazdík here said about the problems in the Zlín Region, yes, they are. And one way to bridge them - and it can't wait two years for this situation to be resolved, because the situation in some regions, and Zlínský is one of them, is really serious. So, from my point of view, Mr Vondrák's proposal is appropriate, with the fact that the year does not hesitate, from the point of view of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, but we will strengthen the component of kindergarten schools. But not by giving them an obligation, but by giving them the opportunity and resources to fund the 2.5-hour overlaps, or to extend the operating time. With regard to regional disparities and those regions that are not really well on the financial side, I suggest that, through the development programme, we help to fully implement the new funding method through the development programme. And then, and that's feedback from the school directors, they obviously need a PHmax run, that is, the number of hours maximum and setting that teaching really touch on model examples. And most importantly, they need to introduce it since September. Because they won't be chasing anyone anywhere since January, and they won't be involved in teaching, and they won't be changing schedules either. So for this reason, the next instrument for 2019 that we want to implement in the Ministry is the development programme so that the gradual start-up can take place from September 2019 and the full roll-over to the cost method of financing from January 2020. That is why I am expressing my support here to the unconfirmed yet, of course, but to the system of Mr Vondrák's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u13	Thank you, too. And I got a note here. So, Mrs Věra Procházková apologises to us today between 16.01.01 and midnight for work reasons. I now ask Vice-President Fiala to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already acted on this proposal at first reading and I have justified why we believe that it is necessary to get rid of the obligation for all children to have pre-school education, as well as why it is not good for kindergartens to have to receive two-year-olds. I do not want to go back to that, but I have the opportunity here to respond both to the Minister's words and to the words of President Gazdík, so I will use this opportunity. I am glad to say that the Ministry of Education has moved forward under the current leadership in its opinions and that it really sees realistic that the obligation to receive two-year-olds causes a lot of problems, of course, in financial, capacity, but to some extent goes against the sense of preschool education and the task of kindergarten in our education system. I am glad that the ministry's position has really shifted here, and I also believe that we will be able to correct this mistake. With pre-school education, which is mandatory for everyone, I'd just say to the minister that what's happening now and what shows the data for the first year, that's what we were predicting, who weren't in favour of the proposal. And we've also argued here that that's exactly what's going to happen. And it's not gonna change. We simply caused families who, for good reasons, do not send children to kindergarten to prepare them well for primary schooling, have various reasons for doing so, mommy is on maternity leave with a smaller child, it suits them, they devote themselves to grandparents, there are thousands of them - so we have made this small percentage of families extremely difficult. And yet the three percent, or two, or four, or how many of those children are from socially disadvantaged or families who don't send those children there, even though those who pushed for it wanted to get them there, we didn't force them to send those children to kindergarten anyway. And that's what we said and predicted, because it shows experience and it was obvious that it would happen. So I think it would be much more sensible, especially in a situation where, even if it wasn't an obligation, she graduated preschool or went to kindergarten that last year if we were to revolve it. We wouldn't mess up anything, we wouldn't cause any social problems, we would just simplify the life of a number of families who can take care of a child by preparing him well for primary school without going to kindergarten. But allow me to touch on the question of funding, because here I dare to disagree with my precious colleague, President Gazdík. I do not think that the problems that the Zlín Region has, but which are generally problems of Czech education, and that is the difference in the financing of education between the regions, that this is caused by the funding for the pupil and that it will be eliminated by the cost financing. First of all, I would like to say that when we propose a delay in the reform of funding, I support this proposal not because I think that the reform is poorly prepared - which is, insufficiently prepared. But I support the proposal for postponement because I think that the reform is wrong and is going in the wrong direction and will not work well and will not work in favour of Czech education. I don't agree with the idea of reform. Cost financing, as set up here, is a bad system. And if we can no longer cancel it, because there is not enough political will to do it, then I think it is wise for us to put it as far away as possible and allow everyone not only to prepare it well, but above all to reconsider their position. [[16.30 hours]] I think it's much more correct to finance some kind of normalization for a pupil. Of course, not in some naive, primitive, mechanical form, but with different coefficients, very simple and transparent, which may allow us to keep schools in small municipalities, which is undoubtedly the interest of all of us. But I want to make one more argument here. One of the problems of Czech education in the long term is the differences in money that go to a pupil in individual regions. And the differences are pretty pronounced and they're not justified by anything. So today we are in a situation - and there I agree that it is not okay and it would cause us a lot of problems in the future - today we are really in a situation that in the same field, a class with the same number of pupils in different regions, the school will receive various funds for the pupil. This is unjustified and problematic. It is problematic because we are already dealing with differences in output, in the quality of education between regions. It is one of the significant deficits, disadvantages, problems of the Czech education system. According to some analyses and comparisons, the differences in knowledge between regions account for up to 1.5 years of schooling, which should concern us all. And, of course, we cannot be satisfied with the situation that these differences are or can be supported by an inappropriate financing system. That is why I agree that this system needs to be changed and that it is not possible to maintain the differences between the financing of individual regions. But the path that has been chosen is not good. And as it turns out, those who were preparing the reform weren't even able to prepare it so that it could be well run. From this point of view, when I repeat it again, we cannot cancel and devote ourselves to a reform that would be much simpler and more sensible, and that is going the way of the normalists, so I consider it a really good solution to postpone the launch of the reform and to devote ourselves to its thorough preparation, if any. and re-evaluation of the basic parameters on which it is built. Otherwise, not only will we not remove the differences in funding between the regions, but we will also cause the system to be ineffective, not to promote quality enough and not to lead to the education of our pupils, our children, which must be our goal, to be better. In my opinion, this reform does not ensure that, and we will only cause further complications, further inefficiency, further reduction of quality requirements throughout the system. And I don't think it's in all of our interests. So if we can at least agree to postpone the reform, I think it would be a good deal and that the Chamber of Deputies here would do something sensible and really something in favour of the education system in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u15	Well, thank you, and I have here with Mr Gazdík's point of fact, followed by Mr Bartoň's priority right. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u16	I have a point of fact about Mr. Honorable Vice-President Fial, whom I really respect humanly. However, to conclude it, I would like to ask one question. If most political parties, including the Civil Democratic Party, agree that teachers should be added, I would like to know what Professor Fiala's solution is. In case it is added, at least four regions will not be able to legally divide money into tariffs next year thanks to student funding, let alone over-the-counter components. Already the average personal supplement of the teacher in the Zlín Region is 81 CZK thanks to the funding for the pupil! And if the salaries go up by 10 percent, which we all certainly want, we're going to get below the tariff. So it happens that the regions will not be able to split their finances into tariffs! How are we supposed to handle this, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u17	Thank you, too. And with a factual remark, Vice-President Fiala will answer. Two minutes, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u18	Of course, we've been working - I'm not just speaking theoretically here - to reform funding to remove all of this. I'm just sorry it fit in the trash, and instead, something I don't think will work out, and no one can convince me. I'm sure this can be handled. We have repeatedly suggested that wage increases do not go through tariffs, but go into the excess wage component. We have proposed repeatedly disbanding the conditions that schools and directors have to deal more freely with the funds. And I don't think that because of this problem that I really - and I'm not questioning in any way - Zlínský and some other regions are facing, we have to do this reform and we can't deal with it in any other way. And I really, and I have argued here I think quite clearly, I am not convinced that the new form of funding will solve the problems and remove them. Maybe in the short term, and maybe in the Zlín Region, it will be easier to pay the teachers money. But overall, it's just not gonna be good for education. In my opinion, what you are describing here as a problem, Mr President, through Mr President, is much easier to deal with and in much less painful ways for the entire education system. The Ministry of Education will certainly be able to cope with increasing salaries so that it can reach those teachers and so that we can raise salaries so that those really good educators can feel it so that we can raise salaries so that we don't raise salaries through tariffs, but we give directors an instrument to strengthen quality within the educational body through wages.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u19	Thank you for keeping time. And then please Mr Bartona, with priority rights as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u20	Thank you. Before we get to the general debate to justify some of the amendments currently being read in the system 15, let me justify my amendment, which is not an amendment as such, but it is an accompanying resolution. Whether at first reading or on the committee, we had a long debate about whether two-year-olds were admitted to kindergartens or not, whether the kindergarten was the place where children were cared for or the kindergarten was the place where children were educated. More or less, the opinion prevails and the vote took place on the school committee - most believe that we will not want the duty of two-year-olds to be admitted to kindergarten, but we leave the possibility of two-year-olds to be accepted for kindergartens that are adapted for this. With regard to parents looking for a place for their child and for whom it was beneficial that two-year-olds would be accepted, these parents often do not want educational facilities but seek a place for child care. For a child who is of low age, so that they may even be able to return to work part-time, or to take care of the child only some day of the week. Children's groups were often mentioned. Children's groups are an excellent addition to kindergartens because there is care for the child, there does not have to be an educator, there can be a health worker or a social worker. Children's groups are currently established and funded by European money, which will be up to 2020. Since 2020, nothing will go from European money to children's groups. I therefore propose that an accompanying resolution be adopted to discuss this law. [[16.40 hours]] The accompanying resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that children's groups are under Act No. 247/2014 Sb. have proven to be a complement to pre-school care schools for pre-school children. After 2020, the relevant projects of the operational programme of European funds managed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will end. Therefore, the House calls on the Government to prepare for the inclusion of the existing functional form of children's groups in national funding after 2020. At the same time, it asks the Government to prepare a model of funding for kindergarten schools so that the conditions for the operation of kindergarten schools with conditions for children's groups are aligned.' This is House document 951. I will sign up for it in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u21	I, too, thank you, and that brings us to those who are duly enrolled, and I ask Mrs Maxová if she is present. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u22	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. There were a lot of things, but they didn't come out here, so to speak, major incentives for the Ministry of Education and Sports from the field. So, on the basis of the first reading, I took a tour of southern Bohemia and met in each area except Prachatick and Krumlovska with teachers, teachers, directors, founders, teachers and teachers, and I actually enjoyed the guarantee of a place for two-year-olds. Apart from, of course, clearly not because the system is not ready and the conditions are not set for this, there were other things that I think are absolutely necessary for us to hear here in plenary, and that through the President, the Minister of Education should pass this information on to his staff, whether he or she could say with these, problematic things did not actually help those teachers and teachers and school heads. What sounds a lot is above all the normative number of children per teacher and also that the regional normalizations are different in each region. Unfortunately, our South Bohemia Region has the highest standardizations and it can be said that I understand, of course, that teachers and teachers do not like it, and maybe I am leaning toward the fact that the normalizations of the number of children in the class should be united throughout the Republic. This means uniting regional normalizations for the number of pupils per teacher in all regions. It can be said that there are basically no conditions for children in kindergartens, especially from the number that if there are 45 000 in kindergartens at present, these conditions are not adjusted and it is quite burdensome. What sounded a lot at the debates and discussions is the nannies. Of course, nannies are a great asset to help teachers and teachers in kindergartens. However, there is a great complexity in filling out. There is a concurrence of the first and second round of listing nanny support and inclusion in templates, and it can be said that it is also wrong to set the number of children of two-year-olds in that given in quotation marks vintage." This means that if the number decreases because a child reaches the age of three, of course, they automatically cease to be entitled to the nanny, making it difficult for them to qualify. So this would be absolutely necessary within the framework of the Ministry of Education and the Nanny Program, because really 80 percent of teachers and teachers of administrative work and 20 percent of only pedagogical and educational activities, and not as in Finland, where it is reversed, where 80 percent of teaching and 20 percent of administrative activity are. What else did it sound like? I asked if the mandatory preschool year fulfilled our expectations that we put in it. Of course he didn't. It has only increased by a very small percentage and, above all, it is that parents who put children in private schools now actually report individual teaching and, of course, go to checking. What also sounds from teachers and founders and executives and teachers is that there is a lot of confusion in how to actually track children who did not participate in the compulsory preschool year that he applied for or did not come at all. Municipalities basically only send a list of children to teachers or to kindergartens, not parents, to basically contact parents immediately, which, of course, makes life and fast tracking difficult for everyone again. The problem is, of course, parents who live abroad for a long time. Take only how much time a clerk spends in the village by actually tracking parents who are abroad for a long time. Of course, what is quite surprising and alarming for me is that kindergarten schools are, of course, obliged to report when some children do not apply for the last year of the preschool, and have a duty to report it to the social-legal protection of children, however, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs issued a methodological instruction in the past period, where it is written that they do not have to deal with it at all. So I don't understand why kindergartens should, of course, report unregistered children when no one is supposed to deal with it. I don't think these two resorts have really worked together in the past. We need to check it out. Another thing that has been said, which does not, of course, concern this whole novel, however, I think it is necessary to say this here for possible future amendments to the school law, and that is inclusion. No one resists this inclusion of course, but teachers and teachers have comments on how it should work in practice, and I think they need to be heard. Early diagnostics of course various mental, psychiatric disorders, especially severe behavioral disorders, where basically if teachers and teachers instigate parents, parents do not have to listen to them and often it happens that in fact the entire school attendance has a child in their department who has a severe behavioral disorder that affects children, hurts them, and the rest of the class of course is afraid and teachers have no leverage to force parents to diagnose the child to get an assistant and take care of them in some way. What bothers a lot of teachers, and I don't think it's just a matter of kindergarten school, and that's actually a lack of time for an inclusive child with an assistant, especially for severe behavioral disorders. Because, of course, the assistant is given only for a certain number of hours, whereas, of course, parents leave their children there throughout the opening hours, and if there is no assistant there, it certainly makes teaching and education in that class very difficult. So we would need to push it quite intensively to diagnose and basically to let parents, if they are warned by the teacher that something is wrong, go to counseling with the child and then somehow tell the teachers, because all of this complicates the smooth course of education. What is still a problem is not passing information to kindergartens, because counseling centres have a duty to give this report only to parents, legal representatives, but they no longer have an obligation to share it with kindergarten, so it happens a lot, and I had it from all the areas with which I discussed that a child is actually epileptic and actually teachers don't even know that the child has epilepsy, and they deal with it after, unfortunately, the difficult situation of life. So it is true that kindergarten and kindergarten are dealing with a relatively large part of parental competence and parents are counting on it. So, through the President, I would ask the Minister to look at these nanny templates, because it really is an excellent thing, but it is conflicting, and after that, the teachers are really calling, and then maybe the continuance of the lecturer and the disabled child in kindergarten, especially with severe disorders. I'm really talking to teachers and teachers. [[16.50 hours]] So it's true that we can still have a long discussion about whether or not two-year-olds do. Of course, I am known to support the reconciliation of family and working life, but I do think that the guarantee for two-year-olds, for everyone, is nonsense. On the other hand, since we already know that 45,000 children actually place parents in kindergartens and municipalities and directors, senior teachers take them when they can, we need to look at the conditions I was talking about. This means regional normalizations to be compared and to talk about one teacher not having 24+4 children for an exception, but to try to figure out how money is going to school now, to respond to the number of children to one teacher, because I honestly can't imagine having 28 three-year-olds in charge, to tell you the truth. So this is my handover to the Minister through the President, because it is really called for by teachers and teachers from kindergarten schools, as well as by the founders. They are also inclined to support children's groups, because they have, of course, filled a certain place in our market, and I think that before the third reading, there will be quite a lot of discussion over the various amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u23	I, too, thank you, and I have here with the de facto remark of Mr Baxa. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to respond to one part of Mrs Maxová's performance, which concerns the exploration trip in southern Bohemia. I would like to thank my colleague, through Mr President, for the conclusions you have made here, but I would like to point out here one contradiction that was raised in Mrs Maxová's speech, with what he tabled as an amendment by Mr Rais. Because if Mrs Maxová here very closely, convincingly and above all on the basis of the information she received from the field of South Bohemia, she argued that the last compulsory year of schooling in kindergarten is problematic precisely for the reasons that led Members of the Civic Democratic Party to present this proposal, that is to say, administrative burden, complications for parents who, for various reasons, cannot put a child in kindergarten during the last year while taking care of education, so only through the President, my colleague, would like to point out that, however, Mr Rais has submitted a proposal to the Education Committee for this relevant part of our amendment. I am very sorry because you, through the President, are here proving what really seems to be a problem in the field of education. Then it is not clear to me why the colleague is proposing an amendment which is contrary to the reality of Czech education and training in the field, and therefore asks that the current legal obligation of the last year of compulsory schooling be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u25	Thank you, too, and I have an apology here. Mr Richter apologizes to us today by 16.45 for health reasons. And I have here with Mr Rais's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u26	Have a good day. It's delicious to throw a pitchfork in the same pack, I understand. But on the other hand, I think you've only read it in part, the amendment 678, which I have. From my point of view, what is written here leaves a decision on the placement of a child in a kindergarten to the decision of the director of the relevant kindergarten, when this will be able to take account of the staff and capacity of the given kindergarten. We simply think that - or that it retains the possibility of accepting such a child - it does not, however, provide for an obligation to do so. And I don't think any of these Members are gonna be able to say that. That's what the head of school or kindergarten is capable of saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u27	I, too, thank you, and now, please, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, who is enrolled in a proper debate. Mr Rais will prepare for the debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was also interested in the field trip to practical school life and thank you for it. I'd like to join a lot of things, not add to the cancellation of the free last year at kindergarten before school. However, first of all, I would like to comment on the proposal that we are debating, and secondly, to update the amendments we have on it. The submitted amendment to the School Act does three things, and unfortunately from our point of view, that is to say social democracy, they all remove what is modern, socially sensitive and supportive in the current law, both children and their parents. Thus, to sum up: abolishing the introduction of compulsory free last year of pre-school education before the entry of the child into school, abolishing the obligation of the municipality to provide capacity for children over two years of age in pre-school education, abolishing the conditions for individual education. If you don't mind, I will speak closer to the last year before entering school and then to the possibility of providing pre-school capacity, or in kindergarten schools, if you will, for children from the age of two. We have prepared amendments to these points, as I have already announced, to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. That is to the mandatory and free last year before entering the school. Every elementarian will tell you that it is very important for children to get used to children's collective, foreign authority and joint work before entering school. That year is intended to help make school entrance not only for children from a less stimulating social environment, as is terminus technicus, but also for those who have a great environment, but for some reason were outside the children's collective. It's a misleading claim that it didn't manifest itself. Already in that one year of effectiveness of this law the participation of children before entering school in preschool education increased from 92 to 97 percent of children in a given age cohort, i.e. the five- to six-year-olds. And the communities of kindergarten are very closely guarding that, so to speak, no child gets lost. I think it's important in itself. It should also be stressed that this means, and I have used it several times, that this year's pre-school education is free of charge. Its abolition will therefore mean an increased cost for many families, which they do not expect at the moment. And the question is whether if we cancel this and it is not free this year, those children who need to prepare for school will go to kindergarten the most, for which the proposal was accepted, because it is for every child to have the opportunity to apply to the maximum of their abilities, but some children simply need to be helped by preparing them for the school. [[17,00 hours]] Social democracy therefore fundamentally disagrees with the abolition of a free pre-school year. Controversy further raised provisions on the obligation of municipalities to ensure the possibility of admission to kindergartens for children over two years of age. I admit for myself here that much better than these little girls in kindergartens were definitely little cribs. Unfortunately, their cancellation took place for some ideal reasons. Unfortunately, it is on the initiative of the ODS that the draft amendment to the Education Act presents to us today. There's just no daycare. And parents have trouble providing for these little children if they want to avoid making decisions between caring for children and careers. If they want to align their professional life with their family life, as modernly said today. And that's what every family has the right to do. And it's not true that it hurts kids. On the contrary, there are sociological researches that mothers who try, who have a professional career, are able to devote themselves to their children perhaps even very well and perhaps better than some of those, and I stress some that just, in quotation marks, take care of children. Of course, I appreciate every woman who takes good care of her children. To deal with this situation, I present already announced amendments, respectively. I will sign up for the amendments tabled by Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Now, just quickly to the amendments. The first refuses to cancel the compulsory free year before entering the school. We propose a compromise proposal to deal with two-year-olds in kindergartens. Modification of the obligation to provide a place for children to be established so that this obligation concerns the adoption of this child... only children who reach three years of age by the end of the calendar year in which the school year began. This means that it will be more or less only for those children who are born sometime in the fall. The next amendment is intended to allow for the obligation to ensure these places and the entry of children before the third year of pre-school education, not only by providing capacity in kindergarten schools, but also by setting up groups for children. I mean, other than putting a kid in kindergarten. I have to say here that this is important from the perspective of any family that will be able to plan so if it knows that a child can be placed in either a children's group or a kindergarten three years ago, so of course he will be able to decide how long maternity leave or parental leave will be spent, how he will plan his career and his family life. On this proposal, i.e. the possibility of municipalities, majority founders, setting up child groups, the next amendment follows, a third which empowers the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and other public authorities to formulate the conditions under which children under three years of age are to be assigned to kindergartens or children's groups. We discussed these proposals with the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities. Mayors and mayors of many municipalities are asking for them. In particular, they call for us not to delay the already approved and prepared reform of education funding. The school heads began counting how much they would get under reform, and they are satisfied at the cost of setting the schedule according to the new rules from 1. 9. now and from 1. 1. 2019 will already receive money according to the new calculation. It's so late to change things at this point. The amendment with delay has no chance of efficiency by the end of August and will rather mean chaos, in our opinion and according to the debates that of course we conduct in the field. There is a huge risk in our opinion and experience - here I must add to what my colleague Gazdík said here, experience from the Zlín Region - we think that the huge risk is to send billions without new rules and control into the existing system. Specifically, in the Zlín Region, in the past, money that was so directed simply did not reach the cantors and schools. The easiest thing to do seems to be sticking to the real deadline for the reform from 1. 1. 2019 and rather proceed as quickly as possible in the dissemination of information to school directors. Furthermore, nothing prevents us from being 1. 9. 2018 sent extra money to schools for kindergartens. I must remember that the mistake was that Minister Pilný is from YES to our Minister Štech for Social Democracy in the autumn of last year just crossed over the outlook and returned the way the school budget was financed structurally before 2015. That's the problem we have to deal with today. However, if the proposal to postpone the reform goes through, then, as Social Democrats, we ask that the Government comply with the resolution of 1. 9. 2018 by 15 % increase in teacher salaries and by 10 % in non-teachers. We believe our teachers and teachers deserve it. Our children deserve it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u29	Good afternoon, honourable Members. Thank you, Mrs. Gajdůšková. And before we continue the debate with Mr Karel Rais's speech, but he will have to wait because there are three factual points, there is an apology from Mr Hrnčíř, who apologizes from 17 to 19 hours. Now, then, three factual points, then a duly registered colleague, Mr Rais. First, Mr Martin Baxa, then Mrs Černochová and a colleague Výborný. So, a colleague of Baxa. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would really just like to set the record straight with what Mr Rais here mentioned in his previous performance, and I presume now he will comment again. I looked at the list of amendments that are recorded in the system, and the amendment that you, through Mr President, recorded today at 8.44, suggests, in that first part, that the amendment to civil democrats should be deleted from the provisions relating to the abolition of compulsory schooling. So I responded in my speech to the fact that if Mrs Maxová, on the basis of her research trip in southern Bohemia and local school establishments, confirmed exactly what we are saying, that is, for what reasons are the heads of kindergartens, and certainly not only in the South Bohemia Region, in order to cancel the last compulsory school year of schooling in kindergarten schools, you want this to be preserved in your amendment. I did not say this to throw a pitchfork among the members of one party, but because Mrs Maxová here has proved empirically and actually supported our proposal, while you, through the President, my colleague, are actually asking for a measure which is in direct conflict with what your fellow Member of the ANO Group has argued here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u31	Thank you, Mr Bax. I will read the apology of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš from 17.10 to the end of the day. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová. You have the floor, Madame, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to respond to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, a colleague of yours, who mentioned here for the second time that the ODS canceled some nursery. It's not true. I am the mayor of Prague 2. We've got daycare all the time. The ODS has been in charge of that town hall practically since the revolution. We're even building a second nursery now because there's a lot of interest in them. So I would ask my colleague Gajdůšková not to say things that aren't true that the ODS canceled the nursery. On the contrary, where the ODS has mayors, or maybe maybe the mayors, they had the chieftains, so I think in most cases the crèches were preserved the same way as in our 2nd. I think that we should really try, as local politicians, to ensure that the range of options for young families is as clear as possible. And we're really trying. So I'm asking my colleague not to tell the truth here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u33	Thank you, Mrs Černochová, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Marek's factual remark, Mr Výborný and factual point, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u34	Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I would like to respond to what has been said here. You know, we've got June 12th, and every responsible school director has, of course, done his part for the next school year at the moment. I'd be surprised if it wasn't. And unfortunately, as the information travels from the Ministry towards the founders, whether it be regional authorities, regions, or then municipalities and cities, the directors still do not have the information everywhere, how the possible change of financing of regional education will be reflected in the creation of jobs and at all funding, i.e. direct costs. I believe to be plating for it to be from 1. 1. and 1. respectively. 9. As it turns out, everything has already started this year, it is not good. Let me give you a specific example. In the Pardubice Region, a meeting of representatives of the Ministry of Education took place yesterday with representatives of the Pardubice Region and the directors. Really, if the directors are prepping jobs, they've been done for a month or two. I therefore firmly hope that what the Minister said at the meeting of the subcommittee on regional education is true, and that there will actually be a delay in the run-up, by one year, with the fact that it will be covered from 1. 9. 2019 Development Programme. I hope nothing's changed in those ten days, that it's still true, and I consider it a reasonable step, and it's nothing to delay. On the contrary, I think it will bring comfort to the ranks of both founders and school directors. So that's what I'd support. And please, it will really mean a year's delay, but it's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, also with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u36	Thank you. I must respond to Mrs Černochová through Mr President. I apologize for the generalization, because it seems that even in the ODS there are enlightened politicians, and about all sides. But the fact is, the nursery has been cancelled in right-wing governments. The conditions were set so that in the mid-1990s the nursery closed. Almost everywhere. It remained in the Republic about 40 years ago. First of all. And two. Of course, the pressure for a woman to stay home as long as possible, extended maternity leave for up to four years, was also the philosophy of right-wing governments led by the ODS. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u37	Thank you, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Karel Rais, now duly enrolled, will be prepared by Mrs Lenka Kozlová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u38	Thank you. I'll be brief because I had two technical notes. So I put in two amendments. One has number 678, one has number 330. The first one is devoted to pre-school education, which we see as an option, not an obligation. And in the spirit that I have spoken, I think it is still reasonable for the management level to decide as close as possible to the problem as possible, that is to say, directors, directors, founders from the municipalities. So that's the first one. The second amendment follows up on what my colleague Gajdůškovášková said here on the issue of free education in preparatory classes before compulsory schooling. We consider it essential for this training to be provided free of charge. That is basically the headline of this second amendment. I'm gonna go back to what I said here in that technical note. The draft, which is committee, has three parts. In the third part there, of course, after discussion with both the Ministry and within the club, we disagree with the opinion that is there, and Mr Vondrák will bring an amendment to speed things up in the spirit of how there was a discussion with Mr Gazdík. I understood that it was possible to divide this approved committee proposal into three parts and vote on it. That is why I will no longer apply to those amendments, because those two are part of the committee proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u39	I thank Mr Karel Rais. Now, Mrs Lenka Kozlová, Mr Jiří Mihola will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u40	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr President, good afternoon to all colleagues and ministers. I would like to sign up for the amendments we have uploaded to the system under 953, 954 and 957. The one recorded under number 953 relates to the introduction of pre-school education, which is imposed on 100% of the population. We propose the abolition of the total pre-school education obligation between the fifth and sixth years of the child's life. It's for two reasons. The long-term objective of compulsory pre-school education was also to reduce the number of delays. In the justification of the amendment, we demonstrate why, even on this point, it is not possible to expect compulsory pre-school education to meet its objective in the current implementation. Plus, that's two, for 90 percent of the population, it was an invisible change that made the right to send children to kindergarten an obligation. Of the other 10 percent of the population for a maximum of 2 percent, it is possible to accept that there is a superior social interest in reducing citizens' rights and in granting pre-school education. Thus, 98 percent of the population's rights were disproportionately limited without the existence of a clear social interest. These are two other reasons why we want to abolish pre-school education before the sixth year of the child's life. However, in the event of a complete cancellation of the pre-school requirement, there may be a situation that neither parents nor the state will take care of children with a delay of compulsory schooling and then they will come to primary school in an even more disadvantageous position as they have been seven years old and still unprepared for school attendance. So for this reason, the proposal does not disturb the Institute's compulsory pre-school level entirely, but it preserves it precisely for children who delay compulsory schooling. Since the sixth year of the child, the State has claimed responsibility for his education without exception, whether the child enters compulsory schooling or not. [[17.20 hours]] And thirdly, while maintaining compulsory schooling even for children over six years of age, parents will remain obliged, which even in the finest form means the obligation to enroll a child in school in the Czech Republic and to attend a school for mandatory examination with a child. These obligations have fallen particularly hard on parents and citizens of the Czech Republic who live outside the Czech Republic for a long time while keeping their permanent residence in the Czech Republic. These are continuously dozens of parents, some of whom are staying abroad in the framework of services for the Czech state, the embassies, the official apparatus of the European Union, etc. The proposal therefore corrects the rules of compulsory preschool education by including school attendance in schools outside the territory of the Czech Republic among the recognised forms of fulfilment of this obligation. That would be the design that was recorded under number 953. Proposal 954 deals with basically the same topics, but it is a proposal that the House can narrow pre-school education to children with a delay of compulsory schooling even if it adopts an amendment recommended by the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. Finally, the third proposal, which was recorded under number 957, concerns individual education of children. The existing legislation requires applicants for individual training, i.e. parents, to state the reasons why individual training should be allowed. Even if material security for individual training is met, the Director shall grant the request only if he finds the reasons for the serious. For these reasons, the rules are not binding and thus, as a rule, a combination of factors is decided on, but is not officially captured. The proposal shall not diminish the freedom of the Director to decide according to the situation and his conviction. The motion merely requires the Director to state the reasons for his decision. The aim of the proposal is, therefore, that the reasons for refusing individual training by the Director be kept on an official basis and that they can continue to serve as part of the feedback in the management of the school system, the allocation of the necessary funds, etc. So much for these three suggestions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u41	Thank you, Mrs Lenka Kozlová. Now, Mr Jiří Mihola, with his application, will prepare Ms Hana Aulická. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u42	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. I have already expressed myself here on this proposal or amendment of the law at first reading, so it is probably not necessary to repeat all the arguments. I just want to clarify the attitude of the KDU-ČSL club. We have made it clear that during the last parliamentary term "no" the obligation of kindergartens to receive two-year-olds. We did not support the amendment at the time, and this is where our position continues. He's leaning on the opinions of parents, child psychologists, teachers, founders, but I think it goes across political clubs here in the House. I believe there will be a consensus on this part of the proposal. We also feel that there are parents who are in some difficult situation where they need someone to take care of two-year-olds, so we would like to strengthen children's groups by institutionalising them and supporting them financially so that they can be more accessible in these necessary cases. I submit an amendment, which is loaded in the system as House document 952 and which repeals the first part of the amendment to the bill. This is the maintenance of compulsory pre-school education in the range of one year, which is valid only from 1 September 2017. A very short period of time is needed for the relevant impact assessment of the change and therefore it is necessary to maintain the current situation. Furthermore, the amendment maintains the last year of pre-school education free of charge. I am aware that a similar amendment is actually tabled by a fellow Member, profesor Rais, with whom I have also communicated and whom I appreciate. Then it depends on the procedure for voting at third reading. I confess that I was somewhat confused by the ANO movement in its programme statement by the government with the ČSSD, where although it had previously declared that it did not support the obligation to provide care for two-year-olds, I read here in the programme statement: we will ensure a legally guaranteed entitlement to care for children from two years of age, taking into account the possibility of founders. I quote, of course, as KDU-ČSL we are not against it if the founder or kindergarten has the capacity and management of the kindergarten wants to offer it, so let it not be an obligation. Since I am not sure about the position of the YES movement here in this case, I am putting this amendment here, just in case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u43	I thank Mr Jiří Mihol. Now, Mrs Hana Aulická, so far the last one entered into the general debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to make a few statements about the amendment. I have to say that we have been discussing a lot at first reading, and I might say that we will be repeating ourselves in some parts, but as I see today's debate, I think that some of the amendments that have been tabled here and, more or less, presented are quite embarrassing to me, such as raising and financing children's groups, etc. Let me give you our opinion on that. We have declared that two-year-olds simply do not belong in kindergartens, because in kindergarten schools according to school law, it is primarily education, which, as we can imagine, two-year-olds cannot simply be educated. And two-year-olds simply belong to a different regime, whether they are, as a colleague, a nursery, or an alternative, a children's group, where unfortunately we have not yet managed to lessen children's groups more or less to have children there only up to three years of age and then to have to enter preschool education in the form of kindergarten. We perceive the problem that this obligation has brought to kindergarten. I must say that the Minister also, when he visited the kindergarten game in Most, where representatives of kindergartens, especially the teacher and principal, welcomed him, he discussed this issue with them, and he certainly passed on the information they had communicated there, but I think he was quite well informed about them, and more or less they declared that the two-year-olds really brought only a major problem. We cannot agree with the amendment from the ČSSD workshop, I think from my colleague Kateřina Valachová, that it should be an obligation for kindergartens to have to take children when they are three years old by December. We really think that if kindergartens have the option or the founder is trying to do that, then it should be left to those organizations, the municipalities, the founders, to ensure that they can have children there from the age of two, but really not to give them as an obligation. I don't think it's gonna do any good in the system. As for the children's groups, I have already mentioned it here, we, as KSČM, have really fought against the adoption of the Children's Group Act, or we have tried to ensure that children are placed in children's groups up to three years of age. I am saying this precisely because we cannot compare children's groups with the quality and education that are in kindergartens. I think if you visit a children's group or kindergarten, it's just incomparable stuff. I really think that children's groups should only be an alternative again within three years. [[17.30 hours]] The nursery was mentioned here. We perceive that after 1990 it was a problem for the then ruling group and the nursery was really crowded. But, of course, they were also local municipalities, the municipalities that approached it in this way. The shrines have been sold, that there will be no need to renew them in life. Today, we know that where the nursery is left, they are enthusiastic and have 100% fullness. I think we all know that requests exceed the possibility of acceptance. And I don't think it would be wrong for us to return to the nursery with the support of the Ministry of Health again, and the subsidies in cooperation with these three municipalities to set up a nursery again and support children, as they say today, not having a hole when parental leave ends at the age of two years of a child. And as for five-year-olds, we are pleased that some colleagues, I think my colleague Rais is putting in that amendment that we do not want to charge the last year of pre-school education. I must say that we are clearly in favour of maintaining the duty of five-year-olds to enter kindergarten. I think my colleagues have said it here, especially because we perceive that it is mainly from the social need for inclusion in the children's team and far better training for school education. I certainly think it is nothing new, that children coming from kindergartens are much better socially, but also otherwise prepared for school education than children who would be at home. Unfortunately, I understand that we have another system here that allows us to have children at home. And I don't think it's wrong everywhere, and I see some experiences that they need to be right for children, if parents take good care of them, that's not a problem, and that's individual education. In fact, this is also possible for children who do not get into kindergarten. I think you all know that. But unfortunately, we have children with parents who are unable to prepare children as well as if they were attending kindergarten. I can't touch all my parents like I said it, but we do have social groups that use the so-called individual, but we know that when a child comes to a so-called rehearsal and a teacher or a principal evaluates that the child is not properly prepared, that there are no sanctions, there are no consequences for parents. This means that there is also no motivating aspect that motivates parents to care for children, but also in kindergartens, because they just shrug their shoulders, there is nothing we can do, but the child is more or less unable to prepare for school education properly in certain groups or numbers. That's probably the big problem, and that's why we'd like five-year-olds to really keep the obligation, but of course, to keep it undefeated. I thank you, and I hope that even when voting at third reading, you will take into account your aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u45	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. We can therefore move forward and open the debate in detail, because there was no proposal that we would vote after the general debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. The first one entered in the detailed debate is Mr Fridrich. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u46	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In view of the absence of a fellow Member, Mr Ivo Vondrák, who is excused from today's hearing, I apply to Amendment No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school primary, secondary, higher vocational and other education, as amended, House Press 61. The amendment is conducted as House document 782. A proposal for the amendment to the draft law is submitted below. After Article 2, the following Article 3 is inserted: 101/2017 Coll., amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, secondary, higher vocational and other education, the Education Act, as amended, is replaced by "2018" in Article II (1). Article 3 shall become Article 4. Reason. Law No 101/2017 Coll., hereinafter referred to as the amendment to the Education Act, brought a fundamental change of legislation in the field of financing regional education, in particular schools established by local authorities. The proposed amendment contains an extension of the transitional provision contained in the amendment to the School Act. The transitional provision sets out when the existing school funding rules are still applied and thus creates a time-frame for the transition to the new system. It is proposed that this transitional period continue until 31. 12. 2018 was postponed by one year, i.e. until 31. 12. 2019. The proposed legislation thus creates a time frame for familiarising the school directors, the authorities concerned and other bodies and persons with the details of the changes. The delay in the application of the legislation will also give sufficient time to familiarise interested parties with the related implementing rules. Additional space can also be used to modify and test additional software modules. The possible implications of the amendment to the State budget are not foreseen; only one year can be expected to postpone the costs associated with the changes in funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u47	I thank Mr Fridrich. I ask for further time, I will ask Mrs Gajdůšková, three apologies to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Radka Maxová from 18 o'clock to the end of the day, then Mrs Maříková from 17 o'clock to the end of the day, and Mr Sadovskýý also by the end of the day. Now, Mrs Alena Gajdůšková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Members, I have already announced the amendments put in the system for social democracy by Mrs Kateřina Valachová in the general debate and I have also briefly justified them. So let me just apply now to House document 958, which is the conditions for three-year-olds, and to House document 959, which is an empowering provision for municipalities and for setting up children's groups, and to House document 960, which is a abolition clause plus guarantee for pre-school children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u49	Thank you, Mrs Gajdůšková. Now, Mr Jan Čižinský, Mr Mihola's colleague will prepare himself. [[The Chizhinski is not in the room.]] I can see my colleague Čižinský now. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u50	Thank you. Sorry I'm late. I would like to read an amendment which is actually identical to the amendment. These are preparatory classes of primary schools. I would also like to use this carrier to put the word first into the bill. The reasoning is the same as in the case of the amendment. It is about not discriminated against in access to the preparatory classes of primary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u51	Thank you, Mr Čižinský. And now, Mr. Jiří Mihola. Mrs Lenka Kozlová will be ready. [[Mr Chižinský returned to the microphone to complete the document number.]] Please, of course, Mr. Ambassador, make it complete.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u52	That number is 956. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u53	Okay. Now the show is complete. Now, Mr Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u54	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already briefly justified my amendment. I also add this because it concerns the maintenance of compulsory pre-school education to the extent of one year, and free of charge, so that attendance is free, and I add to that the reason that we are the ones who have promoted the possibility of individual education, i.e. home education, for those who would not be eligible for this form of compulsory pre-school education. So the whole situation has a solution. So I sign up for House document 952. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u55	I thank Mr Mihol. Now, Mrs Lenka Kozlová, at this time, the last one entered into a detailed debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u56	Thank you for the floor. I would just briefly, because I was talking a little while ago, I'm not going to justify again... I am applying to the amendment, which was recorded under number 953, to the amendment under number 954, and to the amendment recorded under number 957. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u57	Yes. There you go. Now, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u58	Thank you. I would like to sign up for Amendment 951. This is the accompanying resolution that I have read here in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-002-117.u59	I thank Mr Bartoň. And now I ask if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. [[It's not.]] Since no proposal has been made, I can end the second reading of this proposal. I thank the representatives of the appellants, Mr Bax, and I thank the rapporteur. I'm done with point 117. The next item is the interrupted item.
