ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-027-061.u1	61. Report on petitions received by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, their content and manner of handling for the period from 1. 7. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market and amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the I ask that the chair of the Committee on Petitions, Mrs Helena Válková, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-027-061.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I will try to refresh this otherwise unattractive report, because we are being approached by a number of citizens who sometimes turn to those petitions - and you have received the House press - expressing problems that are not so important to most citizens of the Czech Republic, but sometimes they are things that really shake politically and medialy our world, and there are a few of them. This report intervenes partly before the last parliamentary term, i.e. the past, because we are always discussing the report on petitions over the past half-year, and in this case it is the period, as Mr President said, from 1 July 2017 to 31 December 2017. In one case, right in the first one, I'm updating the information. A total of five petitions were delivered to the Chamber of Deputies in the second half of 2017, in which 21 287 petents supported requests in matters of public interest or other social interest. The first one I'm going to report on is one of the most important, from my point of view, even given the number of signatures. On 12 July 2017, a petition with a total of 21,000 was delivered to the Chamber of Deputies. signatures in which petenti requested amendment of Act No. 65/2017 Coll., on health protection against harmful effects of addictive substances. It's the so-called anti-smoking law. It was Parliament's 828, which was approved by a large majority of Members. Only 23 Members voted against the adoption and the law was then declared 3. 3. 2017 in the Collection of Laws and became effective, as you know, at the end of May, I suspect 31 May 2017. Already in March 2017, the Constitutional Court submitted a proposal to the Senator Group to repeal some of the provisions of the Act in question, including the provisions of § 8 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (k) as regards the prohibition of smoking, with the exception of the use of water pipes on the indoor premises of food service establishments. The Committee on Petitions turned to the Constitutional Court and actually called on him to submit information, respectively. asked him for information. We have received such information that the Constitutional Court will decide this in the coming months. He hasn't decided yet. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] In their petition, Petenti stated as the main reason for the amendment of the so-called anti-smoking law an unjustified intervention in the freedom of citizens and, at the same time, pointed out that thousands of bar- and restaurant-owners had failed to invest. The petition was then referred to the opinion of the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic, which stated that the objective of Act No. 65/2017 Sb. is to strengthen public health protection against the harmful effects of tobacco smoke. The prohibition of smoking on the indoor premises of food services establishments should contribute, inter alia, to reducing the prevalence of young people who are starting to smoke in these types of equipment. Some citizens' initiatives and opinion polls have long pointed to the merits and public support of the introduction of a total ban on smoking in restaurants. The Ministry of Health dealt with -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-027-061.u3	I am very sorry, Madame. I have tried to calm down colleagues who are discussing and I have not succeeded, so I will try again and more strongly. Quiet in the Chamber of Deputies, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-027-061.u4	- also dealt with the economic effects on food service operators. The benefit of smoking bans can also be considered to be lower disease of workers of establishments, lower costs of air conditioning, etc. The Ministry of Health expects further ongoing evaluation of the implementation of Act No. 65/2017, however, it will be objectively possible to evaluate the factual impact of the measure in question and the really problematic points of law with at least an annual, two-year, three-year distance. [[18.10 hours]] Hence the statement of the Ministry of Health. But with regard to the number of signatures that increased and reached at the moment - which happened, and here I am updating the report of March 13, 2018 - about 66,000, we were obliged and, of course, wanted to call a public hearing. The public hearing took place on 13 March 2018. We have also discussed another petition that does not belong in this report, but for the sake of completeness I will say it. There were around 1,350 signatures collected, but the signatures also gradually increase, and these are, in turn, opponents of breaking the ban on smoking in the indoor dining facilities. Thus, representatives of both those who think their investments have been thwarted and those who, such as Professor Pafko, Professor Pirk, Professor Králíková and others, have pointed out the importance of health. It is not for the Committee on Petitions to evaluate either of the two parties, to hear them publicly and to inform the Chamber of Deputies impartially. So I'll keep you posted. It all happened in a very dignified environment, there were opposers and supporters of the broken ban not attacking each other, and I think it made such a good objective picture of the arguments they used. [[There's still a lot of noise in the hall!]] Let me just say that we have then said among ourselves members of the petition committee, informally, that we fear that neither the supporters nor the opponents have convinced us and remain mostly in their positions. But the public hearing took place. That was the only public hearing for a petition that actually came from the past period. Second petition. On 24 July 2017, the Petition Committee of the Chamber of Deputies received a petition against dust and smell emissions. 170 inhabitants of Mydlovary -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-027-061.u5	I apologize again and again I ask the Chamber of Deputies for peace. And if it doesn't work, I'll start making names.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-027-061.u6	Thank you, Mr President. It's not easy for us. It was handed to 170 inhabitants of Mydlovary because air pollution is one of the greatest risks to the environment and the health of citizens in the cadastral of this municipality. Recultivation of sludges is carried out here, for which ash from incinerators and sewage are used, among other things, resulting in a significant increase in dustiness and odour. The Chamber of Deputies adopted an amendment to the Act on Air, which began to apply from 1 January 2017 and tightens the conditions. The Committee on Petitions of the Chamber of Deputies requested information from the Ministry of the Environment of the Czech Republic on the measures taken and the checks carried out. A lack of implementation of measures to reduce secondary dustiness has been found by the inspection carried out by České Budějovice's Czech Environmental Inspection Survey. Following the meeting of representatives of the Czech Environmental Inspection of České Budějovice and representatives of the operator of the complex remediation and reclamation of Mydlovary pond and subsequent inspection, measures were taken on the matter of dustiness. So it was important - to reduce secondary dust by spraying in remedial work. Furthermore, a study was commissioned to identify the source and assess the cause of odour formation, samples were taken from lagoons and other options were further sought to proceed effectively in the treatment of odour elimination. The Regional Authority of the South Bohemia Region has initiated a change in the permit of operation, including changes in the conditions specified in the operating order. This report by the Ministry of the Environment on the measures taken was forwarded to the petents. Three. The third petition was handed over to the petition committee with 69 signatures on 23 November - a petition that is already affecting our term of office. It was initiated by a group of students with the requirement of legalization of marijuana, especially its use for health reasons. The report was prepared by Mrs Matyášová, who opposed the legalisation of marijuana with a reference to the health and social risks involved. Mr Tomáš Vymazal has drawn up a opposing position in favour of the legalisation of marijuana. Both documents have been submitted to the petition committee, discussed and sent to the petents. Fourth petition, second to last. On 10 August 2017, seven petition signatories asked the Czech government to introduce the euro against - seven only - to decide not to adopt the euro deliberately, but to hold a national referendum on this issue. At the end of the seventh parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies, the adoption of the euro was repeatedly discussed and the views of the various parliamentary parties on the adoption of the euro were different. However, there has always been talk of the necessary preparation of the economy and citizens for the adoption of the common currency. It will also depend on the development in the European Union of how stable it will be after the UK's withdrawal from the EU, how some debt problems of some countries and so on will be resolved. That is why it has been told the petents that the issue of adoption will already be dealt with by the new government and the Chamber of Deputies in a new composition. Finally, the last petition, which was also presented in a very significant media and political way. It came at the very end of the seventh term 18. 10. 2017. A petition from a pettent - which may be - has been sent to the Committee on Petitions. Since there were no clear elements of the petition, the petition committee was asked to give an opinion indicating that this submission had been forwarded prematurely to the Committee on Petitions of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm still reporting on him here. Because a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies was convened on 16 October 2017 to assess the signature of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic under a memorandum with Australian coal miners for the extraction of lithium in the sovereign territory of the Czech Republic. In resolution 1846 of the 61st meeting of 16 October 2017, the Chamber of Deputies asked the Government to declare the memorandum null and void due to the obvious uncertainty of its subject. The mining of lithium should be carried out by a state enterprise and the profit from this extraction should remain the income of the state budget of the Czech Republic. The Chamber of Deputies then declared the memorandum non-binding for the Czech Republic. Another part of my report is the procedure which, I think, quite clearly, summarizes the individual actions in dealing with petitions. I'm not gonna read that here because everyone can read it and study it, including the attached table. So if you would agree, I will now give the floor to the President, and then I would propose a resolution that has resulted from the meeting of the Committee on Petitions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-027-061.u7	Thank you. As a steering meeting, I will take the floor myself and start a general debate because it was the rapporteur's speech. I have no application here in the general debate, so I am ending it and I will pass the floor on to the rapporteur in detail and ask her for a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-027-061.u8	I'm so sorry. I think I've been in a different role for a while. So, Mr President, my dear colleagues, I will propose to you a resolution of this text: 'The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Report on petitions adopted by the Chamber of Deputies, their content and the way they are processed for the period from 1 July 2017 to 31 December 2017.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-027-061.u9	Thank you for the motion for a resolution. I will ask if anyone else wants to speak in a detailed debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate in detail. I don't think we need the final word, so we can vote. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with the motion for a resolution. Who's against it? It's vote number 152. It's registered 159, for 146, against no one. This proposal has been adopted and I conclude with paragraph 61. [[18.20 hours]] On the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs, we have one more vote to vote, and that is a vote that will exclude all unnegotiated items from the agenda. I will vote on this in the vote that I have launched, and I ask who agrees to dismiss all unnegotiated points. Who's against it? It's vote number 153, registered 159, for 125, against 8. This proposal was adopted. That means we've eliminated all unnegotiated points. I am ending this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and I warn you that we will meet next week at a special meeting, at least one, and I wish you all a happy journey home.
