ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-010-034.u1	34. Government bill amending Act No. 374/2015 Coll., on recovery procedures and resolution of the crisis in the financial market, as amended by Act No. 183/2017 Coll., and other related laws /German press 94/ - first reading Before I ask the secretary for a performance, I'll introduce you to the apologies that came in the meantime. Minister Němcová apologizes for today's meeting from 15 a.m. to the end of the day for work reasons. Mr Martin Kolovratník apologizes from 14.30 to 15.15 for working reasons and tomorrow, 22 March, for the whole day of the hearing also for work reasons. Mr Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes for today's meeting from 14.16 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Petr Pávek apologizes for today's meeting between 14.30 and 19 pm due to the hearing. Mr Stanislav Blaha apologizes for today's meeting from 14:00 to Friday until the end of the day, that is, Friday 23. 3. for medical reasons. Mr Dominik Feri apologizes for today's meeting between 14.30 and 19.00 for work reasons. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová apologizes for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies today between 15 and 15.30 for personal reasons, and Mr Marian Jurečka apologises from 14.30 to the end of the working day for working reasons. I therefore ask that the presentation of the proposal be taken up by Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-010-034.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly state the Government's bill which amends the law on recovery procedures and resolution in the financial market and also interferes with the insolvency law and the law on judicial fees. This proposal is presented in the same text as the Government of the Chamber of Deputies has already been submitted in the previous parliamentary term, in which the legislative process has not been completed for time reasons. The aim of the bill is to clarify and supplement some of the previously implemented provisions of the European Directive establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. The proposed changes stem mainly from practical problems related to the application of the new legislation, which could not be detected during the transposition process itself due to their nature. The vast majority of changes are therefore of a technical nature. Based on experience with the current functioning of the guarantee system of the financial market, certain aspects of its functioning are corrected. At the same time, an adjustment is proposed to the selection of contributions to the resolution fund. It is also proposed to extend the current powers of the Czech National Bank in relation to the possibility of using one of the crisis management measures, the so-called moratorium, as well as to supplement the obligations relating to contractual documentation of eligible liabilities and write-off capital instruments governed by the law of a non-Member State. The adoption of the proposed amendments, which, as I have already mentioned, are mostly of a technical nature, will allow for a smoother and more efficient functioning of the entire framework for the prevention and resolution of future crises in the financial market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-010-034.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary, and please let the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Karel Rais. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-010-034.u4	Thank you. I listened very carefully and basically the main features of the bill were said by the Minister. So I would repeat that - I think in April or in the past period - this bill has already been here once and is presented again in the form in which it was put forward, because it has not been resolved in the course of the elections. Second thing. When I speak a clear language, it is about giving the Czech National Bank higher powers in crisis situations, where essentially commercial banks, credit unions or securities dealers will have some problems. The point is that these instruments should ensure that the costs of the failure of these institutions, which I mentioned, are borne, in particular, by shareholders and associates and creditors, not by taxpayers. That's the core of this novel. So I think it's a novel that will help normal people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-010-034.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. No one is enrolled in the general debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in now. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the final words whether the Minister or the rapporteur is interested. There's no interest in final words. There was no motion to return or refuse, so we will deal with the commandments of the committees for discussion. In the meantime, I shall call the Members to vote. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Would anyone else, as a committee of guarantee, please propose that they address this proposal? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the proposal being discussed as a guarantee committee by the Committee on Budgets. Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 126, 171 Members registered, for 135, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantees. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee for discussion. Is there a proposal that would be made here from a diaper? There is no such proposal, and since there has not been a proposal to shorten or extend the deadline, I note that we have dealt with the first reading of this House's press. I thank the Minister and thank the rapporteur. I'm opening item number 35. It's about
