ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u1	1. Request of the Government of the Czech Republic to express confidence Since the President of the Chamber of Deputies welcomed the President of the Republic here in the Chamber of Deputies, I will interrupt this meeting until the President of the Republic arrives. I assume the President of the Republic will perform at 9:30. I'm interrupting the meeting until 9:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the Chamber. We'll continue with the approved agenda for our meeting. [[Members enter the hall and settle in their seats.]] Members of the government are also in their seats. [[After a while.]] I announce that in a few moments Mr. Miloš Zeman will be visiting the Chamber of Deputies of the President of the Republic. He signed up for the word on point 1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u3	Dear guests, allow me to welcome the President of the Republic of Mr Miloš Zeman and give him the floor. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u4	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Government, dear fellow Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen. About a month ago, I was asked by the chair of the ANO movement, the Czech Party of the Social Democratic and Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia for a speech in the Chamber of Deputies to support this government. I was happy to comply with this request because it is, after all, the duty of every president to support the government he has previously appointed. I would like to congratulate all three appointed political party chairmen, as well as their teams, for, I believe, the successful completion of very complex negotiations, and I would like to express as a born optimist the hope that today the House will give this government confidence. I do not want to deal with the peripeties that have tied up in government negotiations, and certainly not with personnel issues that are often mediated, because it is the only topic that journalists can understand. In any case, I would like to address the government's programming statement, because ministers are coming and going, as we could see at the Ministry of Justice as well, but the programming statement should remain and should be a kind of fundamental of our government's long-term activities. My co-workers told me not to talk for more than three hours because I have a plane waiting at the airport to take me to Brussels at the NATO summit. So I will try to be as brief as possible and limit myself only to two slightly more extensive remarks about this programming statement, one of which will be commendable and the other, as is usual for me, critical for a change. As far as the commendation is concerned, I very much appreciate the fact that the programming declaration contains the idea of a long-term, i.e. a ten-year, investment programme, whether at the level of cities and municipalities, regions or the whole Republic. In my previous speeches and before this House, I have always been jealous of excessive consumption spending, and I have stressed that these are investments that create our future. Allow me to quote Aljoša of the Karamazův bratr: "It would be a great idea to give people bread. Yes, a great idea. But not the biggest. One eats and forgets and wonders what happens next." And what's next is investment, works that we're supposed to hand over to future generations just as our ancestors have handed over to us a delightful cultural landscape that we sometimes destroy. So I welcome this investment program. If I were to talk about my subjective preferences, then I would put first the protection of cultural monuments, which sometimes fall under our hands, as the publications of the State Institute of Monument Care prove. In the last decade, with some exceptions, we have not been able to revive our cities with a single modern architecture. Let's remember the Caplicka Library on Letná and others. Well, at least let's save what's left of the past. But that's subjective preference. Objectively from the point of view of the Czech Republic, I see the largest part, a kind of backbone of investment programs, in two areas. In the field of infrastructure and in the field of energy. And when I read the government's programming statement, it's a little more specific in infrastructure than it is in the energy field, which I think is a mistake. [[9.40 hours]] There are, of course, points in that government programming statement on who we're gonna add and how much we're gonna add, but I really don't want to deal with that. I remember David Cameron, who said: "The parliamentary democracy is great. If only there weren't always any choices." I'm afraid he was right deeply, especially since we've had elections every year lately. As far as the construction of the transport network is concerned, I am pleased that Minister Ťok has prepared a very detailed material which contains data on the start and hopefully the completion of transport structures, including the budget. I would like to say with pleasure that a recent feasibility study also recommended my favourite Danube-Odra-Labe channel project. Dear friends, this project was supported by Karel IV, František Josef . embodied it in the water service law of 1901 and Jan Antonín Baťa in his book We build the state for 40 million people called it one of the three most important projects. Well, I'm very glad that this building, designed for 15 years, is finally going to be realized and that I will live to see it begin. At least the opening. By the way, of course, I expect notes on the megalomanic projects to appear. I know people, I won't name for whom every project beyond the size of the henhouse is a megaloman project. Well, so much for transport infrastructure. And I know that this water corridor, as the former Minister of Agriculture, Mr Milek, said, can bring water even to the drought-stricken South Moravia. Far more pitiful is the situation in the field of energy. Here we have some kind of supposed concept of energy, but what does that concept say? That we should focus on the core and coal. That's nice, I agree, but that's not a concept yet. The concept means that specific investment activities will be specified similarly to transport constructions, and unfortunately this is not. We still don't know if only Dukovany or Temelín will be built, we still have no idea of the financial framework and we are discussing whether it should be paid by ČEZ, which I think is the right idea, or that some other financial system should be adopted. Besides, we don't know what to do or what not to do in the field of coal power. An example is the Počerady power plant, where we do not know whether to sell it or whether ČEZ should maintain it. And I could find dozens of these examples of confused non-conceptual work in our energy system. There's one more unpleasant thing to do. Our beloved European Union has decided to increase the share of renewable resources. I have nothing against renewable resources if they are embedded in a market conformation environment, that is, if they are not subsidized, even disproportionately subsidized. That is what renewables, especially solar sources, are. And the European Union has an idea of increasing the share of these resources, even though we do not have the Alpine rivers or the North German coast with strong winds. So, following the success of our diplomacy in the area of migration quotas, I expect further success in the fight with, in my opinion, a senselessly high proportion of the subsidised, especially solar resources. Here I would just add that everyone knows that solar resources are unstable because of the weather, so they have to be backed up because of this volatility, and the backup capacity is obviously not entirely used. It's just a waste of our resources. I think that's how I used up about the first half of my speech. Now allow me to move on to what I do not agree with in the programming declaration, or what is not in it at all. I hope, with special concern, that the government will listen to me, colleagues, because praise is pleasing, but criticism inspires, isn't it? [[He's turning to ministers.]] Excellent. Well, then, what's not in it. There's no clear answer to the question of where we'll get the money. And that, of course, should be there. Opinions are emerging, and I do not agree with them that such a resource should be a deficit budget. This means that we should leave the 50 billion deficits in comparison with the original considerations and devote them to investment. It's a nice alibiism, but politics is also about symbols and gestures. And if, in the past, we have undertaken to reduce the budget deficit smoothly, we should not freeze it, i.e. keep it at that level for the alibis reasons I was talking about. Look, I'm in favour of a deficit at a time of crisis. I am not in favour of a deficit at a time of economic growth. And I think that we should aim at least a balanced budget, if not a surplus budget. Then, in all recognition of the work that has been done, for example, in tax collection, there is a question of where we will take it. And my answer, colleagues and colleagues, will be clear and cruel. There are huge resources in savings saving, in the fight against waste. This economy and this society are immeasurably wasted, and sometimes we pass through total indifference. Let me give at least a few specific examples in this second part. I'll start with the biggest one. We waste 48 billion a year to support renewables. It is, of course, the fault of past governments and past parliaments, the then green madness, but that does not relieve us of the responsibility to fight against it. I am glad that we have agreed with the Prime Minister and with the CEO of Čez that CEZ, of course free of charge, will give the Office of the Government a legal team to look for ways of solving this problem. In the government's programming statement, one way is already indicated. That's called overcompensating, but there's also a solar tax. I would like to congratulate the Treasury that two arbitrations have already been won on this subject, and I want to believe that together we will find ways to remove solar barons from resources for which they did not deserve. [[9.50 hours]] Another example, and now I think I'm gonna upset a lot of people, are civil servants. Under my rule, there were 80,000 civil servants. Today there are 150,000, of which 70,000 are at central level, 70,000 are at urban level and 10,000 are at regional level. I owe this information to Mrs Vildumetzová. Well, what about it? That these people, in order to justify their existence, invent a job that is often useless, that is one thing. Looking at it helplessly is another matter. Instead of criticizing, let us look for solutions and try not to increase this number further, the less so as to add money to these officials in their wages. By the way, speaking of officials, I hope we're all clear that I'm not talking about public servants in general. That's a dramatic difference. Here it turned out, and especially our colleagues who like the idea of the digital Czech Republic so much, it should be welcomed that robotization has already started in the banking sector. This is, of course, no humanoid robot, it is an algorithm inserted into a computer that allows you to realize a number of previously routine, routine acts of a bank official. In the west, we're already being released by bank officials. Only very marginally so far. Why not inspire yourself with this idea, not to algoritize the government, and release officials will find comfortable jobs in the private sector in the absence of labor, thereby lightening the state budget. Just want and have a little courage to stand up against this sometimes lobbyist group. Well, of course, apart from this source of savings, there are savings that I have requested from the President of the Supreme Audit Office of Míla Kala. I highly recommend you read them, it's a terrifying reading. Those who like information systems so much, for example, can read in a chapter called Information Systems Pliers that the former Minister of Labour and Social Affairs purchased three computer systems for one billion crowns, none of which works and are not compatible. Somebody find a billion on the sidewalk! You're not gonna make it. That was my confirmation of Zemanův's law. If any of you do not yet know the law of Zemanův, this law reads: Each new computer system is more expensive, slower and defective than the previous system. Greetings to our pirát. [[Fun in the hall.]] But of course I know it's an exaggeration, and I know there are systems that work. A vehicle register, for example, right? Very well. Well, then we have a number of partial examples, thanks to the laxity of the previous Ministry of Agriculture, for example. we are in danger of returning European subsidies for CZK 7.5 billion. Well, do you want me to continue with this sad list? There would be dozens and dozens of items characterizing waste. The other day, I was wondering if we're preparing for war, because that's the only way to explain the huge amount of resources we're putting into the state's material reserves. But I will not continue these examples. When the Prime Minister made his promise to the Prime Minister, he made a commitment to fight waste, and I want to believe that he is also engaged in this subject in his exposé. However, I would very much like to see that, as a complement to the programming statement, there is a comprehensive material that would upset some lobbyist groups forcing us to overestimate the otherwise needed activities - and sometimes unnecessary activities - that is the second song. And if this material appears, I will welcome it with the same enthusiasm as I welcomed the investment program. Dear colleagues, when I appointed this government, I used the expression of our government and two or three journalistic philosophers got angry about why I was talking about our government. [[with emphasis on:]] The answer is very simple. If the Chamber of Deputies today expresses confidence in the government of the Czech Republic, it will be our government. The government of all citizens of our state. No matter what parliamentary bodies it is composed of. Everyone in this room is trying to work for the Czech Republic despite various opinions. And in conclusion, I would like to wish you from the bottom of my heart that you do well in this work. And I would like to wish the Czech Republic a successful, peaceful and rich state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, that was the speech of the President of the Republic already in the open programme - paragraph No. One of our approved agendas. I would now ask the Prime Minister to speak on the Government's programming statement. Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček is the second highest-ranking member. Furthermore, with priority rights, Vice-President Fiala, Mr Kalousek, Bělobrádek and I. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to thank you all, on behalf of our entire government, for the opportunity to come before you and ask for your trust. We come before you with humility and ask for confidence on the basis of the programme statement of this coalition government of minorities, made up of ministers for the ANO movement and ministers for the Czech Social Democratic Party, supported by KSČM Members who have decided to allow and tolerate the emergence of this minority government. These parties to the government coalition have signed together the government statements at your disposal and agreed on the principles of mutual cooperation. It was, you know, a long and hard process that lasted many months, it was longer and more difficult than we thought, and both sides had to overcome extremely painful internal problems many times. But we have been through this, and today we stand before you and ask for the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. And I dare say with a very good program. The government programme was prepared in cooperation with all parties involved in the government coalition and I am deeply convinced that it sets targets and addresses the problems corresponding to the situation in our country, which has a huge potential for growth and which has a chance to go back to where it once was - at the top of Europe. It brings solutions to the most important problems people face every day. In addition, many other requirements of business associations, tripartite participants, trade unions and many other professional associations were incorporated into the program. Of course, our government will do everything we can to implement the program. And the program has six main points. It's pension reform, digital Czechia. And it is mainly a struggle for our Czech interests in the European Union and European interests in the world in which we want to participate actively. It is also a strategic investment programme, a reform of the state and a strengthening of security. These are points on which I believe there is broad agreement not only in the government coalition but also across society. In the past few months, when the last government worked in demise, and I think we've had quite a good time, people have been constantly talking about these very things. In our meetings with citizens, of course, we have taken on a huge number of other good ideas, often very inspiring. Of course, we put pension reform first, it is essential. We all know the facts. The age of survival is increased and the number of beneficiaries of old-age pensions is increasing. And even though the legal retirement age is gradually increasing, it is important to note that pensioners have no income other than old-age pensions, and that is very low today. The average pension this year will be CZK 12,240 and the people who receive this pension and lower is CZK 1,300,000. We want to guarantee regular pension valorisation linked to the development of consumption basket prices for seniors and average wage growth. In Parliament, we have adopted a law on increasing the basic pension ratio from 9 to 10 per cent of the average wage. The adjustment for all guaranteed pension components will contribute to the improvement of the standard of living especially for people with low pensions, where the basic income constitutes a significant part of the pension. Mostly women who worked for a lower wage than men who sacrificed a career in child care or other dependent family members. It is this group that is significantly threatened by poverty. I believe change is of great importance to them. An increase in the basic pension ratio is a one-off step that will not completely interfere with the principle of merit applied in calculating the pension. The current legislation takes into account the increased cost of living for persons who reach 100 years and automatically grants them a pension increase of CZK 2 000 per month. A similar increase of CZK 1,000 per month is now approved for those who reach 85 years. It means a jump raise for 200,000 people. We also want to introduce a 75 per cent discount on trains and buses for seniors over 65 from 1 September 2018. Why should we not allow the elderly to travel easier? Not only to deal with your affairs, but also to visit family, grandchildren or friends. And the exact same benefits both students and students should have under 26 years of age. As a result of the extended retirement age, the subject of early retirement opportunities for people employed in demanding professions, which cannot be exercised until the proper retirement age, is also serious. We are preparing a proposal that will allow an earlier retirement paid out of employers' contributions, employees' contributions and support from the State. We are determined to prepare and enforce years of deferred pension reform. To this end, we will set up a professional working team that will carry out an overall review of the outputs of previous pension committees, evaluate the existing system and propose basic systemic changes to pension reform based on predictions of demographic, social and economic developments. The reform must be prepared and discussed in such a way as to guarantee the long-term stability of the system. And it must be implemented in a form that will receive broad political and social support. He'll be heading for the future. It will maintain the demands of those who have already entered the labour market. This will serve a sensitive and fair transition period. We want to separate the revenue and expenditure management of the pension system from the state budget. For the first time this year, we will have a surplus pension account plus 3.5 billion. This will guarantee greater transparency and predictability and, at the same time, greater protection against incompatible, politically motivated interventions. This administration will maintain the benefits of the existing system, which has traditionally proven itself, such as reliability and high level of legal certainty, low cost, professionalism and the public legal guarantees in the management of insurance premiums. Of course, we want to reopen the debate on how employers will be - and today is the ideal time and situation for this, because we have the lowest unemployment in Europe - to contribute to workers' old age savings. There is an equally important question with pension reform - finance. Mr. President has already talked about where we'll take it all. The Ministry of Finance continues successfully in the course of improving tax collection due to the successful fight against tax evasion and fraud, not due to tax increases, as was customary until the end of 2013. As of 30 June 2018, annual tax revenue growth at the level of public budgets, including insurance plus 7.9 percent. The most important VAT tax has been collected by the State by 8.2% more than during the same period last year. The absolute expression for VAT is annual growth of CZK 14.8 billion for all tax revenues including insurance, and it is even plus CZK 61.3 billion. Moreover, the State collects taxes better even though it also reduces them in the long term. Yes, we're reducing taxes. I'm looking to the right. I would remind you that in 2018, for example, the tax advantage for the first dependent child increased by CZK 1,800 per year or the recovery of the possibility of applying a discount to the second spouse and a tax advantage to children in case of application of flat-rate expenses. If the tax burden had not been reduced, tax collection would have been even higher. [[10.10 hours]] Next year in connection with the amendment to the Sales Recording Act - and the President here forgot to say that the IT system EET can serve a great example of how it can be done in six months and it works - the Ministry of Finance also proposes another significant tax reduction. Tax reductions - I repeat out loud. More than half of the VAT reduction from the current rate of 21 per cent to 10 per cent should be applied to hairdressing and beauty services, repair of bicycles, footwear, treatment and repair of clothing and household textile products, and sale of draft beer. The government's approved proposal also envisages further reduction of VAT in the food and beverage sector, where it has already been reduced in connection with the start of the first phase of electronic sales record rate from 21 percent to 15 percent, and we are now proposing this to 10 percent. The aim of the amendment is also a real reduction in the prices of water and sewerage for the final consumer by reducing VAT from 21 per cent to 10 per cent per aqueous and permeable. The Ministry of Finance, thanks to price regulation and price control instruments in the water sector, also has tools to ensure that this difference does not remain with water companies. Because when we cut our VAT on drugs, that's where we didn't quite manage to get it into people's prices. We hear that the increase in tax collection is a good part of the economic cycle. In fact, however, the estimated annual growth in government and household consumption spending is less than half the VAT growth. And it is very clear that the successful measures that the finance department comes up with are behind the great numbers. I would like to remind you of some of the measures that are part of the tax package for 2019 under discussion by this House. Significant changes are taking place in the area of the Income Tax Act, where several measures are proposed against tax evasion in particular by large corporations. This is, for example, a restriction on the deductibility of interest from the tax base by a limit of CZK 80 million or 30% of EBITDA, tax on transfer of property without change of ownership abroad, taxation of controlled foreign companies or rules against abuse of non-compliance with tax systems. A new obligation is also introduced for corporations that pay more profits or other income abroad, which are normally subject to withholding tax, to notify this payment to the tax authorities. As is widely known, a huge amount of dividends leaves our country every year, 250 billion. In March 2018, the Ministry of Finance completed an important amendment to the Sales Recording Act, which contains a solution to the record of sales for the smallest entrepreneurs. The amendment sets out the conditions to be met by an entrepreneur in order to record off-line sales without the need for electronic cashiers and internet connection. At the same time, this solution will ensure that the record of the sales of these small entrepreneurs will be sufficiently conclusive and will not undermine the EET's main objective, which is to level up the business environment across all economic segments. Let me just remind you that last year EET brought 6 billion extra crowns into our budget. We also respond to the phenomenon of a shared economy, both at home and in the European field. At European Union level The Ministry of Finance has advocated an initiative highlighting the need for international exchange of information in the area of a shared and digital economy, which is the key to its fair taxation. With regard to the European Union, we continue to fight for our reverse charge project. For four years now, we're closing in on the finals. We still need to convince two Member States, because for such a change, the consent of all Member States is needed for such a project. In order to avoid any doubts about the taxation of Airbnb and Uber services, the Financial Administration has published the relevant methodology. Already in April 2018, the finance department submitted an amendment to the Local Charges Act, which sets equal rules for the short-term accommodation market. The amendment, welcomed by hoteliers, towns and municipalities, replaces the existing fees for accommodation capacity and for a spa or recreation stay with a single stay fee, which will be subject to a short stay, regardless of where it is provided or what its purpose is. An important agreement between the State and Uber is scheduled for Thursday. The Ministry of Finance also successfully continues to fight illegal gambling and regulation of legal gambling. The vending machines end up in restaurants and bars. In the last six months alone, 9 300 machines and 1,400 establishments have disappeared from cities and villages. From the original number of more than 6,000 establishments, we are now roughly 2,500, less than half. The power to dispose of illegal gambling acquired in January 2017 Customs and discovered dozens of black halls, seized over 1,600 illegal vending machines and quiz machines and nearly 4 million crowns in cash. Although the Czech Republic ranks among the least-indebted countries of the European Union in size of its debt, this means that we are somewhere on the third or fourth place, we are still keeping the trend of reducing it. So while in 2017 the debt of the general government sector was 34.6 percent of GDP, this year we expect it to fall to 32,9 percent and for 2019 even 31,6 percent. The balance of the general government sector is also decreasing. In 2017, it was 1.6%, and the expectations for 2018 are 1.5 percent. And the structural balance, i.e. the cyclic-adjusted balance, is also reaching a positive value. The estimate of 2018 is 0,8 per cent of GDP. The excellent level of Czech public finances was confirmed by several important credit rating agencies during the period of the end of the government. I'd say a few words about deficit on that occasion, too. We have clearly stated in the programming statement: Yes, we would like to move towards a balanced budget, but we also say that if we invest more than a deficit from Czech money, then, of course, we need to perceive the situation, the debt from the past in investment. Mr. President here was talking about the ten-year investment plan. Yes, we'll do the math, virtually. We're almost done, and we're approaching a thousand billion. And our growth today, one of the highest in Europe, is driven by consumption and exports. And in investment, we have a huge debt from the past. So if there is a crisis, as some predict - and of course it is not excluded, we will see how President Trump will introduce tariffs on cars, and if, unfortunately, there is going to be a trade war going on, which, of course, is very bad for Europe and for the whole world - then we must prepare ourselves for the situation of a crisis. But that's the kind of growth that's supposed to be driven by investment. And if we're going to have these investments ready, and for next year, I repeat, there's more than 80 billion there, I think it needs to be perceived. The deficit is minimal. 50 billion. Only pensions are 38 billion and into education, increase in teacher salaries and start of reform is 25 billion. So only those two posts are 63 billion combined. And of course, I agree with Mr. President on the waste that we have so many officials. Yes, that's what we're dealing with. We have 16,000 black souls. And within the new budget, we have negotiated with the various ministries that we are already reducing these posts there regardless of reducing the salaries of those employees. And I think the amount we found is 3.5 billion. And that it's wasted - well, yes, there are certainly huge reserves. But if we want to have an effective state, then we need competence. And we also need a Civil Service Act, where the minister isn't in the numbers compared to some state ministers, it's not funny. And that's why I'm definitely gonna push individual ministers to save them from insuring, not using various external agencies and maybe unnecessary advisors. [[10.20 hours]] Nonprofit organizations get 18 billion. per year. I'm still waiting for analysis because I still haven't been provided with a survey of nonprofits for 2017. I have announced that the dramatic increase from 2014 to 2017 should fall by 2 billion, but so far the ministries to present this did not agree on the figures, so hopefully the officials will quickly calculate it so that we can tell the public. Of course, the nonprofits need to be analysed. A third is a sport. And of course, we want to separate the sport, and we want to watch the rest. And the highest costs are in two departments, and this is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education. So, yes, the president speaks - that's one of his mantras - renewables. Every year. Yes, that scandalous decision is going to cost us a thousand billion, and I'd like to deal with it. And I'm calling on everyone here, not just my colleagues here, but the public, if anyone finds a way to solve the recipient of the solarium, the above standard, I'll be happy. And this took place at the meeting between Mr. President, CEO of ČEZ and myself, where, of course, CEZ was also the one who invested in very strange structures of renewable resources. And if, of course, he comes now and gives us some cookbook and recipe for the Treasury, which, of course, today wins those arbitrations - not by hiring expensive lawyers externally, but at the level of officials who may be taking 50 grand or less. So, yes, I agree. And the fact that we have so many officers? It's possible. But, of course, we must fight against bureaucracy, we must promote digitalisation. And then I'm convinced we can save a lot of money. So I would just repeat - we're growing GDP, we're holding a deficit, and so we're reducing state debt. I repeat, we're reducing state debt. In my capacity as Minister of Finance, I reduced him by 73 billion. Yes, and now we're reducing it, too, absolutely. And don't forget how much we've given the RUD to self-government, regions, municipalities. Self-administration today has 200 billion in its accounts at the moment. CZK - they have 200 billion in their accounts. Crowns. The state has a debt. We don't have anything in our account. So it needs to be perceived. We're very sympathetic. And even now, we've found four billion in the budget that we inherited. CZK to repair the roads of the second and third classes. In order to return to the priorities of the Ministry of Finance, these are the other ones - in the last seven months, steps are also being taken to protect the consumer. The amendment to the Exchange Act introduces the right of the customer to withdraw from the contract in the closed trade within two hours of the execution of the exchange. It is important to increase transparency in the management of state property. The Ministry of Finance also contributed significantly to this by launching a state electronic auction system that ensures transparent sale of state assets through electronic auctions. The Ministry of Finance will continue to work intensively on its commitment to simplifying and electronising the tax system and moving communication with the Financial Authority into an online environment under the MY Tax project. It will launch an Internet tax portal that will provide a comprehensive overview of the taxpayer's tax history, allow submission in tax administration and offer pre-filled tax returns. Just like we promised people. We will cancel the super gross wage on personal income tax and propose a new reduced rate of 19 percent of the gross wage. I'm sure we all remember how it came about, the super gross wage, that something was promised, then it didn't work out, and that's how the super gross wage came into being. So we will maintain the current solidarity tax increase by introducing a rate of 23 per cent of the gross wage. We will allow entrepreneurs to apply a deduction from the tax base of a separate activity of three quarters of the insurance premiums paid by them. In relation to employees, changes in the tax burden reduction system will bring about one percentage point. The Ministry of Finance will review and merge tax exemptions, creating room for further reduction of the tax burden. It will submit a proposal for a new conceptual legal regulation on income tax in order to simplify taxes and eliminate tax distortions. Recodification of income taxes will be completed by the preparation of an integrated tax management system and insurance contributions, which will allow the payment of these legal obligations in one place. In the area of a shared economy, the Ministry will focus on further removal of the tax administrator's information deficit in relation to transactions taking place through these Internet platforms, thereby contributing to the promotion and development of a shared economy as a prospective business area whose successful development will not go without a proper organisational and legislative solution at a multi-departmental level. We also need to be clear about the salaries of civil servants. We have negotiated with trade unionists several times within the tripartite, but in our opinion it is not okay to raise salaries across the board. If GIBS has an average salary of 60,000 and employees of the Czech Social Security Administration in Prague 22 700 and have 30 percent fluctuations, it is not normal for us to surface. So we have to raise where we really need to go. And even though unionists say that flat salary increases are solidarity, I don't think so. Solidarity in our concept means that we will not allow further expansion of scissors, as was the case in recent years. We really need to raise where the smallest salaries are - teachers, culture, social services, etc. We also want to fight usury. Since 2017, the Consumer Credit Act has been in force, which limits usury, but it is clear that we need a ceiling so that some people do not borrow money before paying 150 per annum. We will see how effective this law is and, if necessary, we will change it. Of course, the insolvency law that was discussed in the House is very important. And we discussed that this morning at the Justice Department with the new Minister of Justice, because of course it has an impact on the courts, the number of judges who will decide. And we really need to finally get these people out, and there's not enough of them, out of the debt trap. These and many other steps, which form part of the programming declaration, are proof that the Ministry of Finance's Ministry's Department will certainly not slow down in the coming years in the fight against tax evasion and aggressive tax planning, consumer protection in financial markets, consistent tax management of international corporations, and active management of public finances and the state budget. So I'm repeating to finance - we're reducing taxes. If anyone wants to characterize what kind of government we are, I've always said that our movement is here for everyone. [[10.30 hours]] One of the main objectives of the government is digitization of the Czech Republic. It is an area that, thanks to its completely unsatisfactory state, is a great challenge for us. We set out on a journey that has only one goal - to make a scarecrow in the form of dealing with the authorities a simple and perhaps a pleasant matter for all people, for our citizens, so that they do not have a horror of it when they go to the office. The digital Czech project has already begun. Not only the government, but the various ministries are involved. On February 14, 2018, we appointed a government representative for IT and digitization, who has a mandate from the government and prepares both the concept of the digital Czech Republic and the implementation plan. We cannot have dozens of strategies, we need one binding for all that we will implement and which will move us forward. From 1 July 2018, we have electronic ID cards, a functional national point for identification and authorization, changes in the issue of civil certificates and passports, complete reconstruction of procedures, handling of driving licences, citizens' portal with online services. The Digitalization Act is under way. We are dealing with the shared economy of Uber and Airbnb and other projects. Last week, a commentary procedure on the concept of digital Czechia was concluded. After settling the comments of the ministries, we will have a concept covering the whole digitization. New legislation, roof law, is linked to digital service. I'm sure both of the areas we receive will revolutionize the way we provide digital services today and speed up the process of digitization. We want to set clear rules for eGovernment, we want to deliver services and not just talk about them and we want to see a clear contribution to the citizen. I look at the digital Czech Republic as something that will improve our lives in relation to the functioning of the state towards citizens and the authorities themselves. In the future, services must be centrally done, solutions as standardized as possible for everyone and use modern approaches and technologies. We need to look into the future at 4.0, which is being formed through digitization. We need necessarily capable and educated people in various fields, to take care of graduates' employment, to deal with the labour market. This is linked to a profound change in the whole industry and industry. At the same time, it is the third pillar of our plan, which extends its scope to various fields and competences of different ministries. We know we can't do this without money and knowledge. We are prepared to support digitalisation not only in words, but also financially. We want to build knowledge by linking state administration with academic sphere and commercial suppliers. We need to create the conditions for these worlds to meet and jointly implement projects that will put us in the world's leading position. In order for all of this to work, we also need to solve the connection issue at the same time. There are still plenty of homes and places with us, where the Internet is not available and especially fast and affordable data. And that's what this is about. We need to speed up digitalisation urgently and develop an environment that supports digital technologies, including high-speed Internet. We will promote competition in the telecommunications market, which will finally lead to a reduction and improvement of services. We're going to use the frequencies that will be released by switching to a new digital television standard. We will ensure that frequency auctions are made transparently and will support the optimal development of the 5G network. We are very interested in ensuring proper competition and not to disadvantage any of the operators. I know these are huge targets, but we have many experts in our country, we have excellent commercial and good patterns covered. We can therefore make innovative eGovernment using state-of-the-art technologies to set up a stepping stone for future generations. The government is prepared to support the potential of our companies and economies in this matter. The digital programme of the Czech Republic, digitalisation and electronicisation of the state administration cannot be a single term programme. We must finally end with the fact that we are going to handle everyday situations, such as the handling of maternity, driver's license, new IDs, a rewrite of a car or the establishment of a business. I firmly hope that all political parties and movements will participate in this project and we will have the same view on this. The third important programme of the programming declaration is active foreign policy. Czech foreign policy will rely on several fundamental pillars - good, open and friendly relations with all neighbours and nearest countries based on mutual trust, still open communication line and cultural and economic cooperation. The second pillar of our foreign policy is the European Union - a community of European countries that combines their desire to live in peace and to cooperate openly. These are countries that claim democracy, freedom and a market economy. Our membership of the European Union has no alternative. Let's see what's going on in the UK. And the companies come to us and tell us what's going on. And it won't be good for Great Britain. We will be active in the European Union. That is why we rushed - our first minority government - and we knew that we would not get the first confidence, but we rushed to the first European summit on December 14 to declare Czech interests clearly and aloud, our interests in the European Union, which are clear. Migration - we don't want quotas, we don't want mandatory relocations, and we also achieved this thanks to the excellent cooperation within the V4 at a meeting that lasted until 4:30 a.m., but it worked. They can no longer outvote us, no one can impose on us who will work and live in our country. We're solidarity, we're giving money, we're sending our cops and soldiers, and we're taking economic migrants from other countries. We need them, but that's what we want to make our own decisions about. And that is one of our priority interests, and I think that within the European Union we have shown that we actually have influence at last. And I think that in this regard we agree with all political parties and movements such as our Czech national interests in Europe. Our further concern is, of course, security - not the destruction of Schengen, but security. We have made it clear what solution - stopping migration, Australian model, Ellis Island, creating hotspots outside Europe. And what we said in 2015 is finally accepted by other countries, and they are glad that we are at the forefront of these opinions. We will certainly continue to be active, creating effective alliances and alliances. The Presidency of Austria is now important, where we really have very good relations. We'll be active in terms of budget. I find it scandalous that the European Union has put forward a budget where the cost of European structures does not reduce by 15 per cent, with Brexit leaving 15 per cent of the population of the European Union, but increases by 20 per cent. And the difference is 25 billion. EUR. Unbelievable impertinence! 25 billion. They want to raise the euro. And I am so glad that Austrian Prime Minister Sebastian Kurz and I have absolutely the same view of this. We also have the view that we want to influence the money that comes through European funds. Not that we are being dictated again by the ESF, the European Social Programme, but that was at a time when we had unemployment of 9.5%, was the 2014-2020 programme. We want to influence it, we want to make decisions. And the debate that we're getting some money and that we need to be in the forward direction is not appropriate. Voices from the past when they said you had to take migrants because they wouldn't give us money, that's totally unacceptable. And I don't think anyone's saying that anymore. Of course, we have the same view. 25 billion leave Poland each year. Euro dividends, from us 10 billion. So, prospectively, our relationship will be completely different. That balance is going to be plus a billion euros, which is why if everyone says we have to grow, we want to grow, but we want to invest. [[10.40 hours]] And I consider it absurd if, indeed, for example. MPSV received 58 billion for the 2014-2020 programming period. We really don't need to requalify people if we don't have practically who to work with and we have 260,000 job vacancies, we need to look at those who are unemployed at all, if a third doesn't do black, virtually. The next part gets so many doses that he doesn't need to work. So the budget is important and we're going to fight for it. We have three priorities. That means, we don't want to raise the budget, it's going to increase the GDP increase, and there's no need. Of course, we want to maintain cohesion and agriculture. I don't know why - I know, of course, why they introduce programs that have never been there, and the traditional ones are actually decreasing. And in this regard, we certainly have the same opinions with other countries. I've talked to x premieres about this, and this debate is going to be very difficult. It is even a question of whether we can do this within the current European Commission because we are going to have European elections next year and I think they will bring more surprises. Security, of course, is a priority, and we need to defend the continent. We have had a debate on the Western Balkans, if we are to expand the European Union. I think we should expand it. If we do not try, then the European Union will not, one block, the border at sea, yes, because the Western Balkans, of course... There is China, which has influence, Russia, Turkey. And everyone's talking about joining the eurozone, and I have to say, I'm glad we're not there, because we were actually discussing migrants until 4:30 in the morning, and the next day was the eurozone, and that was the same fight between Italy and the rest of the eurozone. And I'm glad we're not there because there's a clear need for reform. There are countries that do not respect budgetary policy, which are also overdebted, and I think it is good that we have our crown. And if anything happens, it's an important tool for our economy. So from the point of view of safety, I think that these opinions are changing gradually. And we should talk about Schengen, why there are no other countries, Bulgaria, Croatia and others, and we should not let Schengen fall apart, because of course the solution is simple. The solution is that smugglers must not make EUR 5.7 billion. I was sitting next to the Maltese Prime Minister, and he's at the rada saying, well, that's where the nonprofit ships are actually going, and they're sending a signal, where they're located next to Libya, and they're actually calling the smugglers, "Come on, get on board and bring in the economic migrants." These are economic migrants. And we're supposed to help those people at their house. We didn't make it through Syria, we did it by giving Turkey 3 billion euros, and now we're giving it again, and it's some kind of approach. But we should actually help those countries where they're going. And they pay for it, they pay for that hope. Somebody's making promises to them, and it's not true. Today we have 1.5 million people in Europe who have not received asylum. It's 500,000 in Germany. And those people should de facto leave Europe here, because according to the rules that we have today, that's what it is. So this is a big issue, and I think it's our big success, that we actually pushed through the fact that others accepted that there would be no quotas, that there would be voluntary relocations. Voluntary relocations. So migration, security and budget. The budget, if we cannot manage now, of course, we will see what the next Commission will be like, but I think that although the Czech Republic has only one priority in the past, we now have three and we are not alone. Of course, the third pillar of foreign policy is our participation in NATO. Mr. President flew to the NATO summit, and tomorrow I and Mr. First Vice-President of the Government, Hamáček, are flying together, representing the Czech Republic. The President has turned to me to represent him there. Of course, Atlantic ties are the basis of our security cooperation and foreign policy. Of course, we promise to increase our defense spending as we made a commitment at the summit in Wales in 2014. We're going to make clear plans, and I think we're doing it, and we have a vision on the table. I think that the previous Minister has also put a clear vision on the table, and even the current Minister certainly has clear ideas on how to deal with it. But, of course, we have to change the purchase of the military equipment. I find it absurd when a committee compares 33 people, evaluates a prototype that doesn't even exist with a radar that is at war every day. Unbelievable. So, of course, that's... Or it's the same with the choppers. There is also a prototype that does not exist. The question is, why does our army really want some things that don't exist when we have armies everywhere and all we have to do is ask. Last Friday I was in Karlovy Vary with the Polish Prime Minister and two helicopters are produced in Poland. It's foreign production. Blackhawks and augusts, for example. Falcons, I'm so sorry. So the Member corrects me, she understands it more than I do. But there's just two helicopter productions. So I think we need to get back to this government-level negotiation, and of course we're ready to raise the funds and the goal -- of course we've committed to two percent, but I think it's actually important to have that vision and say yes, we want to achieve that, and when. Our GDP is growing, so we're still catching up, but it's true that we're trending pretty well. The point is that the budget money is spent, and I think it might finally happen. So, of course, we want to carry out this commitment gradually, and we want to set up the systems so that we will probably discuss more at the level of governments. And foreign policy. Of course, we are an open economy, one of the most industrialized countries in Europe, and we must strive for new markets. It is important that we cooperate within the government, the MIT and abroad. We have a lot of different structures of czechtrads, czechinvests, agencies, czechturisms. I was in Finland, there's an ambassador, he'll serve it all himself. I used to be a deputy, and I almost served it myself. So we need to look for energy, we have the plan, we save 140 million on it, and we also have to define export policy specifically. We need to look at our balance, the way President Trump sees it. I dealt with the Chinese Prime Minister on Saturday, and the balance is... China is the second largest country in imports to us, 400 billion, and we have a 17th place in exports, so it is really necessary in these countries where politicians can open doors, do something concrete and have a clear picture of what we would like to sell. That is why I will turn to the Confederation of Industry and the Chamber of Commerce to meet with our entrepreneurs and companies to specifically say what they would like to sell. And we need to look at those posts, see if we're taking any parts to any montovens, and then it goes like a product. So we should do a concrete analysis outside the EU and do an active export policy, and there I think we can definitely be of benefit to that. [[10.50 hours]] The next item is the strategic investment plan and reform of the state. Of course, we visited 12 regions within the former government. Everyone laughed at us that it was such a trip about nothing. It's not true. We really mapped out our country's investment plan. It's important that we have plans to plan at all. We didn't plan anything here - no doctors, no nurses, no welders, no profession, nothing short! I know that with planning someone can remember some other times, but each company plans and the state should also plan. And I find it absurd, for example, that when we didn't plan on, for example, in professions, that we found out that, for example, 2.5,000 students don't get to the medical school every year because they weren't educators. We just figured that out. They're not doctors, but on the other hand, we're not actually gonna let students who do the exams study it. So, the investments. Yes, we're finalizing it, and it's definitely going to be over a thousand billion. And that's our growth. Yes, but, of course, our companies need to get people to do that, and we need to look at it for a long time, because we know that from the moment they decide on an investment, and before all this is done within our bureaucracy and an incredibly long approval of investment - it takes four or five years. Today we have a budget that has been approved - the government, there is a contradiction of about 10 billion. And there are, for example, 40 monuments in 1.1 billion. And we would need to start, and it is important that the money is recovered, and of course there is, for example, Prague's Invalidovna, which is worth a billion, but we need about 20 million for next year. And we have to start so we can plan, and that's what the construction companies want from us. About the state administration. I think I already talked about it. The Civil Service Act, we really didn't do it. I'm putting ashes on my head. Now we see it in practice. And I really think it's abnormal that the minister doesn't have the opportunity to replace his subordinate if he doesn't work well or cause a problem, and it's abnormal that the Minister is actually blocking the Secretary of State. We have about two or three state secretaries today who are PN. And specifically, the one at the Department of Health paralyzes the resort. There's occupancy about, I don't know, 54 percent. This is ridiculous! This isn't normal! And that's why we have a proposal in the House to change the state service, and I think that objectively everyone should acknowledge that if I get into office, then... Of course, it's not like someone's gonna come and clean it all up. I came to the government office with a colleague. But the point is, if the secretary's coworker or the secretary's office isn't really working, then he must have some way of dealing with it. And today is a huge competition. There's a good labor struggle today, and the state is competing with the private today. They're not human. So I think it needs to be changed. We just had a systemization in the government. There were some changes without raising money or places, and I asked Mr Postráneckýý how things look with Brusel, and it is not true that Brusel had any reservations. I also said that if Brusel has reservations, I would be happy to discuss it myself. So we really need this so that we can manage the state effectively, so that there's also some competition for those posts, so that it's not still recycled officials who are actually circulating from one resort to another. As far as the Department of Transport is concerned, we will definitely continue to invest, we will continue to start construction of new motorways and city bypasses, which remain the top priority in the Department of Transport. Currently we have built 194 km of new roads and set up another 150 km. We will intensify the construction of motorways on all major routes, namely D1, D3, D4, D6, D7, D11, D35, D48, D49, D52, D55, and complete modernization of the D1 motorway between Prague and Brno. By 2021 we will operate 210 km of motorways, including 110 km of new motorways and 100 km of upgraded D1. This is also related to the amendment to the Act on Acceleration of Construction, which aims to accelerate the approval and preparation of important transport structures. If it is also approved by the senators and signed by the President, it will be our absolute priority to implement it quickly so that we can finally complete the basic motorway network. I asked the Minister for Transport, because the ŘSD is coming up with some deadlines, so that the ŘSD is actually committed to the 2025 term, when we should get all the highways up and running. I'm sure it's a great shame when the Polish Prime Minister tells me we're already on the border with you. The Austrian Prime Minister, he's on the border twice, and we're still a long way away. This, of course, was to be realized before joining the EU and the emergence of regions, but somebody probably forgot about it right after the revolution. We also want to, of course, try to find money to repair roads II. and III. classes. There is a huge deficit, i.e. 90 billion. We have found four billion in the 2018 budget and, of course, we will keep trying. We would like to implement PPP forms, which means public-private partnerships. We are discussing the pilot project at D4 and we would like to see it possible on other motorways such as D7, D6, D3 and D35. For the next parliamentary term, we also want to introduce an electronic road sign that can be purchased over the Internet. We also want to focus on driving and starting drivers so that they are not a deadly danger to themselves and others. Therefore, for example, we will enforce for them a driving licence with a limited validity of up to two years in which they will have to undergo training in order to improve their driving skills and skills when dealing with crisis situations. For passengers on the railway we will ensure repair of at least 60 important railway buildings, such as Prague-Smíchov, Most, Křižanov or Havířov, we will also continue to open the market on the railway, but at the same time we will focus on the new role of our national carrier, České dráhy. As part of travel, we are also planning a single tariff, i.e. that passengers will buy a single ticket regardless of which carrier they will travel with. In the area covered by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, for example, I can start with the state's material reserves, as the President has said. I've already talked about this in the past as Minister of Finance, but unfortunately it didn't work out then. We really have tens of billions in state material reserves, in different metals and other things that are changing, and I think we need to see if we really need it. God forbid, if there was a war, of course what do we need? We need air gasoline, kerosene, diesel, petrol, and if it's the worst, flour, dried milk and water. And if we're still changing things there, I think it would be important from the point of view of the cash flow state. We've had a debate about oil in the past. Oil. The European Union is telling us: you must have oil reserves. The only problem is, we don't have the refineries, and we don't have a contract, so if anything happens, I don't know who would process the oil after that. So I think we should mostly have aviation gasoline, diesel and these in terms of these commodities. But oil not stored abroad, of course. We'll all remember what happened. [[11.00 hours]] We, in the past governments, have decided on a procedure to actually build a nuclear source. The president criticized it. I cannot agree with him in this regard because we have some energy concept, but that is obviously the question of how much the state had or has had influence on ČEZ and whether in the past, why we privatized energy and water mainly. Big mistake. And I'm very clear about the core myself. Dukovany is ready, and every private investor will say to you, "Well, we'll do Dukovany, I don't know how much it is. Two hundred, three hundred billion. We're gonna stick a hundred percent to CEZ's daughter, and we're gonna do a competition for that. Suppliers, funding, technology, possibly joint venture. That's a trivial thing for businessmen. Unfortunately, I failed to convince my colleagues during the previous government. And there are actually three options proposed. That the state should start investing - I consider that nonsense. Or that we should divide ČEZ - I also think that is nonsense. ČEZ has very good numbers. Debt/EBITDA is one of the lowest in Europe. So... And of course, we should have built that core a long time ago. Each entrepreneur first builds his business at home, then goes to the surrounding states. Well, we chose the Balkans and God knows where. And it turned out the way it did. We should have had that core a long time ago. Why didn't we finish Temelín? So I think it's clear here. Dukovany has a lifespan. It needs to be decided. And for me, but, of course, we're going to discuss this within the government, and we have a team and a committee and an agent. But I say, is this the 100% daughter of Čez? ČEZ is supposed to guarantee it, yes, in case something happens, and we as a government can support it by being second in line. Yes, after the Čez, after the mother. This will, of course, improve the financial conditions of the financing and, of course, give it credibility and support it. But ČEZ is not our 100% daughter. So we will certainly have this debate and, of course, it is necessary to go back to that concept and look at the coal power plants and the steam gases, and what we have built in the past. But we were supposed to have a core. The way France has it. And, of course, the EU's idea of increasing renewables is pointless, because we are not Norway, we are not here in northern Germany. We're here. There's a tradition. And, of course, those nuclear energy sources are also the most economically advantageous for us. But we also have to look at how much we export, how much we import, and how much we look at the overall balance sheet. And I think this time I'm convinced we can do it. So in the area of industry and trade, we want to ensure energy security and self-sufficiency and smooth supply of energy and heat at competitive prices for businesses and households. Competitively capable. We should've looked at the raises compared to other countries, see if we were in bad shape. And I think we are. Furthermore, we want to promote the reduction of the energy performance of public private buildings from central renewable sources and smart energy projects. We will further strengthen the coordination of activities to promote the digitalisation of Czech industry and economy, including related impacts on trade, labour market, education, especially thanks to the strengthening of the alliance's activities Company 4.0 and close cooperation within the digital Czech Republic. An update of the National Clean Mobility Action Plan will be prepared by the end of 2018. As regards financial support for the acquisition of low-emission vehicles, we will cooperate with the Ministry of Transport and the MIT. As one of the measures, an analysis of possible aid for the acquisition of electric vehicles is being carried out. In the field of consumer protection, we have set up measures against fraudulent e-shops and, in cooperation with the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, Energy Regulatory Office and State Energy Inspection, we are working on measures to help protect against unfair energy sellers, so-called. Energy scumbags. We want to protect consumers from tightening up the conditions for door-to-door sales, concluding telephone contracts, e-commerce or distance selling of financial services. The first version of the new Consumer Protection Act is almost complete and is approaching a consultation with the general public. It managed to close the memorandum with Uber and force it to comply with Czech laws, pay taxes and its drivers volunteered for the EET system. In cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, we want to amend the law so that we can simplify the taxi business so that it corresponds to the 21st century and that there is GPS navigation and mobile applications. The MIT was able to regain confidence in the telecommunications sector. We participated in a law that will significantly accelerate the construction of telecommunications networks. Furthermore, we will promote the change at the Ministry of Regional Development, which we want to turn into the Ministry of Public Investment, which would manage the complete issues relating to regions, cities and municipalities. We are working on changing the State Housing Development Fund to the State Investment Support Fund. This change will enable more efficient investment support to regions, e.g. for housing, including support for young and elderly people, playgrounds, sports grounds, repairs of local roads, revitalization of territories, regeneration of brownfields or, for example, tourism. The housing is, of course, a big subject. We sat with the Construction Union this week and agreed to set up such investment advice and make three platforms, which means transport infrastructure, housing and legislation. And the housing, that's what we're talking about. And I think it's simple. We should figure out who's building the apartments. There are no apartments. Why aren't they? The housing fund - the state in 1990, if it's the right date or a long time ago, transferred 600,000 flats to self-government. What happened to the apartments I don't know. But flats aren't, and they're barely built. And we need to figure out who's building the apartments. Well, I'm saying it's supposed to be built by municipalities and cities. The state doesn't build apartments. We have to help and create programs for municipalities and cities and create grant titles for it, as we did about schools in regional education, where we did the program, Ministry of Finance, where we gave 3.5 billion. about 160 municipalities and then gave 70 percent. But of course, we have to do an analysis. When I went to the county, who wanted apartments from us? Any cooperation? Well, Mladá Boleslav and another village. But we have to tell ourselves that the village of Němčovice, which has 208 inhabitants and the mayor has a project of flats on the table for 3.5 miles. And his budget is 2 million, so we should probably give him the 3.5, I don't know, maybe 3 million, yes, so he can build it because he doesn't have the budget. But why should we give Prague, which has 30 billion in its account. and that had some kind of coalition that was totally against... I mean in the beginning against, protinvestment. And we just forgot to build the apartments here. And we also have to tell ourselves and sit down with the developers that what they're expecting from us. Especially legislation, new construction law. And that's what the debate is about. We've had a debate here about social housing, but the mayor, I think the village and the city have an apartment committee. And if the mayor in Nemčovice builds the flats, then the community decides, and maybe one apartment will be starting for young husbands, maybe one will be for retired people, maybe one for social cases. For people who don't have the money. So I think that should be the debate. And that housing, of course, is a big problem. The rents are astronomical. We have to do something about it. And that, of course, is what we want to have a debate with everyone, because that is also a long-term strategy. [[11.10 hours]] Within the MMR we want to continue to use the position of the Czech Republic. We are the seventh safest country in the world, the seventh calmest, twenty-first happiest. Even though everyone's often upset, I don't know why. This tourism is very important. And more and more tourists come to our house. Every year we have a million extra passengers at the airport in Prague. We're gonna build a second runway. And we're opening new lines. At the 16+1 meeting with China, we presented - we have the most airline connections with China. And, of course, we need to get these tourists to other cities in our regions. Not that they are only on Karel IV Bridge or in Telč or in Český Krumlov. And that's what we want to invest in. It's important. Restoring our cultural heritage, monuments. And get those tourists into those places and stay there so they don't get there at 10:00 in the morning and leave at 6:00 in the afternoon. Within the MMR, we want to continue the trend of simplifying and faster drawing of European funds. I've already mentioned that we had a 14 billion internet program and only 50 (?). So we've been debating, and now we're supposed to draw $3 billion, and we've asked the European Commission for the rest to allow us to move the money where we have overhangs - health, education. So this is important for the next budget with the European Union. MMR also started the process of recodification of building law. We really didn't do enough there. Everyone says it's very complicated, that it's changing, I don't know how many, 80 laws, but it really needs to be done quickly. We just want one office, one stamp, one permit. So less bureaucracy and plus electronization. So we want the office to be faster and sometimes so that it doesn't have to be in office at all. And that should also be - and let us hope that the terms that colleagues remember are not real, because I don't like it at all, and it should be a priority of those laws. Sports. Previously, the exhibition closet of the Czech Republic, mainly Czechoslovakia. Like a social phenomenon that interests almost all of us, women, men, children or adult seniors. He has been experiencing difficult times in recent years and has suffered enormous problems. Traditional collective sports, which are so typical of us, have always represented us well and for which we have provided systematic support, do not produce the expected results. They stopped being a place of success, joy and national pride. We haven't won hockey since 2007. And not much at the Olympics in ball sports either. Instead, we see how toxic the sports environment is, how it is affected by corruption scandals, when the person receiving the funds is decided not entirely objectively, without clear criteria and control. And we have to promote sport. Our young population has substantially stopped moving. Motion literacy's dropping, kids really don't get to do a khole in gym class. Their interest and interest in their health and active development decreases, leading to children's failure to move, fatten, and health problems. We want to change the unhappy state of the Czech sports environment and the situation that arose in it. We have created a position as a government sports agent, this is Milan Hnilička, who is supposed to bring a new perspective to the environment and a fundamentally better quality of sports issues. We need to be clear about what our priorities are, what we want to support in sport and what we will allocate funds for, so that we can support both sports activities and infrastructure. The Government Commissioner for Sport, who is subordinate to the Prime Minister, will cooperate with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, coordinate the area of State aid for sport and define new needs both in financial and legislative matters and, of course, institutional ones. It will prepare an amendment to the Sport Support Act, which will create a new central sports authority, a national sports agency that will comprehensively ensure the implementation of state policy in the area of promoting sport and the movement activities of the population. The National Sports Agency will create clear and clear conditions for sport as an effective central apparatus for the performance of sport needs, ensure transparency of the flow of funding for individual sports programmes, improve their predictability and stability. In this respect, the digitalisation of the sports environment will be an essential step. Finally, a very clear record of athletes, clubs and associations, provided financial support for them. The funds will also be provided for investments in the construction of new sports sites and in the reconstruction and reconstruction of existing ones. This set clear and logical conditions for the needs of the sports environment will allow us to see much better how funding for sport is handled, for which it is used and what results it brings. When we visit individual regions today and meet with their representatives, as well as representatives of cities and municipalities, we communicate with the sports environment and see their needs, so we find a great consensus that if we want to make an effective modernisation and development of the sport infrastructure of local, regional and national importance, we must jointly involve both state resources and those which release regions, cities and municipalities into sport. Mutual cooperation is a necessary necessity and need in this respect. Already today, our emphasis on sport is reflected by increased funds from the state budget, which in the proposal for 2019 amount to CZK 8.2 billion. Compared to 2017, there is an increase of more than 3.5 billion crowns. In the field of sport, we will do our utmost to move more people, improve mobility in children, bring them back to sport and, above all, the joy of sports. We want to provide enough resources for coaches who will fully engage in children and create better sports facilities for talent and sports representation. We would like to set the best possible conditions for achieving further success with our current and future athletes, both in individual and collective sports. In the social field, I would point out that, in the future, we need mainly social welfare reform and labour market regulation. We have 240,000 unemployed, at least in Europe, and we have 260,000 job vacancies. But job vacancies. And the workforce of almost all professions is lacking, not just doctors, nurses, and educators. But of course we have a problem, because some people simply don't want to work and take doses. We need to change the policy of the Labour Office, which will be a labour market coordinator, actively communicating with all participants in order to implement job seekers as quickly as possible and meet employers' requirements, to consistently apply an individual approach to clients. We must change the inefficient system of retraining, involve employers more in training for the profession, and anticipate developments and changes in the structure of the profession. We will also evaluate the effectiveness of changes in some social benefits made in past years. We cannot stand idly by the fact that some benefits, namely housing benefits, have become an interesting business for some quasi-businessmen. We change them in such a way that their drawing is subject to compliance with a certain obligation on the part of the beneficiaries of the benefit and ideally leads to restrictions or completely eliminates their dependence on social benefits. In this context, we will start a dialogue with municipalities on the functional division of roles in the social field and, in agreement, we will propose such changes so that working with the client is really effective. We lay down clear competences and rules between different departments, between state, county and self-government. I was talking about nonprofit organizations. You really need to do an analysis and break it apart, separate the sport. And I'm sure my colleagues from the ministries I was talking about will be trying to find savings. About education. Education is our absolute priority. We will continue to promote more money for education so that teachers' salaries at the end of this parliamentary term in 2021 reach an average of 45 thousand per month. [[11.20 hours]] We are also aware of the importance of non-teaching staff in education, which is why we will provide them with an increase in salaries of 150 percent by the end of the term of office for 2017. We will also complete and financially ensure an upcoming change in the financing of regional education, which will not only bring about the elimination of unjustified differences in funding of the same types of schools, but, in addition to fairer funding, will also enable schools to increase the quality of teaching, for example in mathematics or language teaching. In 2019 we will not only increase the salaries of pedagogical workers by 15 percent, of which 10% in the tariff section and 5% in the non-interest component of the salary, but we will significantly support kindergarten schools, both by investing in securing new capacities, especially in places where there is not yet enough room for three-year-olds, as well as by non-investmentally securing funds for extending their operating time or covering overlays. With a view to increasing the security for school directors from September 2019 onwards, we will provide schools with the means to improve the quality of teaching so that the transition to a changed method of financing regional education takes place smoothly and predictablely for schools and their directors. We are aware that it is necessary to start immediately with the settlement of unjustified interregional differences, and that is why we will begin to address this problem by means of the Development Programme in 2019. As we are aware of the need to restore the prestige of the teaching profession, we will also support the quality of the preparation of future educators who are the necessary condition and guarantee the improvement of our education. We will strengthen cooperation between faculties preparing teachers and schools in which students practice. In managing and financing the system of public higher education, we will take much more into account the social needs of certain professions, especially doctors, teachers, technical disciplines, medical staff. For years of unsolved lack of doctors, this year we will start implementing an action plan to strengthen the number of Czech students at medical faculties so that faculties can acquire between 10 and 15 percent more from 2019 than currently. From 1 September 2018, the medical faculties will receive 130 million from the budget. extra crowns and from next year 650 a year. Supporting science will be a government priority. The Government Board on Research, Development and Innovation will implement a new research management system based on the balance of basic applied research, consistent control of resource management and a new system of evaluation of institutional and dedicated support. The results of the evaluation of research organisations will have a direct impact on their financing. We will support a gradual increase in the institutional component of funding of science and research and its adequate ratio to the purpose component of financing in order to stabilise the research environment of the Czech Republic. We will stress strengthening international activities, excellent research and supporting the involvement of young talented researchers in the system of science and research as a whole. At the same time, we will reduce administrative demands when drawing on the special-purpose support. The government will coordinate research management across the departments not only in terms of support from national sources but also from the European Union and will stimulate the business sector to further invest in research, development and innovation with a total objective of achieving a share of all R & D expenditure of 2% of GDP. But don't be scared now, it's not really the same thing as defense, but that 2% of GDP - and for comparison, Israel has 4, Germany 3 - is actually the sum of resources from the state budget, that's 35 billion, 40 billion. give businessmen and 15 billion. gives the European Union within the funds, so overall it is 90 billion. And that's the prospective increase, the target. So it's not just 2 percent of ours, but it's from these three components. We also cannot talk over and over again about strengthening technical education. We're still talking about a dual system here, and I don't understand why we haven't brought it in a long time ago. The other day, Prime Minister Durynsko came to see me and asked me to come and see how they organized it. I think that Germany's dual system is famous, and there is a need for concrete action. We should also perhaps have a debate on why industrialists, health schools and agriculture have regions. They've got a lot on their hands. Why aren't the industrialists under industry, agriculture and health care under the Ministry of Health? The resort would have much more motivation and time to implement such a project where we have a big problem that we do not have enough interested in these studies. And let's try to discuss it. Perhaps we could also consider higher education as to whether the structure is satisfactory. We are increasingly seeing each other trying to fill the free capacity of universities at all costs. We have so many college students, we have so many universities, of course private schools, which were created but in times of larger population years. So maybe let's try to have a debate in this direction. With regard to health care, we think that we may have worked more in the last six months than some have done in the entire term. We have introduced procedures that significantly contribute to the transparency and effectiveness of the resort. For the first time in history, all commissions and advisory bodies operating in the Ministry, including the Minister's advisor's list of names, are published on the Ministry's website. We are preparing historically the first transparent, publicly available clicking budget of the Ministry. We have taken a number of steps to make hospital management more transparent. Perhaps clear rules problematicly perceived back bonuses, which reach several billion crowns a year. We also refuse to tolerate non-discriminatory procurement. Therefore, we have set clear procedures and strict conditions for direct-controlled organisations if they purchase in so-called negotiated procedures without publication or apply an exception to random purchases, which will limit these purchasing methods to an absolute minimum and will be strictly monitored. Currently, there is also a pilot project of cancelled purchases at 15 state hospitals, where we expect savings in tens of millions. We support the central position of patients in all aspects of our health care, but without increasing their participation. That is also why we have made a key partner in discussing fundamental legislative changes from a patient council working with the Ministry. We have enforced the suspension of sanctions for not using eRecipes so that every doctor has a chance to get to know him sufficiently. At the same time, we have already prepared legislation for the development and other functions of the eRecipes system. We are working intensively on the preparation of an online drug record of a patient that will significantly increase the patient's safety because it will monitor the duplication of drugs and their undesirable interactions. In cooperation with insurance companies, we also prepare safe data sharing between health care providers. In a record short time, with the participation of insurance companies, professional companies and patient organizations, we have prepared a new regulation for medical devices. Their preparation was ordered by the Constitutional Court. We have heard the demands of the professional public and have significantly reduced the administrative burden of health professionals in the area of medical documentation management. For the first time in modern history, we have set such conditions that health insurance companies and care providers have agreed on the amount and method of payment of health care for next year. But we have a lot of other tasks ahead of us. We are completing the DRG Restart project, which is also discussed for a very long time, which we will gradually introduce into the payments so that, historically for the first time, the money really goes to the patient and to compensate for the unwarranted differences in basic rates of hospitals. We will be rewarding quality care and not historical flat-rate payments. We support the electronisation of health care, which will ease the administration of health professionals and increase patient safety. We aim to increase the availability of care in remote regions. We have therefore launched a subsidy programme for dentists in selected areas, we continue with subsidies for practitioners and we are preparing them for pharmacies as well. We define the roles of individual health actors and strengthen the responsibility of insurance companies for the provision and availability of paid services. We're preparing a new concept of primary care. We are working on a new law on health insurance and we are preparing a new law on public health insurance. [[11.30 hours]] Another priority is the resolution of a desperate personnel crisis in health care. Here too, we have already started some key changes in the increase in the number of medications. We are now focusing on finding system solutions, improving the working conditions of health workers and adapting their education system. We do not want to make changes in health care for one term. That is why we will consult all the essential steps with the opposition in an attempt to find the highest possible consensus. Of course, the important point of the programming declaration is to strengthen our security. I was talking about increasing defense expenses. We really want to increase them to at least 1.4 percent of GDP by 2021. This is of course important for the dignified and effective functioning of the Army of the Czech Republic. We want to increase the number of professional soldiers to 30,000. By supporting the voluntary military training programme, there should also be a required increase in active backups. Also modernize military technology with regard to current needs and development of security situation. It is necessary to accentuate the support of the domestic arms industry and to equip especially local products. All these steps will mainly involve Czech entities in supply and sub-contracting chains and the maximum possible transfer rate of technology, know-how and production to the Czech Republic. It is also important that the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence actively cooperate in our government. I believe there are great synergies. Within the framework of safety - there, of course, also includes a programme of self-sufficiency of food production. I think that everyone in the world has to take care of people, not just security, but also to have something to eat, even though it may seem absurd today. But we have to think in the long run, for decades, not just for one term. It is necessary to consider whether public institutions, schools and hospitals should not use food programmed primarily in the region where smaller regional producers operate. We also cannot tolerate whether it is sold in commercial chains of goods, especially food, at sub-cost prices, which is a major threat to domestic food producers. We need to protect the soil as the foundation of our wealth. I think we made a mistake letting strangers buy land. In Hungary and Poland, they did not allow it. But of course it's too late for that today. Perhaps we should consider creating a state reserve of land, one of the most fertile that we will never stop, so that our descendants can be sure that they have a place to grow food. Of course, we also want to look at the regulation of things that our citizens actually buy. Water is very important. Protection of water resources is our top priority in the field of the environment. We consider measures against drought and efforts to contain water in the countryside to be a matter of the highest public interest. Of course, this has an impact, for example. on the crust. We will ensure availability of water by building hundreds of new sources of drinking water for the population and its quality, e.g. supporting the construction of domestic sewage treatment plants. We're not gonna get wasted, but maybe with those waters, we should start wondering if we're gonna rebuild the dams. We inherited them, but thank God we have them. In the environment - we don't get wasted and we stop burying them in the ground. By the end of 2018, we will present a new modern waste law aimed at a substantial reduction in the volume of waste ending in landfills, waste prevention and better sorting and recycling. We will support the reduction of the energy performance of public and private buildings by heating mainly from the New Green Savings programme, which brings considerable energy savings to households and the state. And we won't let up on air protection. We will speed up the project of boiler subsidies in order to replace up to 100,000 of the oldest domestic solid fuel boilers by 2019. At the same time, we will be looking for additional funding for the continuation of this project. We are the sixth safest country, perhaps the seventh, but we are one of the safest, and each year, of course, the number of foreign tourists is growing. That's what I'm talking about. It is important that this part of our economy has great support. We really want to invest in unique monuments, renovate the Imperial Spa, Moravian Krumlov. Now we even found on the exit that the state belongs to Litomyšl Castle, even the 2002 Government resolution is forgot about it and did nothing about it. So it's quite a shame that the state is the owner of Litomyšl Castle, there are nicely renovated buildings around it and we should - for example, this is such a specific example - focus on it. A very good project is, for example, the Museum of Central European Art in Olomouc, where they have the ambition to make a la Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao. So these are all projects that are extremely important. From the point of view of the Justice Department, of course, there are several laws that are important, especially an insolvency amendment. The question is, do we need the business corporation novel? I'm sure that's what we're talking about. There's a problem with the APSTR system, it's an information system. The Knowledge Act, I'm sure there's gonna be a huge lobby. It is necessary to strengthen trust in justice, efficiency, savings, digitalisation within the resort. Of course, it is necessary to communicate mainly within the department. This program statement by the government, we've actually been working on it for a long time. I've been talking for a long time. I'm sorry about that. But I think it's important to people because we went into politics to do something for people. I believe that the new minority government will do its utmost for people, that we will fight for the efficiency of the state, that citizens will feel it in everyday life. Of course, I understand that the opposition will certainly be very critical today. I'd just like you to think about what I was talking about. I understand if I said Switzerland would be here tomorrow, you'd be protesting loudly. But maybe we could think about whether we could - and I had a feeling in foreign policy, and maybe in investment and in speeding up the construction law, in other things, digitalization - work together. That the position should be pragmatic not because it is suggested by someone who is our opponent. Our government, the former and the existing one, we judge the laws, the opposition's proposals, I mean pragmatically and with reason. It's not a priori all that we're against. I think we want to debate this. So it is important that we all really believe that our country has a completely different place within Europe and within the world, and we already had that place once. It was during the first republic that we were among the most productive countries in the world. I think our people have the potential, and we should do everything we can to get back there. And we're going back there one by one. We are indeed the best in Europe in several parameters. And our people's potential is enormous. So our country needs stability. He needs a stable government. [[11.40 hours]] I firmly believe that the government will be trusted today. And I just want to promise that we will do our utmost to make our country prosper so that our citizens have a better life. And I'm sure we'll discuss it with you. Let's not be arrogant. We want to work with the opposition. And we come forward with humility. So I want to ask you to trust our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u7	I thank the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mr Andrea Babiš, and I note that the government appointed by the President of the Republic on 27 June also informed the President of the Chamber of Deputies by letter of 27 June that he would request a vote of confidence. The Constitution of the Czech Republic prescribes to do so within 30 days of the appointment. The deadline is met. The Government's programming declaration was also delivered to you on 27 June as House Document 1070. It's on your desks. Following the opening words of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, I am launching a debate in which Jan Hamáček, Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs, is the first to report. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u8	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, honourable Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, nearly nine months have passed since the elections to the Chamber of Deputies. And I stand before you today, representatives of Czech citizens, and I ask you to give confidence to the government that has been developing these long months. It is a government that will put an end to instability in the Czech Republic, which has lasted too long and has not benefited citizens or politicians or our economy. The government is confidently something that our Constitution assumes, and its formation should be the goal of all the political parties that have succeeded in the elections and have sat in Parliament. Czech social democracy has not renounced its responsibility. We negotiated good terms for joining the government, and we left that decision to all our members. The party referendum on joining the government, which we used first, by the way, in the political history, supported the coalition government. Thanks to this, the Czech Republic will have a government whose programme contains a number of left-wing elements. And social democracy will see to it that these commitments are fulfilled. It is not just our key points that we have presented, such as the reimbursement of the first three days of sickness, the increase in parental allowance to CZK 300,000 or the backed-up maintenance. The point is that we all live well in our country, that the economic growth that we are experiencing should be shared by all people, that everyone benefit from the success of our republic, because it is primarily social injustice that brings instability, and that makes extremism and distrust in the state institution grow. There are still disproportionately large differences between regions and between cities and the countryside in our country. They are differences in living conditions, in services and in wages. It's unfair, and it threatens the cohesion of society. People in our country have the right to feel safe and content in the place they chose to live. And it is the task of the state to ensure that there is no better place for the rich and worse places for the poor in the Czech Republic. People must feel that the state is there for them, that it hasn't abandoned them, and if they need a doctor, a firefighter, or a police officer, they'll get the help. That is the objective of social democracy, not only in this government. It is the fulfilment of the right of all citizens to safety and satisfaction, which means good housing, decent work, affordable schools, good public services, good food, and last but not least time for their family. For social democracy, I can promise you all that we will follow this aim in government and work for all citizens regardless of their property or status, and therefore I would ask you to give this government confidence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u9	I thank the Minister of Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs, Vice-President of the Government, Jan Hamáček. We will continue with the debate, which includes 32 other people. The first speaker with priority rights is President Petr Fiala. A colleague Kalousek, Bělobrádek, then I, Okamura, Farský, Radim Fiala, Bartoš and Gazdík, will prepare. And then you have the others without prior rights on the list. [[Mr. Peter Fiala is ready at the microphone, but there's noise in the room.]] I will ask the House for peace, Mr President, that you have an environment worthy of your speech. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u10	Thank you, Mr President. The Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, has lost confidence today to ask the government, which has lasted for the longest time since the elections in the last almost 30 years, i.e. in the whole democratic period since 1989, because the first attempt to trust the monochrome government of the ANO movement, which came here to present President Zeman and Prime Minister Babiš in January, was, of course, only to be seen. They admitted it later, of course. It was a technical way to take power over the authorities, over the country without proper negotiations, without the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies, as the Constitution normally requires. Dear colleagues, however, when we look back at the whole process, the past more than eight months, and when we look at this government, the question is why it took so long. Today, the government of President Zeman and Prime Minister Babiš came to ask for their trust, which, even after eight months, came to me incomplete. Listen to what it sounds like: After eight months, she lost her trust in a government that doesn't have one of the most important ministers, and they only got the other one in a hurry yesterday, because they're still faking some limits, so they figured the Minister of Justice can't yet be the Prime Minister, who's also being criminally prosecuted. So we have an incomplete government here. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is something quite unprecedented. She came to ask for confidence from a government whose programming statement is universal and unreliable and basically similar to what they wrote for form after the election more than six months ago and what no one really cared about. I'll come back to that especially later. It is a government which, from the original political conditions of the complementary coalition party of the ČSSD, remained exactly the same from the original conditions that nothing offered the ANO movement to its potential partners eight months ago. It is a government where both the President and the Prime Minister have achieved all the power and politically essential things they wanted to achieve in fact many months ago. And it's a government created on the basis of an official agreement with the communists, who were prepared for this permanently within eight months, because all the essentials were actually cooked immediately after the election. So what was the good thing about pretending to be different for eight months, that it could be something completely different? I think there's basically two reasons. The first - eight months of the monochrome government of the ANO movement provided sufficient possibilities for personnel changes, which no one had to argue with, especially in resorts, which were then abandoned to their complementary partner. And second, I think the more serious reason was that there was a need to put the public to sleep. If President Zeman and Prime Minister Babiš had come with the government for the direct or indirect participation of the Communists right after the election, there would have been not thousands and tens of thousands in the squares, but perhaps more people, and it would have whistled not after eight months, but from day one. [[11.50 hours]] I want to point out at this point and at this point once again that this is a very serious moment, that the return of the Communist Party to power and influence in the Czech Republic, that not only the President and Prime Minister is responsible for this return, but that every Member who stands up and supports such a government will be responsible for this return. It's nothing personal. It's nothing personal. It's just a historical fact. This must be the case in this important constitutional event and in a year that is an important anniversary of our modern statehood. And what I'm saying is that anyone who calls the Communists to power today should bite his tongue when, in the anniversary of the foundation of our republic, he takes words such as freedom, democracy, dignity, prosperity, the future, or even the name of the founder of our Republic, Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk, into his mouth. Dear House, I believe there are some good reasons why the House should not give the government confidence, I would say, regardless of political orientation, but out of the utmost respect for every Democrat to the Constitution. I've already mentioned the first reason. There has been a government before us that is not complete, which does not have its proper foreign minister, or does not have a proper interior minister. You can choose what you think is better. That means he doesn't have a proper minister of one of the two major resorts. The most important resorts. It's an incredible delusion to start with. And it's disrespectful, too. Disrespect for responsibilities, constitutional functions, challenges, the Republic. All of them! From the president that he didn't insist on complete government. From the Prime Minister coming here to ask for trust in such an incomplete government. From the President of the House that he did not propose to postpone negotiations until the completion of the Government. And from everyone in this House who will vote for such an incomplete government. But even from everyone here in the hall or out there, who pretends that this is supposed to be the norm, that this is normal, that it's just some sort of irrelevant thing. It's not irrelevant! We're here to approve an incomplete government. That's something unparalleled! Second reason. The second reason is equally serious. Yesterday there was a sort of procedure, I would call it a scenic procedure - it looks because it was not in the government coalition itself, but only between the ANO and the KSČM movement and somewhere behind closed doors - in which these two parties concluded a power pact. A power pact that we don't really know anything about. Just please listen carefully! We absolutely do not know the political conditions under which communists support the government. And we probably never will. Of course they put something there formally on paper, but it's not relevant on paper! How far will too many communists and their nominees reach? Where everywhere and what will they influence? For example, will it also be in the security forces? And I'm not even talking about the fact that it's almost certainly the circumstances that were publicly scandalized a few years ago. But what I'm talking about is that these conditions are hidden, classified, and that we're talking about a side that has dangerous targets. That is why I believe that this government represents a political danger and a political unknown. And such a government should not be trusted by the House of the Democratic Republic. And the third reason? The third reason is personnel. It must be appreciated a piece of political and personal self-esteem that the government did not come here with the originally appointed Minister of Justice or with the Prime Minister as Minister of Justice. I say that without irony, without sarcasm. Although I consider it a serious failure of the Prime Minister's political management that he even wanted to try. But let me read you something. I will read to you what the current Prime Minister said in February 2014 as Minister of Finance on the same occasion as today, i.e. during negotiations on government trust. The Minister of Finance at the time, the Prime Minister was lecturing us here today. Quote: Because the basic assumptions for business are what? Transport infrastructure! We don't have a freeway network, awful! Fast trains? We don't! A hundred billion went into the corridor, and our trains run 40 to 70 on average. So where's the money? Debt goes up, no investment. End of quote by Andrej Babiš from 2014. The YES movement and, in particular, its chairman have built their political existence and strength on the criticisms of the past. And I think it's time for them to include themselves in that past. The last four years of last government, despite great economic growth, so past governments have created deficits, investments have not responded to economic growth, and highway networks have increased less than in times of the greatest crisis. Therefore, we should not agree with the government's continuity. Especially at the post of Minister of Transport. Dear House, it should not be merely a formality that, within the meaning of the Constitution, we are expressing or not expressing confidence to the Government on the basis of the Government's programming declaration. But with all the absurdities that accompany the emergence and the short existence of this government, it's actually the greatest anomaly that there hasn't actually been a discussion of any program in the last eight months. Have you realized this completely unique circumstance, please? The establishment of the government was not accompanied by the interest involved in the programme. No one in the current government has been able to formulate any vision, no reform, no ambition, nothing. Only two weeks ago, the Prime Minister overheard a passage of one of my speeches and said that he wanted the Czech Republic to be one of Europe's most successful countries. And he repeated it here today. But he forgot to write it in the government's programming statement. And its content doesn't match that ambition at all. It is a general text, vague in essential areas and, overall, it is an entirely insufficient document. I'm not gonna be here long to analyze this programming statement, but I'm gonna base my claim on two examples of his inadequacy. That is, two essential objectives - a balanced budget, a new tax law - were promised by the current Prime Minister four years ago, then as Minister of Finance. For example, the general nature of the programming declaration documents one of the declared priorities very well. Pension reform, which is formulated without any content frameworks. The government's programming statement resembles collection raw materials. It's supposed to please many, you'll find all sorts of things, but very little is useful. And it does not bring, mainly it does not bring any binding measurable impulse for the Czech Republic's journey between the richest and most advanced countries of Europe and the world. Ladies and gentlemen, we are ready to compete with this government for what path the Czech Republic can become one of the richest, safest and best countries for life. We believe that the semi-communist government and your journey will not lead us to this goal. And in this case, one single example for all of us is enough. Fighting bureaucracy. This is the topic, it is the order of Czech citizens, which we have brought into the political debate and which you are then trying to deal with. But in your programming statement, you promise to transfer bureaucratic procedures into digital form. And we say: Fighting bureaucracy does not mean doing the same thing today, only digitally, but that means substantially reducing the number of bureaucratic duties and procedures. And on this example, I can show it well. That's the difference between you and us. Your journey will lead us, among other things, to the maze of digital bureaucracy and total control over citizens at work and privacy. Our journey will lead the Czech Republic among the ten most pleasant and freest countries for life and business. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons The Civil Democratic Party will not give the government confidence. If the government gets confidence, the ODS will act as a major and tough opposition. We believe that three and a quarter years is a long time for the reign of Miloš Zeman, Andrej Babiš, Vojtěch Filip and Jan Hamáček. We will strive for a shorter term of government. And in that case, we will be ready to offer citizens a political, programme and power alternative. [[12.00 hours]] So once again for the Civil Democratic Party: the government can count on just dreaming will not be enough. Not only will we not vote for the government's trust, but we will, as opposition, be on guard, be uncompromising, confront you with a program and political alternative! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u11	I thank President Petr Fial for his speech and now President Miroslav Kalousek is with priority right, President Bělobrádek will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, before I say a few fundamental reasons why the TOP 09 cannot give the government confidence in this meeting, I will allow one personal question to be asked to each of you. In a normal personal life - would you trust a person who perjured herself to the health of her own children? I believe that if it were you, if it were your property, the lives of your loved ones, you would be very reluctant to believe such a person. Yet many of you today are ready to give him confidence in the administration of your own country, and I therefore ask you to reconsider. And now for the political reasons. We cannot give the government confidence, especially because it is a Communist government. For the first time since 1990, since the 1990 free elections, the Communist Party will have a direct impact on government policy. Perhaps, for formal reasons, one of you will argue that the Communist Party is not a government party, but I believe that its real real influence on the executive governance of the country will be greater than that of one-time social democracy. koneckonců all, just look at the handicap that Hamáček has - unlike his two coalition colleagues, he has no code name. I see in particular the risk that the Communist Party as a government party in cooperation with Prague Castle will be an immensely strong Fifth Putinův Column and will strengthen together in the Czech Republic the influence of the empire, which has occupied us for decades, never removed us from the map of the sphere of its interests and still has us on the menu. Every Member who stands up here and says for the proposal shall be responsible for this. And please let us be aware of that and make this very clear. Another reason why we cannot support the government is that it will be a government of permanent and completely unprecedented conflict of interest, particularly in the area of economic but also in the field of criminal law. The state prosecutes its citizens if they are suspected of a crime, the authorities of the executive. The police and prosecutors don't have independent decisions, only the courts do. Police and prosecutors are executive bodies and have impartial exercise of their powers. The competence of both the government and the Prime Minister towards the state prosecutor and the police is very strong and it is absurd to believe that we can expect an entirely impartial investigation into the prosecution of the Prime Minister, whose government, moreover, is likely to gain confidence. It's just always gonna be unbelievable. And you, Minister of Justice, should know that this fact significantly reduces the public's confidence in the impartial exercise of the authority of the prosecutor. It just cuts it down. Definitely not working out. This is a conflict of interest for which the government cannot be trusted. Another reason is that this government does not take the principles of the rule of law and the Constitution of the Czech Republic too seriously. You can only see that from the way it was made. For a number of weeks, the process went - I won't say unconstitutionally, probably not, but quite outside the Constitution and Constitutional Practices that you, colleagues, and Mr. President have been making a tearing calendar. Another absolutely outrageous example of how you take seriously the principles of the rule of law and law in this country and the obligations of this country is the question of the withholding tax on church restitution. The fact that there is absolutely cynical support for government parties here, not just communists, but all the government parties can't go through this proposal, although it doesn't prevent Prime Minister and President Faltýnek from saying in church circles "you don't have to worry, it's against the Constitution that you can't go through, you can just sleep, we just need those communists to support us" doesn't have the cynical courage to say that to church leaders, but that still doesn't mean that the government here should support unconstitutional legal standards, which they know very well for themselves are unconstitutional. So, for a relationship with the rule of law and its principles, TOP 09 cannot give this government confidence. The last crucial reason is the budgetary irresponsibleness of this government. Although we have had excellent economic growth for several years and I fear that it will not only be planned for next year, the government is planning a deficit for 2020-2020 as well, i.e. for the next three years. What does the government intend to do when the good times pass? Like, sometimes he has to cross over. Once again, not thinking about the future, that it is budgetaryly irresponsible, is a serious reason not to express confidence. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure many of my colleagues will comment on the various chapters of the programming statement. I'm not going to discuss it in detail. I agree with President Fiala's words that it is also very general for us to discuss it in detail. However, I would like to draw attention to one thing that is not in the programming declaration and which, unfortunately, can become a reality. And I would like to appeal to the government not to underestimate it, namely the risk of a possible future economic crisis. We could have noticed that three quarters of Czech exporters expect the Czech Republic to sink into economic recession within two years. The slowdown in the pace of industrial production can be enhanced by the consequences of the trade war, and then the enchanted chain - the trade crisis, the economic crisis, the financial crisis - will be launched. Of course, it's not a sure thing. I don't want to scare, and I hope it doesn't happen, but it's just a real risk. It is a real risk that the government must count on, because, unlike the Lehman crisis ten years ago, it has enough warning information to do so. Nevertheless, in the government's programming statement, we will not read a word about what measures to take and prepare for society to be more resilient to the effects of the crisis and to protect the most vulnerable, in particular, from its consequences. It's probably the same as when we know that sooner or later the flood will come, but we still do nothing in the weather and do no preparation for the flood. Whatever it is, it's usually too late when the water is pouring into your kitchen and in your bedroom. Perhaps it is in the current situation of a futile call, yet please try to be aware of this possible risk, so that the government takes the necessary measures. [[12.10 hours]] It is essential to fundamentally change the structure of the budget, reduce the number of mandatorial expenditures, and make the budget balance more resilient to possible revenue downturns. Not only vaguely talk about pension insurance reform, but actually implement it so that the pension system is sustainable in the long term without pressure to increase compulsory pension insurance. A health insurance reform must be carried out hand in hand with this. She, as well as pension reform, has to do with prolonging the human age. We will not stop the loss of qualified medical personnel if it is the medical staff who will bear the main weight of political cowardice for reform. We simply cannot maintain the excellent level of Czech health care and its availability in the long term without major systemic steps in health insurance if we are cowardly at reform steps. And that's what the most vulnerable will pay for. The economically strong always buy it somewhere, even across the border, the economically vulnerable just don't get it. They'll have it less accessible, or they'll have it worse. Tens of thousands of employees in an over-built state sphere, which costs tens of billions a year, not the sphere, which costs more, I think the useless tens of thousands costs tens of billions a year, must be released to a productive economy as quickly as possible. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs must be relieved of all unnecessary administrative burdens. Their ability to cope with changed market conditions is extraordinary and can, in the event of a crisis, be a rescue circle of the Czech economy, unless the state interferes with them and bullies them. The budget should be prepared as a balanced one this year. It should be a matter of course for the next two years. Nevertheless, due to structural changes, there should be enough resources to invest in excellent research and development as well as in digital and transport infrastructure. As I said before, we cannot express our confidence in the government because of what political entities it is composed of, and how seriously it takes the principles of the rule of law. However, if any of the steps I was talking about were to be implemented, it could count on our support and our professional capacities. These are steps that we consider necessary not only for the coming of the crisis, which sooner or later will come, but also for good economic times and long-term stability. However, it seems from the programming statement that the government is only going to focus on bribing voters, and it will have neither power nor competence for any structural change. It will, paradoxically, bribe those voters who, if unprepared, catch us, will take their best shot. Ladies and gentlemen, the TOP 09 will not speak to the government of confidence and is ready to be consistent, but also a constructive opposition if the government wants to take any of the steps that I have mentioned here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u13	Thank you to President Miroslav Kalousek. Pavel Bělobrádek, President of the KDU-ČSL, will now take the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u14	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens, the KDU-ČSL will not express confidence in this government for several reasons. But let me start by reminding myself of some things. KDU-ČSL promised voters before the elections that it would not be part of the government and would not support a government that would be untrustworthy both within the Czech Republic and internationally. This distrust is due to the fact that a member of the government is a person who is accused of a crime that the international authority has called a fraud. We believe that such a situation significantly damages the reputation of the Czech Republic, and I can clearly confirm this from my personal dealings with the European Union's leaders. KDU-ČSL will certainly not express its trust to a government that is backed up by the voices of the Communists. Of course, we respect the results of the elections. The ANO elections won, did not receive more than 50 percent and sought coalition partners. It is true that we have been prepared, and as one of the few parties, we have clearly declared this before the elections, and we have also been partially punished for this in the elections, possibly negotiating the government with the YES movement. The truth is that such an offer did not come and that the first condition was never met, which means that it will not be a government in which a criminally prosecuted or accused person will be prosecuted. Regardless of the staff, even if it was someone else's side, even if it were any other person, we believe that this is a matter that is fundamental and fundamental. And we definitely know what it means to compromise. KDU-ČSL is a party that tries to make consensus, but there are limits that simply cannot be crossed. And we will certainly not be in government at all costs, and we will certainly not support a government that does not meet these basic assumptions. It should also be noted that when this primary condition was not met, we went to the opposition, but we were ready to go into compromise options. Let me remind you that I personally suggested that there may be no need for the Prime Minister or other coalition parties in the possible government to have some reciprocity, although neither I nor any other parliamentary party chairmen or parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies are charged with criminal offences by law enforcement authorities. There's no suspicion, there's no scandal, it's reality. I am not saying that anyone is guilty, it really has to be decided by the law enforcement authorities, as a result of the courts, if this happens, and it is very important to realise that. Of course, we respect that. But in this case, it is always necessary to care that this is the overall structure, the overall image that gives it. The emergence of a minority monochrome government of Andrej Babiš was the decision of the President of the Republic, who simply wanted to get rid of the previous government, wanted to get rid of former Prime Minister Sobotka, and that is why we had a government here for so long, which was without trust, which had no support from the Chamber of Deputies and which, of course, was also paralyzed. I believe that this was a great loss for the Czech Republic, and these few months were indeed a wasted chance. I also want to declare that we clearly reject the things that happened during the reign of the serving and apparently the continuing Prime Minister. I do not want to downplay it with some strong words, but a certain creepy normalization, a certain creepy coup d'état here, because even questioning the individual principles on which this state is based, that is, constitutionality, that is, the rule of law, the government, which clearly takes care of the principles that set the field, has been crossed and violated - unfortunately, also by the highest constitutional agents. We need to realize that once the rules of the game stop being respected and we start playing football with baseball bats, it doesn't go well for the players or for the audience. I am convinced that it is not acceptable for them to be mocked here, downplayed and violated the elementary principles and elementary rules of the game. It is very sad that we will probably have a government that will be backed up by the voices of the Communists. It's reality, it's possible, the Constitution allows it. But there are other and unambiguous principles that are not in the Constitution. They're encoded in every person, in every element of him, in his conscience. Please consider whether we are really opening Pandořin's box and remember the words that communists share power only when they have to. I believe that the fact that we have this government here is also, from a certain point of view, the result of the European Union, because without it, it would be even worse. I believe that the YES movement would be able to rule with the support of the SPD. And only the pressure from the countries and representatives of the European Union - finally, after rejecting the first agreement with social democracy, the ANO movement returned to social democracy after this pressure, and, in fact, with the SPD, the coalition, or the government leaning on their votes, was abolished. So let's be happy for that. On the other hand, it's rain under the gutters. [[12.20 hours]] I am convinced that the government, which even by its own vote ignores constitutionality, is a government that is dangerous, which will eventually turn against citizens, because they will eventually be the ones to bear it. Because if the president wants someone who doesn't want someone who doesn't, if the Prime Minister calls on the nominator of the coalition party to act stately and not to block the emergence of the government from insisting on his office, and he doesn't do it himself, I think these are the clear signals that we need to take seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, KDU-ČSL will not break its promise to voters, it will not be in such a government, it will not support such a government and we will oppose the trust of the government of Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u15	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. First Vice-President Filip will now appear, and Vice-President Okamura will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, allow me to divide my speeches into three relatively simple parts. The first part is a question of rules. And basically, I'm lucky to be talking to the chairman of the KDU-ČSL because he was referring to the rules here. The fundamental constitutional rule in the Czech Republic, and not the traditional but written rule, is the Constitution of the Czech Republic. And it says in Article 5 that our political system is based on free and voluntary formation and free competition between political parties. On that basis, Article 9. It is clearly stated that the interpretation of legal standards does not justify the removal or threat of the foundations of the democratic state rules. And then there is a rule that, in my opinion, is important and that they do not want to recognise those who must have "democratic" in their name, whether it is the name of a political party or those who talk about democracy, but think of democracy as agreeing with their opinion. This is Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, where paragraph 4 states that citizens have access to elected and other public functions on equal terms. That's what I think is pretty crucial. If nine political parties entered this House in the parliamentary elections, then all nine political parties have the right to negotiate any form of political regime in this state, because it is the free competition of political parties. But some say that it is not possible for a political party to participate in that government. He's been saying it since 1990. And changing these rules is quite difficult because not everyone has the right to participate in this administration, because some of them simply reject it for narrow political party reasons and incriminate themselves with democracy, they curse themselves because it's not possible if it's not them to be someone else. It is their sacred right to say so, except that citizens will think of them when they realize the content of Article 21 (4) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which may apply to all citizens of the Czech Republic, not to mention the international pact or the European Convention on Human Rights. The second thing I would like to turn to is a question of programming. I have read a number of posts, and even today I have heard that there has been no talk of the program. I strongly disagree. Allow me to keep this view and not disprove President Fiala's view that it was not a programme. The program was very serious. It was about the need to change what was going on here. That we need to change the wild privatization that we need to change the corrupt nature of public procurement that was introduced here in the '90s. That we need to change what's been going on here in this state. And no one doubts that. On this basis, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia represented for a long time, and even in 2013 it became the strongest opposition political party. That the question of reviewing what was happening here in privatization was taken over by other political parties is only right. I'm not questioning it at all because it's really necessary. I remember the debate in 2010, 2011 in the government of Petr Nečas, in which so-called Public Affairs, which then fell apart into other political entities, and I remember the statement of the former Minister of Government of the 1990s and the well-known Prague attorney, who wrote me quite surprisingly an e-mail saying that when discussing the vote of confidence to the government of Petr Nečas, he had to give me credit for a number of things when I refused to trust such a government at the time, even though it had secured a vast majority by closing the coalition. These are the reasons that lead me to believe that not only I, but also Members of the KSČM Club can give confidence to the minority government of Andrej Babiš, Jan Hamáček, the ANO 2011 movement and social democracy, because this government is taking at least a step towards a change that is most necessary here and which was forced by voters in last year's elections. Yes, the negotiations took a very long time. But why did the YES movement win? Why other political actors have come here and why people are sick of talking about democracy while talking about having to agree to his opinion. Well, because the difference between this government and I'm not talking about the seven priorities KSČM has in that government statement. I think the Prime Minister's speech was long enough for you to realize that apart from the seven priorities, there are a number of things that KSČM may not agree to and will not support. But why is there a reason to support such a government? Well, because there's absolutely zero communication with the union and opposition, ignoring and ignoring opinions. It really isn't. This government has worked hard to discuss the program. And that some liked it or did not like it, that is the question of the sovereignty of individual political parties. The previous steps did not lead to the deterioration of the conditions of the inhabitants of the Czech Republic. Unlike the then government, and the crisis was over. It's not true what my colleague Kalousek said here that it was in a time of deep crisis. It was precisely the steps of the government after 2010, when the economy continued to be strangled. But this government doesn't do that. Not only does it valorize pensions, it is the growth of minimum wages, but at that time the government brought the Czech Republic into another deep crisis that lasted much longer than it did in neighbouring Germany or Austria. The standard of living is increasing, unlike the government we didn't trust back then. That's the difference. Here, those who were not discussing the formation of a coalition - and could, the ODS could certainly have been negotiating to form a majority coalition, because the number of Members after the elections would have given the majority with the ANO movement, but the ODS said at that time that it was a symbol of corruption. These are the words of the former Prime Minister and Chairman of the ODS Petr Nečas. And it really was. It was a government with the greatest number of corruption scandals, and no one was surprised, not even journalists wrote about it, as they were loyal to the then government. [[12.30 hours]] There was no mention of whether or not the union requirements were respected at the time! It wasn't a question of whether it was at that time or at that time. There were over a hundred thousand demonstrations here, but the government didn't respond. The kind of demonstration that would mean the opposition of citizens to the government taking away all their security isn't here. At the same time, demonstrations are called through nonprofit organizations that point out that someone here has an opinion other than those on the street. I am not questioning anyone's opinion, which they say in a peaceful demonstration, but I dare say that I too have the right to maintain my own opinion and my own course of action. It's about sovereignty, the integrity of one's own person. As far as the criticism presented by the President of the Republic is concerned, I agree with her that there is little investment. That's not what we agreed on. But on the other hand, when I compare it with the government I'm talking about here, and about my speech at the time about saying trust to the government of Petr Nečas, there really are some basic investments that lead to development, but they weren't there at all, and we were really falling apart. And we were sinking deep. Even household consumption was bound. There was no export support. Where could we have been? We really were very late. Not to mention how the government acted on health insurance, solidarity premiums, etc. That's what we had to remove. Those were the first steps that the government had to take here after 2014, and we have not yet removed all the things that these governments have done here. And it really was at the expense of most citizens of the Czech Republic, but rich bankers beyond the borders of this state were richer and exports of capital were not regulated by anything. It was a long time ago in the neighboring states. Even right-wing politicians in neighboring Germany, including Angela Merkelová, were already taxing banking operations. Typically, you say left-wing procedure. No, she suggested CDU. Why? Because we had to get out of the crisis. This is where the opposite was done! This government does not disturb or significantly restrict social benefits. They are not trying to enforce anti-population measures, such as the abolition of births, the reduction of parental allowance, the poorer availability of kindergarten schools. All this must have been removed here. The increase in both VAT rates was unbearable. Even if it's not enough, at least that's where this government has found some solutions, and I hope it will find somewhere else. We did not agree with the ANO movement or with the social democracy to change the tax system, and yet I insist that it will be needed one day, and maybe it will be during this parliamentary term too, in order to secure further revenue from the state budget. Denial of tax progression is not something that should be something that is unthinkable. When we look at countries like Japan, there is much higher tax progression than there is in many European countries, and this state does not have a left-wing government at all, but on the contrary, it distinguishes exactly how many people it has, what kind of entrepreneur it is, what category it is and how much it has to pay to run the state, because it uses it. And I could go on. I have to say that there are many more reasons for which KSČM will support the emergence of this government and will tolerate its existence, because this guarantees further economic growth in the Czech Republic, further growth in household consumption, gives the possibility for Czech exports to continue to be a permanent engine of the Czech economy. We are exporting countries, and if we want to get to the top ten, as the Prime Minister here said in his opening words, we really need to keep fighting for every market in the world, in all over 200 UN states. This is not a question of unilateral orientation to the EU. At the same time, we know that the EU market is crucial to us. But in order to prepare for the crisis, as Miroslav Kalousek mentioned here, for example, we must look for further perspectives in other countries that need to be found. And that is not by restricting our relations with neighbouring countries in Europe. This is about being prepared, if we want to have an equal position, if we want to have a good starting position for our exporters, then we have to deal with other states other than the EU. After all, anyone who thinks about their next steps and sees farther than tomorrow, so he diversifys his options, decomposes the possibilities so that he can use them. But that was not what the previous governments were doing, and this government not only promises it, but it has done so with practical steps, even if the previous government was in demise at the very beginning. We considered the basic priorities in the negotiations. The main priority was not only the growth of the minimum wage and its permanent programme in the four-year period, the permanent valorisation of pensions, but in particular the question of our natural resources and their use. I look - among other things, in the government in 2010, the one at the Ministry of the Environment who caused the lithium disaster in 2017. After all, the right of exploration was signed by Minister Drobil for the ODS, whom the ODS had to fire in six months. She probably knew why. And that's where the problem started, which bubbled up here in 2017. That's what happened. So let us remember this, so that we know what kind of change is taking place. This is the change that voters have raised with their votes, not that they have called back the political parties that have caused the crises here. That is why the KSČM has decided to negotiate with the election winner and to encourage the change that citizens want to make. Yes, someone says it's our move to power. Everyone has the right to participate in the administration of the state. If you want, I'll read you that article again. 4 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. And why should we not have the right to influence the operation of this state? If you think that's contrary to those principles, I assure you that's not the case. No one is taking away your right to participate in the administration of the state, and KSČM will not allow anyone to be prevented from doing so. We are a sovereign political party that has become a permanent part of the Czech political scene. We are proud of it because there are no corruption scandals behind us, there are no skeletons behind us in the closets of the privatization period, but we have had a clean slate of 28 years in the Czechoslovak and Czech society since its inception since February 1990, respectively. since November, when after long hesitation the Ministry of Interior of the then Czech and Slovak Federal Republic registered us. Everyone has a history. You have your own history, and everyone writes it down. So write it down as Democrats and respect that the citizens have voted and the KSČM, and our vote is as strong as yours. The difference is just how many political parties there are. And here I have to say yes, the YES movement has won, so it has the right to form a government, and we have the right to say whether or not we support the government. And we will support it because it promises the change that is needed for the Czech state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, too. Now I ask Vice-President Okamura and the next one will be prepared by President Farský. Then I've got five priors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I dare to get right to the point. The SPD will not support the formation of the coalition government YES, ČSSD and KSČM, as this disparate government blind man will continue to promote the same bad Brussels, foreign, economic, security, defence and social policy as the previous government of ČSSD and YES Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. The government's programming declaration contains elements that conflict with the long-term SPD programme. There is no clear vision of improving the lives of decent citizens. This government lacks visions of adding money to decent and proper citizens, how to increase security and justice. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is fully responsible for the emergence of such a troubled government and its ministers. ČSSD is a party that has long participated in cases that cost our taxpayers billions of crowns. For all of us, let's name the privatisation of OKD tunnelling Bakal. The ČSSD supports the principles of globalisation and multicultural integration in its programme. The current government coalition is from two thirds of the previous government coalition. The coalition that tricked the citizens when she put, for example, in her programming statement. the referendum law and subsequently blocked it from being adopted. The coalition that promised pension reform to give people really higher pensions, but it bailed. So we already know, after direct experience, that paper can take anything. But unfortunately, then the members of the government of the ČSSD and the ANO movement do rather or do not do what they want. In the coming months and years, much will depend on our attitude towards migrants in Europe. It is quite clear that countries like Italy, Spain, but also Germany simply cannot integrate existing migrants, let alone other hundreds of thousands on the way, and the pressure on our country to welcome unwelcome guests will be enormous. Social democracy is clearly pro-brussels and pro-migration in this. How can we trust people like Mr Poche who openly lobby for the admission of migrants to the Czech Republic and who are from the same ideological incubator as Bohuslav Sobotka or Dienstbier? Officially, ČSSD President Jan Hamáček is to direct foreign policy, who has even received three positions at once, so that the government can come into existence at all. He is also Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Interior and Minister of Foreign Affairs. Unfortunately, we cannot trust Jan Hamáček to manage the resort in the interests of the Czech Republic. It stands on a completely different shore. He is a member of the Board of Directors of the Czech Aspen Institute. It is an international non-governmental non-profit political organization founded in 1950 by American entrepreneur Walter Paepck as so-called. think-tank. The contributions of the family and corporate foundations of the world's largest billionaires such as Carnegie Corporation, The Rockefeller Brothers Fund and the Fordův Foundation are largely funded. Former National Security Advisor to President George Bush Condoleezza Riceová, former US Secretary of State in the Government of President Bill Clinton Madeleine Albrightová, who organized the war against Serbia, or former NATO Secretary General during the war against Serbia, Javier Solana, is on the Board of Directors. And as far as I know, Jan Hamáček was invited to the Aspen Institute shortly after he helped enforce the recognition of the Republic of Kosovo. The Czech branch of the Aspen Institute was financed by the famous tunneller Zdeněk Bakala. Giving a blank check to people who are controlled from outside and against their homeland is impossible for us in the SPD. I cannot even trust Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who is really in pliers, because he has a large proportion of companies in Germany and is living on European subsidies. We know that Brussels and Berlin can blackmail. And in this government constellation, the Prime Minister will sing a song based on notes that are written elsewhere than in our home. After all, we felt this from earlier negotiations on our participation in government constellation, where we were constantly argued by fear of Brussels and fear of the EU. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš doesn't act sour. And it is quite clear who will be in charge of our government. And it is logical that we cannot support the government run by Brussels. The SPD movement will be a constructive opposition and we will make positive proposals for decent people to have more money, justice and security. And for these proposals of ours, we will constantly seek support from other parties and we will be happy to work together on other good proposals. So if the government comes up with proposals that benefit our country and its citizens, we are ready to work together. We do not intend to negate everything that the government parties come up with and reciprocate to them how all the opposition's proposals have been negative during the last parliamentary term. The SPD is a positive party, with a good program for citizens. So we're not going to politicize and obstruct like other parties do. We will always act factually and constructively and work with our best efforts, and we will be happy to help solve the specific problems of citizens with a sense of humility that we are not here for ourselves, but for the citizens for whom we in the SPD are obliged to do the best work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u19	I, too, thank the Vice-President and now, please, Mr Benešík, with a point of fact. I'm sorry I missed you earlier. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u20	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to the speeches of political party chairmen, i.e. some who have already spoken, and only to President Filip. I think Pavel Bělobrádek never said that the Constitution forbids communists from taking part in power. He clearly said that KDU-ČSL will never support such a government on a principle that relies on such voices. That means it's a fundamental issue, and we don't want any constitutional rights to anyone and we'll never deny it. As far as the program is concerned, we have heard a large list of what those parties that support or sit in this government agree on. But one of the key areas to be guaranteed by the government is to ensure the security and defence of our citizens. And the way out of YES and ČSSD in this area is fundamentally broken down with the KSČM starting points. I think that in the most basic thing that the government is supposed to guarantee - ensuring the defence and security of our country and our citizens - it simply cannot work. And I'm really curious about how the government will guarantee this fundamental attribute of the state to our citizens. There was also lithium, and the blame was blamed on the minister at the time sometime in 2010, Drobil. I remember that meeting of the Chamber of Deputies the week before the election. But that's where the culprits sounded like different names. And today we found out that it was actually somebody's fault sometime in 2010. In 2017, before the elections, they were completely, but completely different people. It's obvious times are changing. But it's true, I've been here for the fifth year, I've been around as much as some people do. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u21	Thank you for keeping time. And now, please, Prime Minister Farský in the remaining minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we want to support the government. Our country finally deserves a dignified government with confidence. A government that will solve real internal problems and represent our country on the outside. We want to support such a government in the year of the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Czech Republic - Czechoslovakia -. We want to support a government that has as its main priority education, increasing education, which is a motorway for prosperity, which guarantees security, which guarantees freedom, which also guarantees wage growth, which is the first step in pension reform and which is a condition for a better life. [[12.50 hours]] It is no coincidence that after the first republic we like to refer to, so many Masarykův schools remained. We inherited schools, but now the government has to invest in people. It is not possible for teachers to be one of the worst-paid higher education professions. They must be paid much better. This will increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession. This will gradually increase the quality of teachers and increase the quality of education and quality of schools. And there's no need to come up with any complicated school reforms. We will not create high-quality educators, and if they are good educators, they will replace these reforms with their own work. We want a government that will support a significant supply of money to education. We want to support a government that will improve the road, rail and data communication infrastructure, which will finally move the buildings and the Czech Republic will cease to be a black hole in the middle of Europe. Even though traffic is sometimes unpleasant, for centuries, where there is communication, there is prosperity. We want to support a government that will reduce bureaucracy, which will promote a state that will serve, not interfere. A government that appreciates enterprising people who realize themselves and bring prosperity to the whole country in their implementation. A government that gives everyone a chance to succeed. A government that will introduce a state that will not be a draught, but a helper in an emergency. A government that won't just talk about digitalization. A government that uses the possibilities of electronization, which is able to increase gross domestic product by up to 2%, is by CZK 100 billion. We want to support a government that will build confidence in institutions, rules, justice. Because where there are quality institutions, where rules are respected and rules are respected, and vice versa, their violations, bending, are condemned, where justice is available, people in such a country are willing to build their business, their lives and realize themselves. In such lands, success is experienced by the finest, the most capable. And that is the country we want and the government that builds such a country. That's the government we want to support. We want to support a government that will also think of those who have failed, who have been in a situation that they cannot help themselves. Who are already deprived of the ability to succeed by where they were born, in which environment they grow up. We want to support a government that even thinks about such people. And not by giving them the imaginary fish, but a government that gives them a rod and teaches them how to fish. It does not bind a government whose hand does not bind, but which moves further. Thus, such a government, which has the first priority in promoting education, which supports the construction of a communication infrastructure that supports the reduction of bureaucracy, strong institutions, available justice and assistance to the needy, is what we want to support. But such a government does not come before us today with a request for trust. We will not find the promotion of education at all among the six main priorities. And when, as mayors and independent in this year's budget, we proposed to give 15,5 billion to teachers' salaries, so that on average they would reach at least all the promised 130 percent of the average salary, the YES movement voted against. As in the case of bailing out funding for the construction of schools. So there is no way to support this government in promoting education. For communication infrastructure, perhaps? I'm bohužel so. The pace of highway construction is pathetic, the construction of the expressway cannot be talked about, and subsidies to cover the Republic with high-speed internet will probably have to be returned. I'm sure the Line Buildings Act is a positive one. But it wasn't prepared by the government, it was prepared by the MPs. Communication is therefore not a strong point either. That the government at least facilitates business, reduces senseless administration? Unfortunately, there's nothing good to see here either. Electronic records of sales, hedging orders, liquidation fines, received tens of thousands of new civil servants. So what about support for strong institutions, rules, available justice? Not even here. Police, prosecutors, courts and the European Anti-Fraud Office are accused of working on a political order. The rules are bent, circled, or the obstacle simply canceled. Do you remember the provisions of the ANO Code, which a year ago stipulated that if someone was prosecuted, he would have to give up all political functions and leave the ANO movement? The rule was in the way, so it was cancelled, and today, one who could not have been a member of the movement or a MP a year ago is your only candidate for the Prime Minister. So, unfortunately, the government is also not doing what it would have in the interests of the Republic and its prosperity. Care of the needy. Here, the government deserves commendation, and frankly, for submitting an amendment to the insolvency law that would allow people to get out of the debt trap. It is a pity that the main carrier of this change is no longer in the government. A government that wants to bring long-term prosperity to our country simply has to build on education, infrastructure, debyrocratization, strong institutions and help the needy. Unfortunately, that is not what this government is doing. But if he changes his mind and works in these areas, he can count on our support, just as we will ask for the support of our proposals in these areas. Perhaps even more important than the programme and the programming statement is for the credibility of the government's personnel composition. And here, unfortunately, the look is even more pathetic. How can you ask us to trust this country to give confidence to a government headed by a criminally prosecuted politician led by a StB agent, a member of a criminal organization? A man who has shown many times in the past that he follows the rules as long as they are advantageous to him. Otherwise, he bends them, breaks them, or he just cancels them. Who could perjure himself against the health of his children. A man who has broken his word so many times is simply not trustworthy. Who, moreover, did not hesitate to bring 30 years after the Velvet Revolution into the government of communists and extremists. And he didn't have to. But it was personally beneficial for him, so he just did it. That the whole country is doing this to humiliate its coworkers? He doesn't care. Like so many times in the past, this time he has shown that he is prepared to sacrifice anything and anyone for his personal gain. We would like to support the government and give it confidence. But this government does not bring prosperity to our country, it does not solve real problems. Moreover, it has trampled on the values on which this company has been standing for the last 30 years. It's a government of the past and a government of a dead end. That's why he's not gonna get our trust.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u23	I thank you, and given that we have two minutes left until the end of the debate, I will allow myself to announce a lunch break prematurely. We'll meet back here at 2:30, and we'll continue with the priority rights that I have here at this point. I would remind you that at 13.05 he will be meeting with the Organizing Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 14.30 p.m. and we are continuing our negotiations. We are in a debate concerning the request of the Government of the Czech Republic to express confidence. The President of Radim Fiala is next with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u25	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly express myself here for the SPD's parliamentary club. The SPD will not support the government that has taken the vote on trust today. The opinion of our club will be expressed by voting against the proposal for trust. Our movement has long said that it will not support the government with the participation of the Czech Social Democratic Party and will not support a government that clearly does not declare its willingness to support the Act on a general referendum, including the possibility of people voting on such things as membership of the European Union or NATO. Unfortunately, this condition is not met by this coalition, which is a genuine three-wheel movement of YES, ČSSD and KSČM. The government stands before the House in an unprecedented manner in a completely unclear personnel composition. If I were to lighten the situation, I would say that we understand personnel confusion and improvisation when one member of the government will be running the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. After all, foreign policy of the Czech Republic is done in Berlin and Brussels, so we do not really need any foreign minister. And not just foreign policy. I can draw on today's speech by the President of the People's Party, Mr Bělobrádek, who said that, on the basis of the pressure of Brussels, Mr Babiš has resigned from drawing up the government with the SPD. So not only foreign policy, but also who will be in government in the Czech Republic, this is probably decided somewhere else. Chess around the cast of the Ministry of Justice can also be understood. In a country where a political party is returning to government, for example, politically responsible for the OKD case, which ignores court decisions and does not pay debts, the Ministry of Justice is actually useless for such a party. It is typical that the former lithium minister is also returning to our high office as Deputy Minister. Enough lightening. I have been in the Chamber of Deputies for a long time, but I have never seen such circumstances as those surrounding the establishment of this government. Our parliamentary club will be the opposition to this government. We will be an opposition that honors constitutional customs, and we will be an opposition that supports things that will be in line with our programme or are based on the current needs of our country. There is no doubt that this government will break up with us in principle in the field of foreign policy, as it will be a government fully listening to Berlin and Brussels. The government before us will continue to destroy the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, and although it will assure us that it is fighting immigration and defending the interests of the Czech Republic, the opposite will be true. I deeply disagree with the Prime Minister that we need economic immigrants. We need to support Czech families so that Czech children are born here, who will work and do business for themselves and for this country. This is the only chance for our future prosperity and for the future of this state. We are also very concerned that this government will not use a favourable economic situation to stop the state's deficit management and its spending will grow faster than income. The increase in financial transfers for so-called non-profit organisations continues. After all, it's ten percent year-on-year. It is quite clear that this government will continue to question the natural values of neo-Marxist organizations under pressure and support the dictatorship of so-called oppressed minorities. Today, people are demonstrating against the Communist Party's participation in the government. Frankly, and I'll speak for myself, I'm not too afraid of old comrades, but I'm afraid of the new ones who are based in Brussels. Today there is a statement in the media by one of the representatives of the Communist Party, and the statement is so telling about the position of the Communist Party in Czech politics that it is necessary to mention it. It reads: "When Babiš stops handing out change, we will stop supporting his government. " Our colleagues from the Communist Party are probably instructed by the crisis development of real socialism, and they seem to know very well Margaret Thatcherová's statement that socialism ends when foreign money runs out. I would like to remind you that Mr. Babiš will not spend his money because the state has no money, but he will spend his tax money on the vast majority of people who work honestly and do business fairly. Our movement does not believe that this government will be able to make public administration more efficient and effectively reduce the cost of government. This government will also spend on debt so that governance with social democrats and communists will last as long as possible. The Czech Republic will have to address fundamental social, economic and security problems. Unfortunately, the government that arises in this way and on this ground plan will not be able to do that. He will concentrate fully on one thing - to rule as long as possible, regardless of the interests of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u26	Thank you. The President of Bartoš will also perform with priority rights. Following him with priority rights, President Gazdík. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Government, colleagues, I have taken this right of priority, and I would like to say, first, the position and reasons of the Pirate Club, why it will not fundamentally support this government, Mr Babiš, ČSSD, with the support of the KSČM, and at the same time comment on some of the issues raised here by the Prime Minister, which are also contained in the book that lies in our benches. It is the government program that we should follow in the following period, when this government will rule in the Czech Republic if it gains confidence. As I have already said, and it is not surprising, the pirát will not support this emerging government with their 22 votes, for a simple reason. We are one of the few parties, and I dare say, as a single party, long before the election, we published our comprehensive strategy on how the pirát will operate after the election, regardless of the outcome of the election, whether they will have little or much. We've covered all the possibilities that could happen, including the fact that the pirát could participate in the government or design their ministers. We also went into negotiations with this immediately after the election. Anyway, we have been told that these conditions cannot be met. And those terms were not strictly tied to the person prosecuted by the Prime Minister. Of course, these conditions were personnel, and here and from the President, it was said that these personnel issues were not important. [[14.40 hours]] Personal questions at ministerial posts are important. Therefore, one of our conditions was that people who have a corrupt past who are not competent or who are not trustworthy will not participate in the government. If we look at the composition of the cabinet where even one minister is missing, I will leave to you as Members, but also to the citizens, to assess why we cannot support this government. Our second condition was that in such a government, because we saw the strength of the YES, as at that moment the weaker coalition partner, would not have had an YES majority. YES, it won the election. We have acknowledged this victory. Of course, the possibility that the YES movement in this government as the winner of the elections did not have the majority, was not realistic, this condition was not met. And, of course, they will not be in that government, or will not be supported by parties with a historical legacy of the liquidation of democracy in the Czech Republic. We've got one of those sides here. We've learned they don't have historical corruption. Yes, by this time, the Communists in the Czech Republic have not really participated in big things since the 1980s, so they do not have the obvious scratches that the previous governments had, but they have far different scratches. And we also have parties who mess with the democracy in their name. We have seen how the Chamber of Deputies established, when Prime Minister Babiš and his movement dealt with the KSČM and the SPD on the occupation of posts in the House, and the approval of important laws was based on cooperation with the KSČM and the SPD. Even the day Prime Minister Babiš here introduced us to his new government, including the missing minister and the minister, so-called. The 13-day minister, so immediately in the next vote against the votes of social democracy, the KSČM coalition, SPD, YES, the voting coalition, once again worked, to be exact. We cannot support such a government through staffing and failure to meet these conditions. So we defined after the elections when YES ended the negotiations with the fact that the conditions are unrealistic, that Mr Babiš would be Prime Minister, and we defined ourselves as constructive opposition. I think that in that six months here in the House, we have shown that the partiality that is often played here, and the role of trucosis that we see here, is not owned by the pirát. The constructive opposition simply follows, proposing its own bills with which it comes. They try to support good things, no matter who proposes them. We have entered the referendum negotiations. We have discussed the necessary legislation with the Ministry of Finance, and within the committees and cooperation here in the House we cooperate across the political spectrum. Although some club presidents try to tell people on TV that we're here in isolation, that we're not being reasonable. Of course, the constructive opposition is not afraid to oppose something unfair. And not only here in plenary, but also in public space and in the media. This is our role, which if the government gains confidence today, we will stand up for in the House. Its advantages and disadvantages will be assessed by voters in the following elections to the Chamber of Deputies, but also in the partial elections to the Communities or to the European Parliament. And I believe that he will assess it very, very realisticly. We will not support this government as such. Part two of my show. That is where I would like to address the government's programming statement and the performance of Prime Minister Babiš. We have already seen one of the government's programming statements in this parliamentary term. Even the government has submitted some laws that should have been in line with this programming statement. Nevertheless, YES, KSČM, but even the members of the SPD voted against this statement. Prime Minister Babiš - who talks to me here, which disturbs me a little - declared in the negotiations on these laws what he is a major fighter against corruption. However, proven anti-corruption legislation, which would just address the problematic personnel occupation of the cooperating Communist Party here, has swept it off the table. We don't have a nomination law at the moment. It was legislation against the accumulation of rewards, and thus the accumulation of functions, which was also involved by former Minister Malá and former Minister Válková of the ANO movement. This one was labeled a legislative scumbag. The fact is that the Deputy Director of Metnar may have been involved in it and, on the contrary, he said that this legislation is okay. When we look at what else has been said here, or when we remember what has been said here by Prime Minister Babiš, we have heard a lot, and we have heard much that could have been done during the last government, where he was with social democracy, his current partner. And I would like to ask if there has been any fundamental qualitative change, whether social democracy has been such a drag in the previous government. Because the questions of digitization under the Ministry of Finance, the questions of digitalisation under the Ministry of Justice, but also the construction of motorways under the leadership of Minister Tiok, who sits in this new government, were all resorts that controlled the ANO movement, especially in the matter of the flow of finance, the Prime Minister of Finance, now - sorry, now Prime Minister Babiš. So I'm very skeptical about fulfilling this government statement. And especially those visions that sounded here could have started and been fulfilled during the previous, at least in the ministries that the ANO movement had in its sense. Here was a great accent on digitization. That's the theme of the pirát. It's not our only topic. It's a matter of importance. It is a topic in which we, the Czech Republic, and the region have been lagging behind for ten years, and not only against Western Europe, but also the countries that are eastward. Estonia is always cited as an example. Digitization is a thing that, of course, doesn't do itself. It's a thing that's inter-ministerial. If we want to digitize the state administration, all ministries must cooperate. In the earlier setting of the functioning of the government, but also in the present, if there is no significant change, and I believe that the person of the government agent can bring it if he has the support of individual ministries, but the digitalisation could take place within the various ministries that have budgets for it, they know their processes. This didn't happen. I am even a little skeptical of how to go through those laws where everything needs to be digitized, because it was not so long ago, this House voted on legislation that would allow you to receive 60 days prior notification if you failed technical inspection on your car, simply that a message will come to your data box. ČSSD and YES voted against this simple idea that whoever has a data box, which is at least all entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic by law, could receive a notification that they will have completed technical services in 60 days. So it's just a little thing that's digitalization and how two sides are building up to be asking for our trust at the moment. Yes, there is a need for infrastructure in the Czech Republic, to repair motorways, to build new motorways, to build a circuit, to repair roads II. and III. Class. I have read carefully the SAO report, which will always assess how money is used for various projects. After all, former Minister of Finance Mr Kalousek received two such reports for his two projects, very loss-making. So we take this seriously, the SAO report, and it turns out that in fact, Minister Ťok - in his time, about 17 km of highways per year was built on average. So I wonder what kind of qualitative boom and quantitative boom could occur now that Mr. Ťok - and now maybe someone will fix me - was the transport minister in this position for the longest time, building those 17 km of highways, although the resort had under it. And the funds he saved, he just didn't invest in the construction. [[14.50 hours]] For me, it is a very important topic - which is not really in these priorities, but I have heard that priority is security, priority is migration, priority is digitization, priority is infrastructure, so I hope that all those priorities have the same weight. I totally miss my education there. We're in the 21st century. It's not the information society we live in anymore, but it's an educational society. Data on all our activities, the state has. They both have companies. But we can't draw knowledge out of that data, the thing that's coming through education right now. Practical use of knowledge from the data collected not only by citizens of the state but also by companies that may be involved in the supply of public contracts. And education in itself, which is conditional on investing in education, especially in the salaries of teachers, because these people just don't go, if they don't have good pay conditions, so they just can't teach, they prefer to go to the commercial sector. They choose a different profession. Just raising the salaries of teachers, making this the most attractive craft in the information society, this mission is the alpha of an omega in order to make it possible to choose high-quality educators at all. Unfortunately, and I found it in the government's programming statement, there is still talk of education as a crutch, as some kind of pre-revision to apply to the labour market. I'm 38. I hope... I can probably call myself a boy at 38, but I don't think I've worked in the business since I was 18. I noticed that the labour market is changing very quickly. And if people don't have the knowledge to literally survive in that 21st century, which, among other things, has to do with how to defend themselves against misinformation, how to survive a hybrid war, the industry is changing so quickly that what people are starting to study today will not be applicable within five or ten years. I think we've been learning that... I was in elementary school under communism, that education is a preparation for a future profession. It's not like that! Direct connection, yes. Let's drop it, let's let the companies go, maybe encourage schools to open interesting courses for application. However, the link between industry and education as an alpha omega of that... There was even an idea here: let's move vocational schools to individual ministries, such as industry and trade, all agricultural ones can be under the Ministry of Agriculture. Indeed, education in the 21st century is in itself a value. This will allow you the freedom of choice to make an informed decision not only in politics but in the labour market. It's the only way that if we have a well-educated society, there'll be higher pensions in the finals. We cannot compete either with the East, or with countries that are the size of China, in some kind of means of production, or even with some robotic change in industry to 4.0. Indeed, if the Czech Republic is rich in something, they are brains. Education itself is a value. These four areas, plus others, especially in the field of social policy and housing, because housing is one of the basic needs for one to develop, pursue one's family, pursue education and have good work, it is absolutely essential and the issue of housing policy of the Czech Republic is one of the hottest, which needs to be dealt with urgently by cooperation between the ministries of labour and social affairs and the Ministry of Regional Development. We will watch these topics very much. These are priority topics for the Czech Republic. And I'll just repeat that our role will be constructive opposition. We are happy to help prepare good laws as well as critics, because the critic who offers alternative solutions is positive in the process of developing legislation. Not the annoying aspect of someone holding you back at work, and then you can't work out how it sounds. The Pirate Party will therefore not express its support for this government. Twenty-two Members and Members of the pirát will vote against the trust of this government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now with priority rights, President Gazdík, followed by President Bartošek. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u29	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. We meet before one of the very serious decisions that this House will make in this parliamentary term, and this is the confidence of the government of the Czech Republic. Although I realize that the Czech Republic has been experiencing the longest period of instability since the elections, as it has experienced so far in its political history, I will try to justify why the starosta and independents and I personally cannot support this government. As starosta tend to do, the reasons are material. They're double, they're personnel and programming. From our point of view, it's actually the government of Miloš Zeman. However, we do not have a half-president system, but unfortunately the Prime Minister has no desire to push towards Miloš Zeman, and that is why part of the government was created by scheming, created by various backstage agreements with the Castle, and that is one of the reasons why. Since we are parliamentary democracies, we cannot support this government. There is a shift of parliamentary democracy to some parody on the half-president system, and that is something I cannot agree with as an MP who promised to vote in accordance with his best knowledge and conscience. I don't want to repeat what my colleagues have done, but I will try to sum it up in a nutshell. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister invited the Communist Government to participate in the year of the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Czechoslovak Republic. They want to abolish sanctions against Russia, with which they want to trade more and also to focus more on it, even though Russia violates international law in an unprecedented way, e.g. Anexi to Crimea. I am also concerned about this government. Unfortunately, the coalition partners will no longer agree on the Foreign Minister today, and before voting on the government's trust, we have a new Minister of Justice and there is a risk that the Minister of Justice himself will be prosecuted by the Prime Minister. And why it didn't happen, the Prime Minister said it was because of "crap opposition bullshit," here I quote. I apologize to the Honorable House. I don't think the demand that the Minister of Justice not be a criminally prosecuted person is unusual, and there is no way to call it, sorry, quote, "fucking opposition bullshit." What bothers me programically. In its programming statement, the government promises things that, in my opinion, it cannot and cannot deliver. And I'm afraid even individual ministers know that. There are promises of hundreds of kilometers of highways, but unfortunately there aren't even purchased land on these highways yet. There are promises of higher pensions and higher salaries on all sides, but we do not know today whether the time of the economic crisis or, at least, the economic recession is beginning, when it will be worse and worse here. Even the President made it very clear in his speech that he didn't know where, and I didn't find it in the government's programming statement where the government would take it. Try to imagine that in the coming months, the whole world will be terrified by customs and trade war, that there will be an economic crisis and the Czech economy will fall by four or five percent, which will result in some 200 billion on the state's tax revenue side. The government's programming statement does not indicate what the government will do in such a case. The government is already in conflict with promises and deeds. On his billboards, the Prime Minister tickles the teacher's chin and promises them a salary of CZK 45,000 a month within four years, as well as the government's programming statement. The reality is that this year when the government adds to teachers, for example, to my Zlín Region, it meant that 50 crowns would come to teachers and one month. That's a little far from reality. I'll continue my education. I'm sorry that in the government's programming statement, and it has been said here since my colleague Bartoš that education is on some 14th page. For the future prosperity of the Czech Republic, I consider the reform of education and education as a basis at all. But not just to criticize. I must say that in the field of education and in the government's programming statement, there are things that we starosta and government agree on. It is a clear definition of the problem that concerns education, such as the underfunded regions that I found in the government's programming statement, such as the huge bureaucracy that troubles teachers and school directors. It is very good that the government in the programming declaration recalled that the time for a catastrophic lack of teachers is near. About half of the teachers will retire in the next ten years. And even if everyone who is studying teaching schools today has entered education, as if they are about 30% of them, we will not be able to provide vocational training for certain subjects. [[15.00 hours]] In addition, the government mentions a small link between school and practice in the programme statement. I also consider this to be a key problem, and with all these things, we Mayors are willing to help the government. We are able to support the government in the event of specific proposals, because it is a good direction. On the contrary, there are some other things missing from the government's programming declaration in the field of education, and I would like to call on both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education to start working on them so that we can find agreement here, together with the opposition, on at least a long-term concept. Czech education needs a long-term concept and the average Minister of Education has remained in office for 21 months since the revolution. This contradicts any long-term concept. I believe it's better with this government. As the President of the Pirates also remembered, what is essential in Czech education is the concept; that students, graduates of schools, need to be able to learn new things, because no one today is able to say exactly what they will do in ten, 20 years in connection with Industry 4.0 and in connection with the development of digital technologies. I thank the Prime Minister for sitting well enough to see himself. It's better than breathing on my back. [[Prime Minister Babiš is sitting in front of the bench.]] The government's programming statement is also limited to higher education, which also lacks a long-term concept, and which I believe this government will begin. That we are finally setting up a longer-term concept, because today universities are largely funded from European funds or from projects that can end over time, and therefore higher education will get into huge problems. Long-term grants are also a problem in higher education. I know disciplines where some higher education institutions and some university professors are unable to be funding by multiannual funding are unable to achieve grants that will ensure stability in their research for the next few years. As an example, I would mention prestigious Czech Egyptology. Czech Egyptology, which is a prestigious Czech science recognized not only internationally but even worldly, fights for a few tens of millions of crowns each year. And thanks to the contribution from the Ministry of Finance, the Prime Minister or the Ministry of Education, it's been able to finance it every year. However, it has no long-term system so far. To conclude, fortunately, our democracy, despite the fact that this government will be supported by communists, does not just matter to the Chamber of Deputies. It also depends on the Senate, but mainly on the thousands of representatives, councillors, deputy mayors and mayors who manage this country well every day. And for us, the starosta and the Independents, I want to say that we will be a constructive opposition to this government, and we will be prepared to support the government where it will go in the right direction at the lower and other levels and criticize it as a good opposition where it will go in the wrong direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u30	President Bartošek will now speak with priority rights, and President Kováčik will prepare himself. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u31	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic is before us today, representing the government and coming to ask for the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. This act has been unique since 1990, because for the first time, it comes from someone who needs the votes of communists to trust the government. In fact, it's a good thing we're in this situation today, because it's important to realize that we've probably started taking some things too naturally. Freedom, democracy, the foreign policy direction of our country, our association with the European Union, our membership of NATO, freedom of speech and many other things that we see as obvious and common today. For the first time in modern history, the Prime Minister comes up with the idea of trusting a government that is not complete. There is an orbit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of the Interior, and before that, the Minister of Justice was also proposed to the Government, when a number of experts and lawyers made it clear that she copied in her work so that she would be replaced by another rabbit from the hat. Also, for the first time in modern history, a prime minister who is being prosecuted comes before the Chamber of Deputies. What we are witnessing is a confusion of values. Things that were previously unthinkable, things that would never have come to mind before, become reality. It is not possible to deny the previous 28 years and resigned to say that truth and decency do not prevail, but lie and hate. In the past, such a person would not have even become Prime Minister because the President would not have named him. And a decent Prime Minister wouldn't have the courage to suggest to his government the kind he's copying. And that's what's becoming the norm today. At the moment when values disappear from politics as respect for the law and the Constitution, when the submission of arguments always becomes a campaign and does not debate, the country is no longer being corrected honestly, but you find yourself in a world of hand and contempt. Is that what we really want? Is that what you really want? After all, we don't sell sausages in the Chamber of Deputies, but we're supposed to give a model of respect for justice, decency and stability as legislators. Responsibility for society has always been based on the value anchoring of institutions, authorities, politicians and churches. And some of these authorities suddenly come in front of the public and say - everything is possible, the rules don't apply. The difference between what's true and what's false is lost. It is as if words such as honor, honesty and responsibility have completely disappeared from the dictionary of the political scene in the Czech Republic and, on the contrary, words such as loyalty, the ability to bow down and many other expressions worthy of the dictionary of normalization. This government will rely on the voices of the Communists. The world around us is evolving and moving forward, but in our country, we are going back forward by consolidating old order. After almost 30 years, the Communists in this country have once again begun dictating conditions. On the other hand, no wonder, because the Prime Minister of this country is a former communist and has the same political blood group as these comrades. His concept of power is that he doesn't want to share power with anyone, as does the Communists. I believe that if it had been for Prime Minister Babiš, he would have done a coalition with the Communists and with the SPD without social democracy. But he wouldn't get away with it abroad, because it's not really tolerated in the world to make a pact with the xenophobic party. That is why the ANO movement had to take a partner to work as a fig leaf so that the government in the Czech Republic could at least look democratic. At the same time, the government will be leaning on the voices of the Communists. On the other hand, the Communists have actually succeeded in a hussarian piece. Although with the worst result since 1990 and with a huge fall in preferences, they dictate the conditions for establishing a government. Oh, paneček. But the Communists, and remember this well, dear members of the YES movement, are a partner who clearly says that he does not want the Czech Republic to be part of NATO, and also says that he does not want us to be in the European Union. That, dear members of the YES movement, is the true face of your hidden coalition partner. The leadership of the ANO movement chose KSČM as a partner to gain confidence in the Chamber of Deputies, which is the ideological successor of the KSČ. This side has had the 1950s of the 20th century full of terror, when we actually moved and lived in a wild land. A party that invited troops of "friendly" armies to the Czech Republic to occupy us for another 20 years. The party, which caused two strong waves of emigration of Czech intelligence, bullied and copulated the people of this country and destroyed their fates. She never apologized for it and never distanced herself from her actions. [[15.10 hours]] This government will be created thanks to the support of communists and the voices of communists. Dear Members of Parliament for the YES movement, even if you think it is not so a thousand times, do not succumb to such deception. It's a lie! I believe that for many of you, dear members and members of the ANO movement, your fathers or perhaps your grandfathers, are among those whom the Communists have taken property that they have persecuted and some may have imprisoned. When you raise your hand for this government, go to them, look them in the eye and tell them: Yes, the Communist party that has hurt you, I am now in the coalition and I have actively voted for this coalition with the Communists. Explain it to them and look them in the eye and maybe they'll tell you what their personal experience with the Communists is. This government will address two fundamental issues in the future. First, the completion of the nuclear power plant, whether Dukovany or Temelín, but surely this government will handle it gracefully. Second, freedom of public media. Indeed, the leadership of the ANO movement interferes in full implementation, in quotation marks in full implementation, and the Communists and the SPD are happy to support it. And if the public media are dominated, we return before 1989, when it was clear to everyone that the party and its boss would be reported always and only positively, and all that bad is always the opposition's fault. For the people I can say that we will do everything we can to keep the media in the Czech Republic, and especially the public ones, free. It is good to realize that in the Chamber of Deputies there is a force which, in cooperation with the SPD, although today's SPD rhetoric does not suggest this, but do not be deceived, the alliance still exists, a force which has a constitutional majority in the Chamber of Deputies, and there is the possibility of changing key constitutional laws. All the more important is the importance of the Senate and its active role in the protection of democracy. On behalf of the people, I can tell you that we will do everything we can to ensure that the Senate remains a guarantee of democracy in the future, that it works and that it is not abolished or starved, as it sometimes sounds from the President or the Prime Minister. It is also good to realize that this government is already in advance and that it will not respect the legal order of the Czech Republic. This concerns taxation of church compensation for unissued property. Primarily, it's heading against the Catholic Church, and everyone likes it. But it's good to realize that it's also attacking, for example. the property of the Jewish community. This property was first taken by fascists, then by communists, and now next in line is the ANO movement with communists and the ČSSD. Do you really want to stand in this line? It is important to remember that this government will be exposed to difficult questions that may be difficult to find answers, such as who our partners are. On the one hand, it is not possible to act as a friend of Izrael and at the same time support Iran's nuclear program. It is not possible to play this game because the only result of this government's behavior will be that this behavior will not make new friends and we will lose the old. And social democracy plays a very special role in this story. In fact, I feel sorry for this party with more than a hundred years of history. The negotiations on this government and the accession to it for social democracy have been and are undignified. During the negotiations, she resigned from all the key points she wanted to push through, and compared to them, the issue of some implementation of the programme is quite negligible. The main points that social democracy had at the beginning and from which it receded are that it will not be a criminally prosecuted prime minister at the head of the government, that Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies will not be Vice-President Tomio Okamura as president of the xenophobic party whose secretary said that homosexuals, gypsies and žid belong to the gas, it now saves the police that Mr Rozner is talking about a non-existent pseudo-concentration in Lety, and then a two-letter letter to Prime Minister Babiš to the president, where he proposes to him the Foreign Minister Poche to send him a letter where he says: and I don't really care, Mr President, choose whomever you want. I'm just wondering if that's how partners treat each other. If this is a show of mutual respect for the coalition's beginning. I personally see this as a resignation of social democracy to my own pride and future. The origin of this government had more solutions. Pragmatic, which happens now, and values that you have rejected. The second solution meant that the Prime Minister would not be prosecuted at the head of this country. The leadership of the ANO movement makes it clear that it will go into coalition with hell only to have a criminally prosecuted prime minister. Thanks to this, our country becomes illegible for our neighbors and partners, and this government, if it gains confidence, will deepen this situation. What we have been building since the revolution has had many mistakes, but I can say that I will always promote parliamentary democracy with all the weaknesses it has in it. I don't want a Russian or a Chinese or a Turkish model of power here. On the contrary, let us go through this complex and challenging process of finding truth, meaningful solutions, including complex discussions that often accompany it. I really don't want to be surrounded by the one and only truth that will be served to me. I've been there before, and thank you, I don't want to. For the above reasons, I cannot support this government because it does not bring stability and credibility, both at home and towards our foreign partners. This government will need the votes of the Communists, and I personally have strong concerns about the further development of our freedom and democracy and the further direction of our country. The Czech Republic deserves a better government than the one before us today, because we can do more than shame on the government. The KDU-ČSL Club will vote against the trust of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u32	Thank you. President Kováčik will speak with priority, followed by Mr Grebeníček in the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear government, colleagues, it was extremely difficult for the KSČM club to decide and decide how, in this difficult situation, which met him after the coup, after the coup, for the first time, to act so that Communist Members and MEPs, but also representatives, regional, municipal, urban, but also party officials, but also supporters of the Communist Party could look people in the eye. On the one hand, we're blamed that we're dating an oligarch. That's where they report. [[The Prime Minister sits in a desk in the middle of the hall waving to the speaker.]] We're blamed. No, Babiš, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On the other hand, and the voice is much stronger, the people we meet tell us: It's been a long time since the barren debate has been going on, and it's been even longer since the governments that have been here have been able to find a shortcut to what the Čech, Moravians and Silesians have been leading the Communists for 40 years. Now I mean to the abyss. Some of you may have thought otherwise, but I'm a well-behaved young man. That's the second position. [[15.20 hours]] Third position. There is some pressure that we have been de facto promoting the programme for 30 years, and so far we have not been able to do much of it de facto, and I think we have managed to push enough, given the constant total opposition position so far, which we have demonstrated in recent years when we were in government coalitions at regional levels. Not to mention coalitions at municipal and urban levels, we've been there ever since, basically, a coup. And I think that people are always voting for us there because they may think we're the ones who are good at defending their interests despite opposition positions, and that we should finally go show that we can also push through the important program things. Members and Members of the KSČM Club have actually made very difficult decisions, because all these pressures that go from the bottom, we will not put pressure on them from the top, convinced them that they should rather stay away. However, the decision has been made. And believe me, that decision was one of the hardest we've had to make in the last 28 years. So why are we going and going from the beginning after the elections to build up the House and start to work and then negotiate on how it is to be built, thus building the government's responsibility, how to try to push at least some of these programming issues? So why are we, as communists, finally going into this with the agreement to allow for the emergence and tolerate the existence of this government? Well, because we think that it is necessary to honor parliamentary democracy and defend it from those who think that everything that is not their own is undemocratic. So in quotation marks many think, here from the discussion it is obvious, and out there in the squares it is very loud to hear: if it is not our way, it is not democratic. So we think that the mandates we have received from the voters are exactly the same, the rights that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, as political clubs here in this Chamber of Deputies, and then we have the parliamentary parties, are exactly the same, and therefore that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia should seize the opportunity. And here with my colleague Bartošek accidentally, but I still have to agree. Yes, from the weakest result we have managed to create a lot of good things, I want to say, we made a whip out of a turd. But that's what they people have been doing for years. With a low, small number of Members in government responsibility, indeed, there were various important posts everywhere, filling the area of government quite rigorously. So I don't know what we're being blamed for right now and right now. We're not going to power. That's what we'd ask for government posts. After all, compared to the previous KDU-ČSL results, we would probably deserve this more, because after all, the less than 8 percent is better than a little over five. That's what I think it is and it is. We want to, and that's why we're going after long conjecture to finally begin to rule here for the benefit of those who elected us here, the voters, the people. Generally speaking, all power belongs to the people. So let's fill it up by starting to work for the people and not just arguing about whether the government will be communist, semi-communist, more communist, or even non-communist. That's irrelevant. I even think this government can't even be communist. She's not even too left-wing. There are a number of very right-wing elements, for example, in the tax area. That's why we don't go straight into that government either. That would betray our program and our voters. But we're going to do it so that those promises that are out there, and they're with everyone, and they're materialized in the government's programming statement, so that they can finally move from their mouths to their hands. Call it, for example, that we want to be a watchdog. We want and we are going to do this so that teachers, health professionals and other undervalued professions also come to their own and not just hear constant promises. After all, the promise of an average teacher's salary of 40,000 in 2020 or shortly after the 20th is quite strong. That's what we want to keep an eye on. To ensure that pensions make minimum wages, so that fair benefits grow as they should, and do not open scissors between the incomes of the rest of the population, pensioners, people who are long-term ill. After all, so that what the first three days of sick leave, which was our flagship, might also get to their needs. So that health care continues to be quality and even better and does not have to be paid more and more. So that care is not especially for the poor and especially for the rich. So that all these things aren't just a promise, but they become reality. So that church restitution and their solutions do not depend only on the veto of the people's people, but that they really wake up, what and how it really is and was behind it. On this occasion, I will allow myself a small input on how Mr Bartošek spoke here that we are the ideological successor of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia. He must know because KDU-ČSL are with everything more separated by the verbally ideological successor of the pre-November member of the National Front of Bohemia and Slovaks (?), Czechoslovak People's Party. But not only. They are also the ideal successor to the White Mountain Recatholization. And there was also a huge mass exodus of the best Czech spirits, including Jan Amos Komenský. So even the church property and what we're trying to fix now is the result of the violent White Mountain recatholization. Let's at least try to set up some, I'd say, a more reasonable line here in this direction. After all, the law was passed by a narrow majority. And I think that any law that some part of society thinks is unfair can be revised. So let's go to the revision, at least the one with the Constitution of conformal Parts, that means without retroactivity with what else can be saved. I am convinced that, even if this is a huge problem for the communists, it can also be a big problem for our future, let's say that we simply have to try precisely because of what I am saying here, to try to help this government arise and very closely guard it with the tolerance of people, towards the nation, if you want to, towards individual social, age, professional and other political groups, perhaps. It's not about the Communists taking power. Absolutely not. At the beginning of my speech, I said that we are a party that wants to honor and also watch, guard parliamentary democracy. That's why we communists go ahead. I am telling the Chamber of Deputies that the KSČM club will support the emergence and, following the agreement on tolerance, it will also tolerate this government, but not passively and not bitterly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u34	Thank you. We've finished the contributions of those who have been logged in with priority rights. Now, in turn, as Members of Parliament and Members have been enrolled in the debate. Mr Grebeníček, Mr Jurečka, will now appear after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been several years since the former Prime Minister and the current President of the Czech Republic Miloš Zeman said quite seriously: I feel that in the future the parties will not be divided into left-wing and right-wing parties, but to those who are able and willing to listen to the arguments of their opinion opponents, and to the parties promoted and closed in the idea of their uniqueness and exceptionality. At the time, I responded to his words by saying that I would like to see the Czech political spectrum cease to be divided into those defending the interests of people of average and lower incomes, and those promoting tuition payments or basic health care payments. I also said that I would like to see how the political parties that lobby for the interests of entrepreneurs propose improvements in the wage and working conditions of workers. I have also witnessed the social democratic government, which, under pressure from its member base and the electorate here and there, applied to the left, fulfilling essentially the right-wing agenda. Many times I felt that politics was just an awkward purposeful ideology, unfortunately mostly based on demagogy, arrogance, ambition and power. This was all the more intensely perceived by anyone who looked to our unhappy circumstances with reason and not with a limited political perspective. Of course, the House's personnel composition with the elections in October 2017 largely changed. However, I do not feel that it is now heading towards effective action. But I don't see the cause of the inexperience of the newcomers. Many of them are quite quick to learn and try to deal honestly with their responsibilities, with what they promised the voters. The functioning and performance of the House from the beginning threatens something else. For conflicting performances and for certain paralysis of the House, the responsibility is rather old known, somewhat sloppy companies. Overly ambitious figures from ODS, TOP 09 and some people too cannot compare to the electoral victory YES. For their strictly obstructive to vindictive quarrels, too much time is lost at the House's meeting in frogmy tugs and smashing empty straw. Dialogue and factual discussions are now being considered by the newly formed government and its intentions, as reflected in the programming declaration, replaced again by the post-Zorean monologues of the deaf and sometimes extremely narcissistic self-deception, in which the elected officials use richly, or even abuse the so-called rights. a priority word. The disdain that they and their league partners can no longer be seen by them, and so they talk about the formation of the Bolshevik government, the fate of which is said to be decided by the central committee of Czech and Moravian communists or Putinův's Russia after almost 30 years. All of this was activated even by the former Prime Minister and President of the Czech Republic Václav Klaus, who suspended himself over the current situation in the Civil Democratic Party which he founded. He then called her childish stupid her electoral motto "Bolshevik government, Prague is not a herd!". The ANO movement Václav Klaus called it an ideal formless mass. Therefore, the decisive factor is who will be his partner. "It would be a hundred times better if it were pushed to the right, thus pushing the ODS in the government rather than being pushed extremely to the left," said Václav Klaus. That the government of YES and ČSSD will depend on the tolerance of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia does not consider President Klaus to be the end of the world. He added: "I am appalled that this will happen, but we have far greater threats. " The words of Klausův are also worth mentioning: "To us the threat of the Soviet Union was. Russia is no threat. And that fraction of our populist politicians, who are childishly fighting Russia, should perhaps think about themselves." And Andrej Babiš? Even the communist tolerance explained as a known necessity. They say that this is the result of the fact that the right-wing parties did not want to negotiate with them. However, many suggest that our two allegedly left-wing parties will participate in the same project for the first time in nearly 30 years. Social democracy has entered the government with the Babišův movement YES and the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia will tolerate such a government. But we have no good reason to rejoice. After all, at a time when fundamental changes in ownership structure, foreign influence in the Czech Republic and our integration into military and other groups were decided, it was called. The left is perfectly paralyzed. None of this changed the fact that social democracy at the time had around 30% of electoral votes and the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia had almost 20 percent. Social democracy has conquered its divine resolution so that it can use that power to influence the really important decisions that it will not deal with the communists. It is now said that the divine resolution is no longer necessary, as it is not necessary to defend two very thin, left-wing parties in support of the billionaire's efforts to manage the state as a private company. The great handicap for the government is undoubtedly the prosecution of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. I may not like it, but the voters have attributed victory to the Yes movement election. They didn't consider it a handicap. Andrej Babiš himself points to his time as a criminally prosecuted, detained and later liberated European Commissioner Věra Jourová. Yes, formally, under the applicable Constitution and the relevant laws, until the court's statement of guilt, even a person suspected of subsidy fraud, regardless of sympathy and antipathy, is considered to be faultless. Whether it was a cunning abuse of the subsidy system on the edge of the law or a criminal offence, the court can decide! And the supporters of Andrej Babiš can now reasonably rely mainly on the fact that until the final decision of the court in the current Czech Republic, the prosecution itself has ceased to be a measure of anything. Unfortunately, the Institute of Criminal Notifications and Criminal Prosecution is a common subject of media games, political calculations, intrigue and coercive campaigns. When it comes to moral sermons and the credibility of different illustrators and self-judges, I consider it merely a repulsive political folklore. And so the time we live in, and the regime we have here is just a poor caricature of democracy and the rule of law. Even criminal prosecutions, let alone wronged accusations to agents, are no measure of anyone's integrity today, or criminal liability. After all, we have been able to observe the liberation of those accused or prosecuted countless times. Of course, the media present it all too often unilaterally. These are apparently the political interests of the parties and interest groups for which Miloš Zeman at the Castle and Andrej Babiš at the head of the government means threatening their ambitions, losing or failing their policies. I find it symbolic that the inability to accept someone else's victory leads to the pose of preachers of morality and political figures associated with the dark period of their governments. And it is those who have dragged the Czech Republic into the mud of corruption and clientelism, whether directly or indirectly, that have made Miloš Zeman and Andrej Babiš an acceptable electoral alternative in the eyes of many voters. [[15.40 hours]] At the moment when we decide to support, tolerance or not to support this government, we cannot ignore the government's proposed programme and experience with all previous governments cannot be ignored. Simply put, each party and each Member must answer the question of who and whether, in the current composition of the House, they can offer a different solution for citizens. I therefore consider the answer to the question of what this government can bring to citizens and the Republic if it actually fulfils the programme it is presenting. In this context, I also have to consider responsibly what other alternatives could bring to citizens and the Czech state. With this in mind, I have to assess the circumstances of the emergence of a new government, in all the critical reservations that I have about it, its individual members and its programme. The current situation is certainly somewhat out of the question of what we have been used to up to now and what this Chamber of Deputies has encountered in the past. The ideological extremely high right-wing coalitions and then the trade coalition of the Czech Social Democratic Party with the right-wing party were formed alternately here. The result was an incredibly corrupt style of governance, often ruthless to most citizens. Many of these governments, unlike the current governments, represented with the support of most of the media. Their premieres were presented as exclusions of integrity and civic virtues. They meant how the media and advertising assured us, very sincerely, they presented with learned phrases about humility, they acted as purest to purest. That is also why last October's elections won very significantly the YES party-motion, i.e. the business project of the former electorate of the Civil Democratic Party. It is no secret that the ANO movement primarily vacuumed not only the electoral base but also a number of party figures of the Civil Democratic Party and the TOP 09 in its initial rise. If we are witnessing the attacks of these parties on Andrej Babiš, then all I have to do is think of it as a disheartened cry over my own spilled milk. So the current Prime Minister created his political project. It has been successful so far mainly because the classic sides of the right have been completely discredited. In the October 2017 elections, however, voters disillusioned by the policy of traditional parties gave a significant defeat to the parties who claim to the left, whether it be the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia or the Social Democrats of Sobotka. All the shouting and haunting of left-wing government is therefore just an embarrassing farce of the disdained who created Andrej Babiš and his party, given how it came to be and what the ANO movement represents. Once again, however, the winners of the elections were those who promised many voters. It is now a question of whether, unlike the former bailed out governments, they will fulfill their promises to citizens better and to manage the Czech state more responsibly than those who have already fatally compromised themselves and who have failed completely. No, I am not willing, and I cannot take seriously the reservations of the disdained parties of the right that the prime minister will become a criminally prosecuted prime minister. In fact, when the right voted impunity for Ex-minister Kočárník, it was to be 4 billion. And in the case of People's Minister Vlasta Parkanová and the purchase of aircraft that the military didn't want, it was also billions. In this scandalous privatisation, as has already been said here today, OKD, the Ostrava-Carvin mines and their apartments, were also billions. And the interim result? I hear none of the responsible papalists are responsible for the tunnel. In the past, I have repeatedly pointed out the inconclusiveness of emerging governments, that their policies will not benefit the Republic and citizens. It was often clear from the programming statements of those governments. Today, according to the submitted programme statement, it should not be a traditional conspiracy of the Czech right with godparents and clients against citizens and the Czech state. The management and governance of the programme statement, as I have become acquainted with it, should benefit citizens and the state. Of course, we are in a situation where either the government will create an election winner with confidence supported or tolerated by other entities, or the Republic will move towards a crisis and gradually to early elections or to further throwing money out of taxpayers' pockets. I'm convinced it's another government lineup, maybe. early elections would only make sense if they could benefit the Republic and the citizens. It would only make sense if a government coalition could be set up that offers better citizens a more favourable government program than that government. At this point, however, I do not see any such alternative. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u36	Mrs Němcová will respond with a factual point. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u37	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, I think it is very good and it is positive that Mr Grebeníček stood up to the defense of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, precisely the way he did it. You can see yours to yours. That's true, and that's true. And if we were to listen to everything here with that honey-colored voice about what has happened in the past, the democratic past since 1989, what horrors have been happening in the Czech Republic, it is always best that everyone starts on their own. And I would advise Mr Grebeníčk to not know who Alois Grebeníček is older in the face of these horrors for those who do not remember it, or maybe they don't want to remember it when they forgot who Karel Sýs is, so maybe they don't know who Alois Grebeníček is, so maybe he could tell us about what happened when his father tortured and tortured prisoners in Hungary, political prisoners who had a different view of what society should look like in 1950 and beyond. Perhaps it would be accurate to clarify not only those of us who know, but you who do not know, and the public who wonders what support the government of Andrej Babiš is based on, what practices both approve and what we can expect!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. Mr Grebeníček will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u39	It's not the first time I've heard Mrs. Němcová come forward. She doesn't surprise anything. It's over and over again, he's talking his way. Yes, it's called anticommunism. He seems very, very primitive to me. As for the complaint against one of my family members, it's a shame you weren't here when the former South Moravian governor here presented his own experience to everyone, and you'd be surprised. He made it clear that he never hurt anyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u40	Thank you. Mrs Němcová will respond with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. I want to confirm that yes, I always say the same thing when it comes to the history of our country, the real time of darkness, the 40 years between 1948 and 1989. I said, I say, and I'll say the same thing. It was a totalitarian, perverse time, a regime that is legally named criminal, by the law of a democratic state that was adopted by the democratic parliament after 1989. This regime is classified by law as criminal. And the fact that you report to him and relativize all the horrors that have happened to families, you call it primitive anti-communism, so I would like to ask whether the ruined lives, the exiled people, the torture and torment of the heroes of World War II, the airmen of the RAF, if all of this is an expression of primitive anti-communism, just like the destruction of historical monuments, just like the destruction of libraries and their fork disposal, just like the killing and closing of priests and nuns, just like the destruction of historic centers of cities just to create communist monuments that would overshadow the true historical architecture, just to make the nation's memory go away! If this is what you consider primitive anti-communism to be, then I think it is the duty of democratic politics to never forget these things and to constantly stand on the side of those who have been persecuted by you, killed and constantly reminding that nothing like this must ever come back!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u42	Thank you. Mr Žáček, after whom Mr Grebeníček, will respond with factual comments. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about the past today. We don't remember the '90s. I, as a memorial who worked at the Office of Documentation and Crime Investigation of Communism, was a coworker of investigators investigating Alois Grebeníček. For your information, for some obscure historical reasons, the Uherský Hradiště Regional Headquarters and the prison there witnessed one of the biggest crimes in the 1950s. Among other things, it worked as an instrument of torture of political prisoners and arrested from this region by an electric chair created by state security specialists. From the very materials of the State Security officers themselves, the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Interior, which was established before 1968, it appeared that the chair jumped a meter high in these arrests. So this is a matter to be mentioned at Uherský Hradiště. Mr Alois Grebeníček has passed worldly justice, unfortunately the trial with him has not been brought to an end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u44	Thank you. Mr Grebeníček wants to respond with a factual point. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. Guys, there are different people in the House, including medical capacities, and they can solve serious problems such as cancer. Imagine if I just subpoenaed these doctors and claimed that I might cure the patient. I'd be ridiculous and embarrassing. I will read with great seriousness the historical work of Karel Kaplan, who describes the 1950s, but I don't take Mr. Žáček seriously, who, for example, to show the heroism of a resistance, spoke of the assassination of Gottwald. There's nothing like that in the spring base. You can't make it up. And as far as the remark is concerned, it is to Mrs. Němcová. She's not a trained historian. He doesn't have the readings. Basically, she got in a situation like I got in if I was whispering to doctors in their trade. I want nothing more than to return to the government's programming statement, to continue the debate of how they are all logged in so that we can get into a situation where we are free to decide whether or not to give confidence to the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u46	Thank you. With factual remarks, they are in the following order: Mr Blaha, Mr Výborný, Mrs Němcová. Mr Blaha has the floor. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize once again for diverting attention from what we are heading for, that is, from voting on the government's trust. Uherské Hradiště and Uherské Hradiště prison were appointed here, so it is my duty to respond. I, of course, have been dealing with this issue for a long time because the state of this monument is very unhappy, but I often encounter people who have been abused, imprisoned in those places, listening to their authentic testimony about all the horrors that have been going on behind those walls, and I have a little different information. Mr Grebeníček, who was appointed here, was, of course, very active in the prison. I am not here to describe all the practices that have been practiced there, but I would like to ask Mr Grebeníček, since his, as he said, family member - which amazes me with this address, I call my father Daddy - did not really have anything to do with why the day before the trial, which was prepared in the Hungarian hospital, he took his father to the reverse and cleaned up. I am interested, because this question has never been answered to me, and I think it is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u48	Thank you. I merely remind you that other Members need to be addressed through the President. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Výborný, Mrs Němcová will speak after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u49	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Your way to Mr Grebeníčk. I graduated from history, so now I can speak here as a historian. And what you're saying here is how you relativize the totalitarian past after 1948 is absolutely outrageous. It's just that the communists' efforts are always the same. She won't be any different. There's always gonna be a tendency to downplay events. By the way, there were communists among the victims! You might as well know that! Just like there were people among them, Social Democrats and others. I find it completely inappropriate in the context of today's negotiations here to talk about the fact that nothing really happened and that knowledge, sources and literature say otherwise. It's not true. So, please, we will not deceive the House or the public here. Just look at the files of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. All you have to do is look at the literature, it's been said here before me. It's not true, of course the Communists have full responsibility for the events and the victims of the 1948 trials that took place here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u50	Thank you. Mrs Němcová and subsequently, with a factual remark, Mr Kováčik. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u51	Thank you again for the floor. I wanted to remind all my colleagues that, in the form of factual remarks, we do not depart from the subject. If we are talking about who they were or who the Communists are, then the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, today the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, this is related to today's request of the government to express confidence, because they have written an agreement in a secret document that will hold the government of Andrej Babiš, so they are part of this coalition. And we're supposed to know who's gonna decide the fates of the people in this country with. First of all. [[16.00 hours]] And secondly, I believe that there was no big difference between the communists at the time, I mean the communists before 1989, and they didn't happen today, because if it had occurred, it would have been difficult to see that in 2014, if I was not mistaken, Communists would have organized an exhibition of North Korea's achievements in their headquarters, because they thought so, and then their Vice-President Šimůnek also announced that it was a country from which it could be taken an example of how to lead society, and certainly it would not have been possible for others to be Vojtěch Filip, Chairman of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, in 2015, when Vasil Biľak died, and enjoyed it would have reopened the theme of the invitation letter of the 1960's, i.e. the letter of invitation, on the basis of which our country was occupied by the armies of the Warsaw Pact, and Vojtěch Filip relativized the invitation, that there were actually different opinions on him, etc. So the communists today have one thing in common with the last ones. They do not want to live in democracy, it is a difficult system for them, and they still see their role model in the Soviet Union and in the country where totalitarianism reigns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u52	Thank you. Mr Kováčik and his factual point. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u53	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, do you know why yesterday, by a large majority, we did not support efforts to exclude the remaining points from the 16th meeting? This was especially because the number of meetings is the content of the agenda point to lighten, evaluate, talk about a closer history than is mentioned here, and this is about privatization problems, I will gently say it, under the rule of the ODS, KDU-ČSL and ODA. I think it's gonna get to the program soon so we don't just talk about past history. Otherwise, I think, and for me personally, there are different constitutions for mastering the history of a highly untrustworthy institution, I would not refer to them, but it is your right to have an opinion completely opposite. I just want to call on us to move from the past to today and tomorrow. Today is that we have a different task here than to master each other from history, a task which, after eight months of arguing, we are to finally give this country a functioning government. Let me ask you to get back to the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u54	I thank President Kováčik and Mr Grebeníček, with a factual remark, is reporting. Otherwise, have a good afternoon. So, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. And Mr Jurečka will be prepared in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u55	I just want to respond to Mr Blaha's call, which wanted to answer a very specific question. I just don't want to delay the meeting, so I personally dedicate the book I wrote to him at the next meeting, which came out in 2009 at Otto's publishing house, and that's where he's gonna read everything. There he finds all these questions and answers, and quite seriously, on the basis of a really thorough study. Yes, I wrote the book in particular so that some unsubstantiated and unverified things would not be torn down. So I'll really give you the book. Everything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u56	Thank you for the time being and now Mr Marian Jurečka has the floor and Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. Good afternoon, my dear colleagues, my dear government, Mr. absent Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Vice Prime Minister. As I look at the Chamber of Deputies, Mr President, I, if I may, am making a procedural motion to interrupt the negotiations of this meeting until there is a government here asking for trust.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u58	So we have a procedural proposal here, so we will vote on it immediately. I shall therefore call the Members to the Chamber. Please, you have the floor. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u59	I have a nice modification, i.e. an amendment to the procedural proposal, to interrupt for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u60	I think we still have to vote in order, so we're gonna vote on the motion to interrupt first... Ambassador, repeat that to me one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u61	I have put forward a motion to adjourn the negotiations until the entire government is present asking for confidence in this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u62	So I'm gonna repeat one more time what we're gonna... Ambassador?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u63	I would like to take advantage of my preferential right to draw attention to the fact that, in the past, the Chamber of Deputies has approved a resolution setting out that all members of the Government will attend the opening meeting The Chamber of Deputies until the approval of its programme and the whole discussion of the agenda item, which is a request from the Czech Government for a vote of confidence. So it's from 1996, so it's kind of an older provision, but it's still valid. In the beginning, at the first meeting of this House, we approved it, so I do not think that we need to vote on the proposal here, because this resolution is valid, and that is how it is done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In that case, I would have to interrupt the meeting, so now the question is whether the entire government is here, so I would have to interrupt the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for about five minutes. Ambassador, I will interrupt the House of Deputies meeting for five minutes to give room for the entire government to arrive, and in the meantime, we will also consult the legislative union if the entire government is not here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to resume the meeting, which is a request of the Government of the Czech Republic for a vote of confidence. I would just like to point out that there is no misunderstanding that, on the basis of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, it is stipulated that all members of the Government will attend the opening meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until the approval of its agenda and the whole discussion of the agenda item, which is the request of the Government of the Czech Republic to express confidence. So I would like to ask that the members of the Government follow this resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. We'll keep talking. [[A silence.]] Since there are still no government members, such as the Secretary of Defense, I am declaring a break for the next 10 minutes. [[After a while, he goes on.]] At the same time, I would like to ask the members of the Government to ensure that we can continue the negotiations, so I would ask you to ensure, and I quote, the presence of really all the members of the Government to take part in the discussion of the Czech Government's request for a vote of confidence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I will only visually check that all members of the government are present. Perhaps so, on the right hand side they are not seated. So I hope the Minister of Culture is here somewhere, I don't see him, but... Is the Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk here? He was just here. Yes, he's already entered the O.R. Therefore, in accordance with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, I am ending the break when we have interrupted all members of the Government to return to the hall and I will start the general debate again. So Mr. Marian Jurečka has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u67	Good afternoon, one more time. Mr President, my dear fellow Members, it is a pity that noise microphones do not take what the Prime Minister has to say right now, because these would be interesting words for the public, but I will not reproduce it any further. However, I have a few questions in my contribution in this discussion to the Prime Minister, to Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, or to Mr. President of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip, and I would like them to be here to respond to my questions, if necessary, in technical response. We are gathered here to a point that has the word trust in its name, the expression of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic trust by the Government of the Czech Republic. I would like to ask the three people mentioned earlier, through Mr President, what they imagine under the word trust. It sounded here several times in today's speeches. Because it is very important for what I expect from the Chamber of Deputies. Under the word trust, I imagine a person close to me or a friend who I can trust, who is readable, predictable, who stands up for his opinions, does not change them depending on how advantageous or disadvantageous it is. [[There's constant noise in the room.]] And how can I trust a government represented by two coalition political parties supported by the KSČM, when for example the current Prime Minister... Mr President, I would like to ask if there could be peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u68	Yes, I'd be happy to oblige. I ask the Members for peace because they really do not hear what the Member wants to say to the Government. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u69	When the current Prime Minister Babiš is able to change his views so quickly on key issues. Let me give you some examples. In 2013, before the election of the President of the Republic, the then president of the ANO movement Andrej Babiš said that he supported Karel Schwarzenberg because Zeman is the greatest evil for him and the continuation of the Klausian mafia and corruption. Five years later, the same person says he supports Miloš Zeman because he considers him one of the most important personalities since the revolution, which does not steal, lives not from politics, but for politics and is not afraid to say an opinion and fights for the interests of entrepreneurs. One example of how quickly a person can change his mind in five years. It is hard to give confidence to the government when there is one of the coalition partners, in this case the ČSSD, which has a key, basic resolution from its goddamn convention, where it says that it will not cooperate with the communists at the government level. A party that has set out some conditions for government coalition cooperation, including being Mr Poche's Foreign Minister, and we don't see him here today in government benches. Do these words apply to these leaders? Is what they're saying valid? It's hard to trust a coalition government supported by communists, and I think it's important that you're here, members of the government, because the previous contribution and the subsequent discussion on Mr Grebeníček's contribution - well, it was worth it. Because many of you who are here today as members of the government and as Members, who may, perhaps, you will say 'for a proposal' to trust this government, you stood in the streets in 1989 and rang the keys. You should have heard what fell out of Mr. Grebeníček's mouth for pearls! It was very interesting - even the subsequent - discussion. But interestingly, the Communist Party chairman told us 14 days ago why he wouldn't say some things publicly, even though he knows it's not true. Can I trust such a person, the representatives of this party, another person who will support this government here? Can the citizens of this country believe that? That is certainly not how I imagine the word trust in practice. Prime Minister, you were talking about humility here in your contribution. It was one of the first sentences you said when you came here to come with humility before this Chamber of Deputies. Please explain nicely to me after what it is in your interpretation of the concept of humility. If that's what I'm gonna call other people's opinions and criticism bullshit, some kind of twitter bubble? Or is it that you say about some with respect that their opinion isn't equally important just because the person is younger? Is that part of a cultural society, a democratic society, a parliamentary democracy? Well, it certainly doesn't. I don't see these things that way. I imagine, under the word trust, someone who holds his word, who doesn't bend his back, who stands straight, even if it doesn't suit him. And I would like the Czech Republic to have such a government. Now, if you don't mind, I'm going to suspend myself here on this government's programming statement. I must say that it has been mentioned several times in quite detail that this government has been driving - or the previous one has traveled around the regions and has mapped out the necessary investments, and this government, which is coming now, is asking for confidence, is going to fill them. It is good to read that the chapter is called Economic and Investment Policy. But under the word of the farmer, I imagine a responsible, honest economyman who, in addition to investing, is developing something does not live on debt either. Sobotkův's government, the previous Sobotkův government, had planned in its medium term budget that we should reach a balanced state budget between 2019 and 2020. Your government does not have this ambition in times of greatest economic growth. It is important to invest, but it is important not to continue to indebt. What will happen in the next crisis? How will you deal with this crisis if it occurs? Are you thinking about the future? [[16.30 hours]] You introduced a VAT reduction for some items to a level of 10 per cent. Is the question - is it really a thoughtful move? Is there any analysis to this step? An analysis that says that just repairing shoes, cleaning clothes, hairdressing and beauty services, cleaning houses and cleaning windows is really what the citizens of this country need to have at the lowest reduced VAT rate of 10 percent? Is that the state's sophisticated economic policy? Or is it a marketing kissing move? So it would not be better to say: well, we want to change VAT, save households their spending, so let's give it to meaningful items that also have other positive effects in relation to the environment. It reduces VAT to firewood, natural gas, organic food. And thus pursue much more positive goals for citizens of the Czech Republic. Or is it too complicated, and it's not exactly what this government wants to do? Another thing I'm missing here. Responsible caretaker. You write about legislation to simplify building procedures. About wanting to speed up traffic. About the new building bill. What did you do those four years when your ministers... Yes, in our coalition government. But your ministers had the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Regional Development, where these ministries are key for this legislation. You're writing about the acceleration of construction and the new law. And when is this law going on here, and it's on its knees across all the MPs? What the Ministry of Transport does to make it professionally, well done legislatively, including interministerial commentary. Where's the team of pros who work? Where are the billboards that this nation is running the klutz? I get the feeling that what you had on those billboards five years ago, you're actually fulfilling yourself. Already in the past period we had here a proposal that could introduce systemic financing of roads II. and III. classes, roads in regions, regions. At the time, you rejected this proposal and did not support it. Today, you are writing it solemnly in this document. [[He's showing the document.]] How are we supposed to believe you're serious? The Prime Minister here spoke of public procurement. About how strictly you will monitor those public contracts under scrutiny and not use so-called. JRBU, uniform procedure without publication. Why didn't you do it in case of a toll system? Why wasn't it done in the so-called NEN at the Ministry of Regional Development? You could have done it. You write that you will solve the toll system by 2020. Why wasn't it last year or the year before that? The last point here is in the category of transport infrastructure. It is a popular point, which is often mentioned by the President, and today he has not neglected to mention it. Danube-Odra-Labe channel. Every judge knows that even though the idea was interesting in Bati's first republic, by the time the Rhine and Danube connections were realized, every judge knows that we cannot implement this channel without support and cooperation with our neighbours. So I spoke to the Austrian Minister of the Environment. I spoke to the Saxon Minister of the Environment and the Federal Minister of the Environment of Germany. I have never heard from their mouths that they would say: we will support this project in cooperation with you. Yes, there is talk of navigating part of the Odra in northern Moravia. That's where the support from Poland is. But why are you throwing away taxpayers' money for further and further studies just to fulfill the pastime and the favor of Miloš Zeman? I mean, the project's unrealized unless those colleagues from the other states tell us they're coming with us. And they didn't say that. And listen to this project solve the drought in South Moravia? For God's Ján, let someone competent listen to experts, bioclimatologists, Professor Trnka, Professor Žalud of CzechGlobe. They'll tell you it's total nonsense. A Megalomaniac project that just today, at a time of climate change, at a time when every year we deal with drought in South Moravia and when there isn't enough water in the Danube, it just doesn't make sense. There is an interesting part here that concerns the protection of agricultural land as the most valuable heritage of our ancestors and our responsibilities to hand this land over to our children. It's on paper. [[He's showing the document again.]] Last December, the government discussed this year's proposal to tighten soil protection conditions for farmers under agricultural practice, so-called DZES. We prepared these parameters for a year and a half to make a real change in farmland management. Minister, ex-minister Milek and this government have de facto blown it apart. These plans remained in a completely minimalist version, and the government accepted it. Today we're talking about 47 hectares of other land to cut out for the new industrial zone near Olomouc. Twice, the lower instance of the Ministry of the Environment will give a negative opinion. At the highest level, it suddenly changes in opinion. The situation, where we have many unused industrial zones, other areas in the Olomouc Region, is cursed here by some biomedical center, which needs a maximum of two hectares in other locations in Europe. So we curse ourselves by taking more farmland. This is again, it is a contradiction between what you write here and what you do in your government practice! A number of cultural heritages have been mentioned here. The President and the Prime Minister also spoke of the need to invest in monuments. This is such an irony of fate that, thanks to the 40 years of the Communist regime, these monuments, cultural heritage and our national identity have been deliberately destroyed. Now you're symbolically talking about these things to make it look nice, and at the same time you're inviting the cause again to share in the administration of this country. For us, for the opposition, I can say for myself, even though I am now critical, and I have said many examples where I disagree with such a coalition that arises here because there have been many other variations. There may have been a coalition majority government here, but it was not the will of one single person who, about 14 days ago, told Mr Poche not to block the emergence of a new government and the emergence of a government with confidence, despite his personal ambitions. Interesting, paradoxical. Two meters. For me and for KDU-ČSL it is important, and this is virtually missing in this document - a statement of support for the family. Not only infrastructure, finance and technical tools, but also a family at a time when this nation is dying, when birth rates are less than two, is an important element for the future. You don't have much of that in there. Only two paragraphs of technical written social financial support. But an expression of value that the family is something that we want to build this society on, absolutely, is missing. Of course, I also lack greater emphasis on saying: we want to support and help those who cannot help themselves who need our help. We had a proposal here about 14 days ago that appreciated a much higher rate of women who are retired and who have significantly lower average pensions. We also wanted to appreciate this amendment here by the mothers who took care of their children so that, as was x tens of years before, according to the number of children raised and on the basis of the years worked, they could retire earlier. You have swept away these proposals that have been here that could have helped many of our fellow citizens. It is also important to promote a higher level of education. And this isn't just about salaries. Each of us, when we have the option and when we have the funds, likes to raise our hand to raise pensions, raise salaries. But in this education it is also important to talk about the quality of teaching. About what ethics are, ethical education. Support for the non-governmental non-profit sector is also important for me. I'm sorry that the President kicks the government's nonprofit sector so often. I am not saying that all NGOs are always God-loving and beneficial to this country. But throwing an organization like Falcon, Eagle, Junak, fishermen and others in one bag doesn't seem fair to me. These people deserve our support. They're working on raising future generations, giving values to our children. And it is very important for me as a member of the KDU-ČSL that we also support and honour our commitments to foreign partners. We are not an uncritical and blind-looking opposition. Three weeks ago, we helped place a point here on Friday that we approved our foreign NATO missions. I think it is important that we defend the security of our citizens, citizens of the Czech Republic and abroad, and that we are those who can fulfil their obligations. I want us to be a proud state - we are a middle-sized state - but a proud state that does not kiss anyone's ass does not need to sign any statements, but which also defends its interests in Europe and in the world for the benefit of its citizens. [[16.40 hours]] It was mentioned here by another Member - I dare to react, he has already left - Mr Kováčik, a bit ridiculous that we were members of the National Front as KDU-ČSL. Some Members have smiled and nodded at it here. I suggest you see who was part of the National Front. In addition to communists, socialists, folks, they were also organizations such as the Czech Union of Women, or the Association of Disability, the Czech Union of Philatelists, the Czech Union of Small Animal Breeders, the Czech Association of Beekeepers, and I could continue. You will virtually not find more people in the Czech Republic who would not be actively involved in these organizations in some way over the past 40 years. Just for the record, over the 40 years, six million Čech were members of the Communist Party at different times. I'm not proud of that history. To the fact that the People's Party was part of the National Front. We have also repeatedly apologized for participating in these matters. But I've never heard an apology and regret on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies about what happened in 40 years of Communist rule in Czechoslovakia. Stories and troubles of the 1990s and wild privatizations were mentioned here. No one can agree with that and be satisfied. But there's no blood behind these stories, there's no executed people, there's no political prisoners, people who had to flee abroad, people who couldn't study. That's a big difference. And you just can't downplay communist totalitarianism like that. Dear members, members of the government, dear Members, honourable Members, are you really proud of such a government? Who's he gonna lean on? Won't your children be ashamed of your yes after your vote and your vote of confidence in this government today? Did you ask yourself that question? Let me conclude by saying that having only the economic and technical instruments for the development of the Czech Republic is not enough. Just democracy without values will easily turn into totalitarianism or hidden totalitarianity. Let me wish to the Czech Republic, whatever the outcome of today's negotiations - we assume that this government will, unfortunately, gain confidence - I wish that the three and a half years would remain unharmed, that those levels of regional and municipal policy could better manage our country and that they could bring positive values that we are talking about today. Ladies and gentlemen, I am perfectly clear. A government with the support of communists headed by a criminally prosecuted prime minister who was accused here a year ago of tasking journalists against political competition, who are suspected of optimizing their tax returns in the form of bonds that are criminally prosecuted, I cannot give confidence. Thank you for your understanding and your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u70	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka and then I would like to ask Mr Marek Výborný to speak and Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u71	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, dear government, dear colleagues, much has been said here and should not, in a general sense, repeat these things. I think we are all determined to take a vote on government trust. However, allow me to make a few comments, especially on the chapter that has not been mentioned here today. On the one hand, the President of the Republic has confirmed that there is open talk of a three-calice. If you listened well, he spoke of three presidents, talking about the formation of a coalition of three parties, the ANO, the ČSSD and the KSČM movement. It's a little hypocritical when some Social Democrats are trying to cover this up, or they're ashamed of having something to do with it, and they're only blaming it on Andrej Babiš. I think we need to be clear. We know what kind of government arises here and with what support and with which cover and beyond from other political parties. However, I would like to focus on a chapter that the Prime Minister spoke very briefly about this morning. He talked about the need to talk, communicate in the Justice Department. Mrs. Short-term Minister suggested, or recommended, that she rather listen and remain silent. Nevertheless, we will find some words worth recalling in the programming statement and may also ask some questions. I quote from the programme statement: "We consider the idea of a rule of law based on respect for constitutionally protected principles of division of power, the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms as the key value of our social arrangement. We will respect these principles in all our steps and further strengthen them." Okay, we're all clear here. We see it, we want it, there's a match. Finally, these general theories are copied from one government statement to another. I just don't know the extent to which some steps are correlated with this new government, or the previous first government of Andrej Babiš, or the steps of Miloš Zeman. Because I don't really like the way the government's been drawn up with what's written here in the programming statement. If Andrej Babiš, as the designed prime minister, goes to Castle with a list and does not insist that the proposal, as it is presented, is to be accepted, then here we at least bend the Constitution and that is not good. There's been an historic event here for me. In July 1947 Jan Masaryk returned from Moscow from negotiations with Josif Vissarionovič Stalin and after arriving in Prague he talked about his departure to Moscow as Czechoslovak foreign minister and returned as Stalinův's helper. Don't be mad at me, it's an analogy to me. I think we should go back to what the Constitution says, which clearly defines the position and role of the President of the Republic, which clearly speaks of the fact that we are neither a half-president nor a presidential system, but a parliamentary one, and so it should be. I quote further from the programme statement: "Legal and justice are the cornerstones of the rule of law. The trust of citizens in courts and prosecutors is a condition for the effectiveness of the rule of law." I'll answer that with a question. Prime Minister, what steps will the government take to meet this objective that you have in your programming declaration in practice? How do you ensure that there is no inadequate interference with the functioning of security forces, prosecutors, public media and freedom of speech? How will the government strengthen respect for constitutional principles? These aren't things that paper can handle, and we can put them in a drawer somewhere at the Office of the Government because the government has gained confidence. These are very serious values that we must not take lightly. And the clues that are here to restrict freedom of speech, or to attack public media, are very dangerous and we must not put our heads in the sand before them. Another sentence from the programming statement, perhaps even more serious: "The law must be predictable and must be enforceable." Thus predictableness and respect for justice will be assured, for example, by taxing compensation for unissued property on the basis of an already concluded settlement agreement between the State and the churches. Yes, for example, the taxation of refunds is a perfectly exemplary breach of legal certainty, causing the law to be absolutely unpredictable. So those steps that the Prime Minister says need to be taken, even though they are not explicitly formulated in the government's programming statement, with loud support from KSČM, we have heard this from Mr Kováčik here repeatedly today, that is so, they are going precisely against the government's programming statement. The right is to be predictable and enforceable. So what's predictable about breaking the contracts we made? Nota bene is going to violate the state that did so. [[16.50 hours]] The next thing we know here is to my colleague, Mrs Válková, because I found the phrase in the programming statement, "Let's put forward a new law on experts." So I am not quite sure who formed the Chapter of Law and Justice in the Government's programming declaration. I would just like to point out that the law on experts has already been passed through the first reading, and although the law is clearly a legislative asshole, all the representatives of the expert groups are de facto unanimous on this, so the ANO movement has concluded that Mrs Válková will have the task of having a whole holiday so as not to rest, and that law will be put together here, on the ground of the Chamber of Deputies. So I don't know if the government wants to make this situation easier for the constitutionally legal committee and the rapporteur, and if it doesn't have a new draft law on experts hidden anywhere. But if I'm based on a programming statement, that's probably the case. Mrs Válková, through Mr President, maybe it would be worth agreeing with the Prime Minister to avoid unnecessary work on something that will then be completely different. And the third thing I think is also very serious. I quote: "We will continue to fight corruption in all areas. We will coordinate this fight systemically, evaluate the effectiveness of anti-corruption measures already taken in practice and propose appropriate changes and additions. In this context, we will present, in particular, effective legal instruments for the protection of corruption notifiers and the Act on lobbying regulation based on international recommendations." That really does seem pretty smiling. I never thought words "we will systematically coordinate the fight against corruption" might sound like a good joke. I just wish, dear government, you wouldn't have stopped the fight against corruption altogether. If I take the final steps of the government of Andrej Babiš, whether it's temporary or current, we have a nomination law here, we know how the government and the ANO movement have taken it. We had a contract register here, same thing in pale blue. Are you really taking or are you talking about these words... Or are you talking about what you have in your programming statement about coordinating anti-corruption measures - are you really serious? From the steps you've been taking here for months and weeks, I don't really get the impression. You are talking about adopting legal instruments to protect corruption notifiers. So, when we look at the situation of the last year at the Ministry of Finance, two officials were fired, who drew attention to the unusual interest of Andrej Babiš in the conduct of OLAF's investigations, were boycotted by government proposals that Andrej Babiš insisted on his parliamentary proposal written by Ondřej Závodský, who was then punished by Minister Schillerová and was relieved of his duties as Deputy Minister. So these things really are in direct conflict with what is in the government's programming declaration. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the deed has escaped. I would very much like it, because the government's programming statement is a bundle of promises, paper can take anything, so I would very much like those promises to be meant seriously and the things that are there are not just a piece of paper for July 11, 2018, but that they are really and seriously fulfilled in practice. In all the chapters that are there. KDU-ČSL has already made it abundantly clear here today that it will not support this government for a number of reasons that have been mentioned here - how it was created, who is in charge of it -. If, of course, the government comes up with reasonable proposals, we are ready to discuss these proposals, to debate so that they are in favour of the Czech Republic, to be in favour of the citizens of this state, but it is necessary to be responsible and to follow up with what someone is signing up for in the Government's programming declaration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u72	Well, that was Mr. Výborný. Now I am interested in a factual remark. So I would like to ask Mrs Helena Válková to speak and then prepare for the general debate by Mr Václav Klaus. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u73	Mr Vice-President, my dear fellow Members, I will respond because I have basically been called upon by you through you, Mr Vice-President, Mr fellow Member Výborný, and I do not like to remain indebted to an answer to such a simple question. That's one. The new law, I suppose it will. Secondly, I work closely with him and I am in close contact with the representatives of various expert professional groups, and I am also promised to cooperate with the legislative department of the Ministry of Justice, which was informed immediately after we have passed this standard to second reading, that if there are no major systemic changes in some parameters, the law as a whole is not legally misguided, as has been said here, but we must make a number of changes there in order to avoid any risk of crippling, or let's say some threat to the expert activity on the one hand. On the other hand, we must set standard conditions for the control and responsibility of experts and the quality of expert opinions. So for itself - it's coordinated, the new law, I hope it will. And I like working during the holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Lady, for keeping up with the time and the performance. We will return to the general debate. So, Mr Václav Klaus and Mrs Pekarová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u75	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me also say a few words. After all, the twenty-first government of our Czech Republic has applied for trust after a hundred years since the establishment of the Republic, i.e. 47 years of Nazism or communism. Today it is an important event for the Republic and must be said immediately for which republic. I would like to live in a country where the basis of everything is a single citizen, a single citizen and his family, because the wealth of society, whatever, is created by spontaneous activities of free people, not by regulations, subsidies, taxes, or government. I would like to live in a country that has low taxes and low spending of the state budget, not high and inconspicuous taxes and huge and rising state spending. And Ronald Reagan once called it people before government. I would like to live in a country that systematically disturbs unnecessary, dysfunctional and often even strictly dangerous institutions. We had a Mrs. Ombudswoman here, we have dozens of other weird state-owned independent organizations, funds and agencies to which we choose delegates here almost every Wednesday without knowing them. Citizen, family, community, state, in that order. Nothing extra, nothing in between. I would therefore like, for example, to do so. to live in a country that will abolish self-governing regions. I want to live in a land where there is free life. The state is supposed to guarantee fundamental rights, the right to life, freedom, ownership. In the vast majority of other matters, the state is responsible for restraint. I would like to live in a country that effectively serves Czech citizens and is strong in promoting their interests. Our life takes place in the Czech Republic, let us solve Czech problems and Czech interests, not foreign interests, not other people's problems. I would like to live in a country that defends the safety of its citizens, a country where ordinary police officers providing security on the streets and in the field are adequately valued, not top political police officers managing from the offices of some campaign or coup. I would like to live in a country defending our traditions and the legacy of our ancestors, in a country where the military is primarily used to protect the Republic, not just for international actions, and in a country where the military is capable of this goal. I would like to live in a country that excels among the other education of its people, not that it only remembers that. I want to live in a country that can get its taxes to good teachers and let them work. I want to live in a country whose leaders speak clearly to people and do not try to deceive them at every turn. Here I would like to quote today's government programme on the euro currency. I quote: 'The government does not see at present the possibility of adopting a common European currency, but nevertheless continues to respect all commitments made'. So yes, no, maybe. Then I'll say it for myself. [[17,00 hours]] I want to live in a country where the Czech crown is paid. I want to live in a country that has few laws, but for that universally respected. I want to live in a country that doesn't jump into every totality that goes around. We barely grew out of the history of the international labor movement, where history was supposedly determined by its relationship with the production facilities, and already offer us new doctrines. They are based on the idea that all history determines the power by which different groups defined on the basis of race, sex, and similarly control and discriminate against other groups. They teach it at the faculty, transfer it to life. It's an ideology of political correctness. They hate classic families. He hates classical education. They hate the classic nations. They hate independent, independent individuals. That's what they have to do with Marxism. They refer to whole groups of people as homophobes, sexists, racists, people full of prejudice. And their enemies are not misguided to discuss, but those who need to be silenced, condemned and rejected. It is a system similar to religion, resulting in destruction of free and normal discussion. I want to live in a country where you can talk freely, i.e. strongly critically, and not just parrot mainstream truths in science, universities, state administration. I don't want to live in a country where you talk differently at home and in public. The original Marxists believed that upbringing could be eradicated by selfishness and selfishness, and that people would work as hard for the common good as they did for their own. Multiculturalism transmits the search for human perfection from the economic sphere to the social and cultural sphere and requires people to give up tribal feeling and belonging and to prefer another and foreign to familiarity. The original Marxism failed, unable to change human nature. Now they want the same thing. I want to live in a country that rejects such delusions, which does not label people who speak clearly with the word populist, as if trying to be popular is something bad in democracy, as if it were not the basis of democracy. Yes, for example, I want to live in a country where marriage is a union between one man and one woman. I want to live in a country where progress and innovation are driven by the private sector and not by the crazy state campaigns Industry 4.0 or the Digital Czech Republic, from which only a tool to control citizens is seen rather than their better life. I want to live in a country that doesn't bully a citizen, and I don't care whether digitally or in other forms. Yes, I want to live in a country where it is worth working under all circumstances, not drawing benefits. I want to live in a country that protects nature for people, not against people. I do not want to tolerate the patent of a group of activists to decide on Sumava, forests, waters, constructions or, for example, bark. I want to live in a country where everyone who does something actively or decides, for example, the mayor of the village, is not automatically a suspect. In the fight against corruption, I want to stand up to hard-hitting organized groups robbing billions, not a police-diagnosed state where nothing is allowed and where shopkeepers get big fines when they forget to mark gum. I want to live in a country that treats old people with respect, who don't just see a voting machine in them, but they don't care about their opinions. I want a country where flats are built, where the real estate market isn't just reacting to price increases. I don't want to live in a country where much depends on how loud you yell, what kind of lobby you have, where there are nurses or kindergarten teachers in the lowest parts of your resorts. I want a proud and confident foreign policy similar to Poland or Hungary. I want all of this, and I'm sure that this government isn't capable or willing to guarantee for our country that it doesn't even want to do it itself, that it wants to just sort of rule. And that's why he's not getting my vote today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u76	So that was MP Václav Klaus. And now I will ask Mrs Pekarová to speak, and the Rakušan Member will prepare himself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. We've heard a lot today. In the Prime Minister's speech, it was a pelmela of promises and a series of proclamations. The word "priority" has been said so many times that the priority for the government seems to be nothing at all. In fact, it seems that your only priority, Prime Minister, is to be in power at all costs. For four years, you acted like you had nothing to do with the government, even though you were part of it. I mean, it depends. If something was wrong, of course you took this approach. But if something was right, we're supposed to owe it to you. In your speech, I was impressed that the main priority in the social field is labour market regulation for you. In the government's programming statement, you do not specify what this regulation should look like, which is not surprising, because only a minimum of the points in the programming declaration at least outlines the specific form of their implementation. However, when I hear the link between labour market regulation, I am beginning to worry about what you intend to prepare for changes for our already overly rigid labour law. If you wanted legislation in this area applicable to the 21st century, thanks especially to modern technologies rapidly changing working conditions, then it would certainly be commendable, we need it as salt. That is what TOP 09 is trying to do, and we are also promoting a reduction in labour costs, which the government is also a little ambitious. If I stay on social matters that I have been doing for a long time, I lack, among other things, greater emphasis on developing the services of care for the smallest children. There is no promise to address the future of the basic component of this care, namely the financing of children's groups. I acknowledge the effort to change the funding of social services. There really is a need to introduce longer-term and more secure mechanisms. But it is the financing of childcare services that is insufficient in our country or too dependent on resources from European funds. And they won't last forever. TOP 09 has produced a very detailed analysis of the entire government programming declaration. I'm not gonna read it all here. It's about 15 pages, so I don't think that's gonna be viable. For the most part, however, this analysis defines the shortcomings of the programme, the non-ambience, the absence of a whole range of essential needs, as the President of our parliamentary club, for example, has already referred to them. I agree that the absolute priority for the Czech Republic is now to be quality education. The Prime Minister identified him as an absolute priority in his speech. But it's quite typical that he started talking about him after about an hour and a half of his speech. And in the main six priorities that we all have on our desks, on our desks, within the programme, education is found in just one sentence, and in addition, in conjunction with only funding and apprentices. No visions of educated, self-confident society. No emphasis on the need to modernise teaching. No reference to the fact that we might have as a model a country that actually does everything in its power to build its competitiveness on the knowledge of its people. After all, Prime Minister, you yourself praised their educational system when you visited Finland. But I don't see much in the programming statement. Education is an absolute priority only in speech, but no longer on paper. And how it will actually be can be rightly feared. Yet an educated society prepared for the challenges of a globalised world is indeed essential. This is really an absolute priority for TOP 09. This should also be taken into account within the budget. It should be obvious. The government that is asking for our trust today is left-wing government. Whatever her chairman and members say, it is. It's even a semi-communist government. On her appointment, Prime Minister Babiš recalled President Masaryk, literally saying, quote: "The potential of our nation, our country, is huge. And we have what it takes to get back to the top of Europe, where we were behind Masaryk." Even a high school student in history knows that those who, after the Second World War, did not only follow up the success of Czechoslovakia from the 1920s and 1930s, but literally paralyzed the country and threw it far away not only into economic marasm, were communists. Prime Minister, are these the ones with whom you want us to return to the top of Europe? [[17.10 hours]] Communists did not reform, they still stand on the same ideological foundations. They continue the work of their predecessors. So when, in the year of the 100th anniversary of the founding of Czechoslovakia, the Prime Minister is shielding himself with Masaryk, it is appropriate to recall what Masaryk had just judged communism. Therefore, I quote: "What, in principle, I do not regard communism as an ideal of socialist and socialist, if communism means economic and social equality completely. The normal state of society political and social cannot be realized without strong individualism, i.e. without the free initiative of individuals, and this practically means a regime that allows the development of diverse individualities, physically and spiritually from nature equally gifted. The same is the situation of every individual in society, the same is social around him, the individual can best use his own forces and forces of his surroundings according to his own recognition. If a person makes a different decision about a person, and if he leads, there is a danger that he will not make proper use of all his powers. This to see everywhere and see it politically in all forms of government, in which he developed a stronger centralism. And communism is centralist right now." It is clear that the government leaning on the Communists cannot be shielded by this masarykovský period of Czech history, because it is something that is completely unacceptable from the mouth of an ex-communist party member and an agent of its security power. Those who say that being an anti-communist is cheap, use the combination of cheap anti-communism, we have also heard it here today, as if they had forgotten, or rather wanted to forget that many, and worldwide it was millions of people, paid the highest price for it. My own life. Therefore, all those for whom it is unacceptable for us, as it is for us, that the communists should once again be in a significant position of power, I would ask them not to submit not only to political life but also to civilian life. To keep them from resigning and not seeing the situation as irreversible. After all, the quoted Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk is also the author of the statement, which he made on the 10th anniversary of the founding of Czechoslovakia, which was: "Twenty, thirty years later. By then, a new generation will be born in freedom. Sir, she can't take that freedom anymore." He may have been mistaken in his estimation. And I firmly believe that I do not. That taught history does not really allow people to take freedom and that they simply pay for everything in time. Prime Minister Babiš, to complete your knowledge of Masaryk, since you're already shielding yourself with it, I want to dedicate this book to you. I chose a more concise one on purpose because I feel like you're not reading too much, and I don't think you have much time. But it is a hundred statements from President Garriguo Masaryk, which are explained including context. I'm sure you'll need to know what you're doing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u78	That was Mrs Pekarová's speech, and I would now ask for Mr Rakušan's speech. And Mr. Jan Bauer will be ready. Ambassador, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u79	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Prime Minister, members and members of the Government of the Czech Republic, honourable colleagues, honourable Members, I, too, have borrowed one definition to start with. What is trust? Trust is the willingness of one entity to rely on another entity. The typical characteristics that are exposed to the risk by placing trust are honor, reliability or self-confidence. I believe that this risk is disproportionately high in the case of the government before us. Prime Minister Babiš and his ANO movement before the elections have surrounded the entire Republic by preparing for us the government of real experts. I'm asking if this is the result of the eight-month search. If the best of the best really sits behind my back, experts in their fields, when the Minister of Justice is wanted the last night before we express our confidence in the government. When two major positions within the government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of the Interior are held by one and the same person. When within the government there was a shift from one resort to another resort without prior professional experience. I'm really asking: Is this the promised government of experts? Will the YES movement ever be able to afford to use this shortcut in its marketing quality campaign, which surely stands out among other political competitors? Absolutely not. The government of Miloš Zeman, not the government of Andrej Babiš - I think that is the essential characteristic of what is happening here. The Miloš Zeman, who spoke of the Prime Minister a few years ago as a person who certainly does not deserve his trust. There's a big part of the president who's always been a political talent. It's his concert. He was able to build a government that he wanted. He attended a Communist Party convention, spoke to his comrades and comrades, including this address. And he just proved that the government's personnel are consistent with his fantasies. He was able to nominate his own people to the ranks of the Czech Government. And he even proved that social democracy did not simply push its nominee to the Czech government. I wonder a little bit also to a strong politician like Andrej Babiš that this is humanly, politically acceptable to him and is retreating from the dictation of the President. But I wonder even more about social democracy, and I wonder where this oldest Czech democratic party is still willing to retreat in its self-esteem. We will certainly follow some compromise solutions and at the end of the summer we will learn that they have found another suitable candidate for the Foreign Minister. The big question is, is it really the government of the person who introduced her to us here today in a long speech? A government without a priority on education has fallen many times, I will no longer deal with aspects of economics. That YES did not support the proposal for an increase in salaries for the educators we presented. But what else is education and education other than a basic assumption for people to think critically? Every nation that is educated, truly educated, and doesn't care about the academic degree now, but the general overview of the knowledge of its own history, the knowledge of its own history and the lessons of that history, every such educated nation is dangerous to the authoritarian regime. For anyone who looks at the world from the position of authority, from the position of totalitarianism. Perhaps, therefore, education is not in the six main priorities presented by the government today. Another reason why it is an inappropriate risk to support this government is its unclear foreign policy direction. In the chapter on this subject, we read: a strong link with our allies, a strong link within the UN, the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance. Is this government to be supported by the Communists today? There's no automatic question here, what are they gonna do it for? Or is there any other secret agreement that we are not as serious about our partnership with the North Atlantic Alliance as we put it in the programming statement? And after all, in the second sentence, we will immediately say that increasing the number of our soldiers in missions is unacceptable to the government? Aren't we talking? Isn't there a situation where the government just doesn't give us a clear answer to the foreign policy direction of our country when it comes before us with a request for trust? Or is that what President Zeman is saying at this time, who, in any event, has been leaning eastward in recent months and years? [[17.20 hours]] Prime Minister Babiš said today that the government is here for everyone. Prime Minister Babiš, I'll tell you who this government isn't for. This government is not for political prisoners, this government is not for people who were persecuted during the period of totalitarianism. This government is not for those whose families have broken up as a result of forced emigration. This government is not for people who suffered under the former regime. On the contrary, the government is a disappointment to these people, because many of them thought that they would never again experience a moment in their lifetime for which all those who will vote for the government's trust will be jointly responsible for never experiencing a situation where communists will have such a huge share of power, as is the case today. After all, she is not even for all pensioners, because the lowest pensions are at this time those who suffered under communism were not allowed to perform the professions they wanted to perform, they were not allowed to grow any careers and were simply dependent on the fact that in their professional development they had to submit to the Communist dictatorship that they would not achieve a better position if they did not enter the party. In January, I used a quote from Snyder Snyder to mock many here in plenary at the first request of the Government of Andrej Babiš for trust. But nothing's changed. So let me repeat some words: "Don't slouch in advance. Authoritarian regimes can often usurp power for free without resisting. People are already pondering what the repressive regime might want them to do. Preventive obedience accelerates the onset of non-freedom." End of quote. So let's not make the onset of freedom easier. Let us not call the Chamber of Deputies a blabbermouth. Let us not call the opposition's statements bullshit - I apologize for this statement, but it is a repeated quote many times. That's the retreat from those democratic positions. And I don't think that's the value of democratically-minded politicians. Over the last few years, President Zeman has relied on the great journalist Ferdinand Peroutka many times in his existing - nonexistent article. Undeservedly soiled his name, never apologized. I'll let that go now. However, let me read one quote by Ferdinand Peroutka, which to this day fits better than any other: "Communism, which, according to theory, cannot be realized otherwise than by revolution and dictatorship, takes life's natural growth and development and wants to push everything into a dry riverbed of one theory, which is always more unilaterally and grayer than life. " End of quote. Please do not let life in the Czech Republic be gray again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u80	So it was Mr. Rakušan, and now with priority rights, Mr. President Bělobrádek, and Mr. Jan Bauer will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to that resolution which essentially forces the entire government to sit here all the time. I found out in the legislation that we can't change this resolution here and now, but I think it's a little unfair for everyone to have to sit here all the time, and if they need to go to the bathroom, we have to cancel the meeting. So I'd like to call on two things. To the first, that the grémium or club presidents should at least come together and propose a change to this resolution, which is, if I understood it well, within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, and the second, whether the President would consider any regular breaks, so that the members of the government do not really have to sit here all the time and be after some - and now it's probably up to agreement with the members of the government - for regular breaks, because it would probably be a bit bizarre to have to interrupt the meeting from time to time for purely physiological reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u82	Thank you. I therefore have to commend the members of the government, because on the basis of the resolution I have read, so without calling them, so everyone tells me that they want to go to the toilet for example, they report to me here some time before they return. I therefore welcome the fact that all ministers - and here the Minister - report obediently as at school, where they are going and that they will go for a while. However, you're right that it's for consideration, because we're going to go on for about a long time, that we could technically call a break. It will be on the President who will chair it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u83	Thank you, Mr President. That's more like it. I understand why this provision may have been approved because it is then undignified - or if part of the government had not been here at all on the day that this government's trust was approved... But to find some solution to make it look less like the mouth of an old woman, as Vinnetou said, but to make it bearable somehow. So I'm gonna ask if that's what the Grémium would be about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u84	So I think that even as far as today's meeting is concerned, if the presidents of the MPs agree to do so, at some point, if it's on a general agreement, then we may need to take a little technical break. I think it's really up to the House's current leadership to sit here at the moment. On the other hand, I would ask the members of the government if they wanted to go to the bathroom, so that they would report it, so that the chairman could say... [[Noise in the hall]] No, so that we don't make unnecessary breaks here, so that we have the reasons, because one of the Members can step out and ask for a break, so let's go on continuously. Because obviously, by the fact that we still have 24 minutes of debate, the debate is probably going to go on late at night. So let's go back to the general debate. Mr Bauer has the floor and Mrs Golasowská will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear government, Prime Minister, as a member of the Civil Democratic Party, but also as Jan Bauer, a Member responsible only for his conscience, I will not be able to trust this government today. Andrej Babiš should not be Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. He's a former communist, former member of Communist State Security. Andrej Babiš is not a Democrat, he is an oligarch who did not hesitate to lie to enforce his interests. He did not hesitate to abuse the media he bought for this purpose. The Czech Prime Minister should be the best of us, the most capable and above all moral. Andrej Babiš degrades the position of Czech Prime Minister and moves the Czech Republic in my opinion towards the Balkans. I suspect, perhaps in vain, but yet I call on Members for social democracy, do not give or do not give confidence to this government. And I'll tell you why. If you raise your hand, you will be the only democratic party to agree that a man like Andrej Babiš is a Czech Prime Minister with the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. If you set this bar, who will you trust next? Tomio Okamur? Or some communist thugs? If you raise your hand for the government with the support of the communists, you send a signal that the communists can be useful somehow, that it makes sense to vote for them to have a place in the Czech political system. You know, I understand when you see the good-willed face of Vojtěch Filip, you're not afraid of the Communists. After all, Vojtěch Filip has been lying in our pond as Česílkův's friendly carp Osmikiláč for a long time. But out of his shadow, piranhas can sail at any time, biting our democracy to the bone. All these rumors ring in my ears that you're saving democracy so that Andrej Babiš doesn't rule here with the support of the Communists and the SPD, and how the ODS could have saved it all if she had gone into government with the YES movement. We did not want and could not go to the government with YES movement, whether with or without Andrej Babiš. ANO is Andrej Babiš, any other Prime Minister for YES would only be his puppet. With the support of the Communists and the SPD, the minority government of Andrej Babiš did not consider the ODS a threat that should undermine the principles on which it stands. The minority government YES with the support of communists and SPD was not a threat to the Czech Republic either. This dark and absurd pact would sooner or later end the political period of Andrej Babiš. This treaty with the devil would show that it was never about the benefit of his voters or the Czech Republic, but only about his own interests. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare to speculate that Andrej Babiš would never choose this option anyway. To argue with the Communists and to argue with Tomio Okamura about every government decision? Every law in the House? Can you imagine the horror? So should we be afraid of early elections because Andrej Babiš will win again and the stalemate will be repeated? Wrong. It would be a solution, and it's still one of the solutions. The new elections and the new stalemate would show that the YES movement with Andrej Babiš in the lead is a poor choice because it does not lead to a new majority government, it does not lead to stability. He's not going anywhere. It would be catharsis that would change the political distribution of forces in the Czech Republic. [[17.30 hours]] Perhaps someone told you that if you raised your hand for the government, you were saving social democracy, that without participation in the government, you would fall at the limit of choice. After the election before last, you had 20 percent and the Prime Minister. After the government's cooperation with Andrej Babiš, you ended up at 7 percent, Andrej Babiš politically destroyed your chairman and overtook about one third of your electorate. How will your government cooperation end this time, dear colleagues from social democracy? I think you're going into an uneven fight. Andrej Babiš is a political terminator of the second generation. [[Jollyness in the benches of the ANO Members.]] That's the liquid metal robot you put a hole in, but he doesn't mind, he has no inhibitions, no conscience. True, people eventually destroyed this terminator. On their side, however, fought the terminator of the first generation, the old Schwarzenegger Arnold. We also have him on the Czech political scene - President Miloš Zeman. Unfortunately, he's not on your side, he's not fighting you. If I think, colleagues from social democracy, that there is only one way you can survive another government with Andrej Babiš, how not to lose face completely, place on the political scene and at least minimal coalition potential: don't be bought, don't be humiliated, don't be intimidated. And if it gets worse, send this government to hell. After all, it's not your government, it's Andrej Babiš's government, the president and the communists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u86	Thank you, too. Before I invite another party to the debate, Mr Kováčik is here with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, a lot of wisdom came from the speech of the previous speaker. It is obvious that he is an intelligent man and understood well what is going on here in the House, which is why he liked to come back here after a while. Perhaps one day, through Mr President, you will catch up with the Osmikiláč. Now, get to the point. In order to prove that the Communists support this government before the vote, I would now like to ask for ten minutes' break at the KSČM club's meeting so that the government has a chance to apply its physiological and other needs when we keep it so hard in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u88	Thank you for the suggestion. I'm declaring a ten-minute recess until 5:42 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u89	Dear colleagues, it is 17.42, so the break is over. Unfortunately, I'm afraid not all the members of the government are here, so I'll wait a little longer. [[After a while.]] I would therefore like to call once again on the members of the Government to come to the Chamber of Deputies, to participate in our negotiations, and if no one objects, I would call on Mrs Golasowská to be the next party to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also cannot support a government based on support for personal and political reasons -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u91	I'll cut you off and ask my colleagues to calm down. We're talking about government trust, and I have a feeling there's a bit of noise on the left side. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u92	I cannot support, for personal and political reasons, a government that relies on the support of the KSČM. However, I would like to say a few words on the Government's programming statement, namely on the chapter of social policy. I am very concerned about the non-speaking phrases in the programming declaration, especially in the chapter just mentioned. In his speech today, Prime Minister Babiš said that the programme statement sets goals and solves problems. I have experience from practice that the goal should be specific, measurable, acceptable, feasible and timed. Unfortunately, I didn't find a lot of things in that programming statement regarding the objectives. There is, for example, a proposal to enforce an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, where it is said that a professional work force for pension reform will be compiled again. When I reach into history, we know that pension committees have been operating since 2004, which is 14 years old, and we know that the pension system has not changed comprehensively in its entirety. As an example, the pension reform committee has prepared and approved a reform proposal and a system proposal to reduce contributions to working parents, which has subsequently developed the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in detail and subsequently approved the government. However, it was the current Prime Minister Babiš and his ANO movement who opposed the adoption of this key measure, and because of their political not because of this crucial step was confirmed by Parliament and remained unrealized. Our pension system continues to work at the expense of working families by children, who thus finance out of their own pockets and by their work provide for the upbringing of future payers of our ongoing system. I would also mention that about 14 days ago, KDU-ČSL presented amendments that really concerned the poorest and needy, which are widowed and mothers who raised children and have low pensions. Unfortunately, it has been pointed out that this proposal is incompatible, that it is partial and that a proposal will be prepared to solve problems throughout their scope. I would have a great request to the government, which, if it is approved, to actually deal with it and not just with proposals that will remain on paper. Because we have a bunch of program statements, action plans, and other papers, but unfortunately, in practice, the deed has escaped. I also have a few comments on the quotations in the Social Policy chapter in the programming declaration. For example, we will create an offer of non-traditional forms of work and flexible jobs. There is no explanation of what is the concept of an unconventional form of work, and there is also no mention of promoting diverse opportunities for intergenerational cooperation between children, parents, grandparents, support for a wider family. And I would like to make a brief mention of social services, and here I would like to put emphasis on financing the non-profit sector. In autumn, we are close to approving the budget again, and we know from the years past how we fight for social services finances every year. The programme statement mentions that social services should be high-quality, timely, locally and financially accessible, but we know what it looks like in practice. And I approve that social services be available, that they be of good quality and that those who provide them be financially valued. Unfortunately, I have to ask here where we're going to get the money, and that question has already been raised here with some of my previous speakers. I will also mention the law on social and affordable housing, which is a permanent evergreen, and I would also like to ask here that this be a really specific solution. And I would also like to say that I am missing the mention of the hostels and the thousands of people who are in the hostels, and we need to address this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u93	Thank you, too. I am a little reluctant to call on another speaker, given that there is a lack of two-time minister and the first Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček. But if no one opposes, I will invite another speaker, Mr Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have also decided to take the floor in this debate to such an important moment in our negotiations, and this is the debate on how to express confidence in the Government of the Czech Republic. It is all the more remarkable that this government does not come up in the standard way, and I am thinking in the standard way in terms of intensity as we perceive policy in the Czech Republic. It comes with the support of the Communist Party. I've been in communism for 40 years. At the age of 40, I saw the end of it, and I thought I would never live to see the Communists starting again in one way or another wire to power. Many people say that these fears are actually odd, unnecessary, that the danger is not so great or that it is not really any. It might seem that this is the case. The party, today, is not the state party that we elders remember from the time of so-called real socialism, or, as we may say mostly, communism. At the time it was really a huge institution of nearly two million members, if I'm not mistaken, which had its basic organization in every workplace and which actually managed the operation of the entire company. The headmaster of the school could not do anything without consulting the chairman of the basic organization of the KSČ. That's just the way it was then. Our friends, colleagues who were members of these organizations, members of the KSČ, made it a little easier, but eventually they and their families were ready to serve that communism. I think that it is not entirely that the process of government creation itself, using the support of communists, presents itself with great danger to our democracy, for three reasons. For one thing, it's a big symbol. It's a big symbolism. This is happening in the year of the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Republic. I think the communists are getting off here, some of their performances show how they already want to participate in the laces greased in fat, share in the various advantages. Finally, in his speech, Mr Grebeníček expressed it very crystallinely, the reminiscence of theirs and, unfortunately, of certain parts of our society, after the rules in force at the time, which we remember with horror, but they remember them with nostalgia and, in fact, with some kind of grief that they may never come back for them again, and therefore use this loophole that democracy has opened to try again to get back to the power, and maybe to get back to the order for themselves. The second reason I consider this a great danger is relativism with which Prime Minister Babiš is taking this step. He figured there was no other way, so he's just gonna use that path. Yes, the purpose justifies the means. He claims there were a lot of options. It wasn't. He just thinks it's possible and that he's okay with it. That's why he can use the communists like that. They don't know they're being used, but they do. Moreover, it is still possible to believe that this is actually the step that Mr. Babiš is resuscitating from some deathbed where they have come from in the last election the worst outcome that their party has ever experienced in the history of their existence. They made even greater electoral profits in the first Republic. Of course, I don't count the totalitarian period when it was 99.9 percent, but now they're seven or how many. It's just a tragedy for them. They're about to die, and suddenly somebody's gonna pick them up and give them a new chance, inhale their artificial breathing, some kind of transfusion into their veins, and they can keep breathing. What would kill another party, I fear that in the eyes of their voters, it will be as if profit to them, that maybe those who had fled to Andrej Babiš will return to them and that they might be able to strengthen again. And finally, third. I think the great danger is that we are actually witnessing a direct transmission of some sort of collapse of democratic political culture. It's just something that's forbidden that's been taboo, at least at national level. At lower levels, there we have seen this quite often. In southern Bohemia, Jiří Zimola ruled with communists for four years. We have witnessed somewhere that the People's Party was in coalition with the Communists. No heaven has opened to devour them, nothing like that has happened. But here at national level, where the fates of the Czech country and its citizens are governed and decided, that is the first time, and that is the worse. The question is whether the return to the totalitarianism we fear will come and be as it was then. I don't think so, definitely. I don't think so. The dialectic spiral they taught us can, unfortunately, be applied and the totalitarianism can return in some other form. In the form of Babiš totalitarianism, it will stand as a company and will manage here as Mr. Babiš in his businesses. You suffocate the competition, we spray it with a roundup, right? Or it'll be totalitarian green, which you're also opening the door, you've also contacted them to promote your business intentions in Agrofert. No chemist has had any problems for the past five years since you were in the government. No leak of any liquids, no one ever protested it. They're all quiet, silent, because they got a fat reward, they got the EIA for money, they got the Sumava to play. That's the third time I've said that here. And it's just like that. Or some other activists. Rainbows, I don't know what else everyone... If the power might be lying on the ground, why wouldn't they pick it up in some messy state? So that's the first part of my show. Here I would like to warn everyone who has so far hesitated, who doesn't know, or maybe in some way are forced to make their choice to reconsider, all of this has been considered, whether in the Yes movement or in social democracy. Communists, they're in charge, I'm not turning to them. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a look at the government's programming statement, which we have received pretty tricolor tied up, and I would like to comment on some of this, because it seems to me that it is necessary for me to comment on them. You want to start reform of the state, here you write on one of the points of the introduction behind which is signed by Andrej Babiš. Well, watch it. Reforming something that works here is always a big problem. So be careful not to overdo it. And also, please, don't take this as a helper of State Reconstruction! That could be threatening with some kind of complete collapse. [[18.00 hours]] I will immediately skip to another very important topic for me, which is traffic. I already mentioned the EIA here. You're stuck here, as you speed up the construction process, how many dozens or hundreds of kilometers of highways you're gonna build here, and how much money you're gonna make for it. In doing so, it was you, Mr Babiš, and his loyal collaborator, Minister Brabec, who pushed through the Act on Impact Assessment, the famous EIA, which will still allow environmental activists to block construction processes in our infrastructure transport constructions very effectively. You conjure up bypasses, well, but you rejected a proposal that would make it easier to enforce them. And then there's the PPP, the public-private partnership. This is a good idea, not yet tested in this large volume in our country, so far everything has collapsed, what individual governments have been trying to do here. I'm okay with the fact that the state has decided to build the D4 motorway in the form of PPP, okay. But then I read here that in this chapter you're also counting on building the D3 motorway in the form of a public-private partnership. It's a wake-up call. That's what I want all of them - if there's any South Bohemia, I don't know, there's an ex-South Bohemia, Minister Vojtěch. Minister, if you still have any ties to South Čechy, please prevent it from being built for state money, and no public-private partnership here, please don't allow it. Then there's culture. Well, I don't really want to comment on culture. I'm sure the Minister can hear me. So far, there has always been some mention of our South Bohemia problem in the chateau garden in Český Krumlov. But I understand that you're dealing with the world-class questions of our country, of all Europe and of the universe, so you're probably not that interested in that turn in Krumlov. But I'd like the Minister to comment on this as soon as possible, so we know where we stand. Part of my critical performance has already been mentioned by the President. Well, I can agree with him on that. He mentioned a very vague point in your government statement regarding energy. It's really bad here, I've got to make a very negative assessment. You're quite vaguely writing about the need to start building. Prime Minister Babiš mentioned here that the real Temelín must be built that it should have been built a long time ago. [[build]] [[Prime Minister Dukovany.]] But I remember - no, you said Temelín. Temelín, you said! [[Prime Minister Dukovany.]] But we're not gonna argue here. You guys canceled the Temelín tender, that's what it was! So now the whole chance is wasted, the team of experts who still remember what it means to build, which doesn't just build on computers, but who can climb into the mud construction site in rubber bands and actually drive the workers there. So I'm blaming you. I think you should review the chapter on energy significantly, Prime Minister! I'm getting close to the end, but I still have my favorite environment left. And here I have to say, right now, the preamble to the chapter on the environment is something that hits the eye. It's a crystalline formal promise where you say you want to keep nature here so diverse, beautiful, and hand it over to our children in better shape than you've taken over. You're not gonna make it! Sumava is already drying up, and now, on top of everything else, the crusty tree eats all the possible forests in Moravia. No one knows what's gonna happen. What's the better condition, maybe Mr. Babiš or Mr. Brabec knows, but it's certainly not what you're really pushing our nature to do. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another topic that concerns drought and the fight against drought. I have one positive thing to say. I watched carefully what Mr. Babiš said, and I noticed that he mentioned the need to build tanks. Five billion cc's are going to fall, of which about two-thirds of them are holding large artificial tanks. If we want to increase it, improve it and keep it up to date for the nearest time in case of an emergency here, we need to create some new tanks, at least to protect them so that they can be built without any major problems. As far as waste is concerned, of course, you are promising the Waste Act here. In the meantime, you have approved the deadline for ending landfilling in 2024 and so far I see no effective step towards creating this law. Perhaps you want to implement again some European Commission regulation on fighting by banning lemonade straws, teaspoons for coffee and ear pickings to reduce the surface of those parts of the ocean of filthy plastics. In fact, I don't know how many, 80 percent of these plastics are flowing from continents where people have no idea about any order. There's one more thing I have to say. You here want to meet the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement. That's cold in my back. It's like you've wanted to rule for a hundred years. Because the Paris Agreement is for a hundred years. Well, then, our republic, God save us! He's so extensive in your program, and there's so many promises that maybe a hundred years wouldn't be enough. You're committed to making protected territories a kind of genetic bank. Well, that's just ridiculous! Tell that to all the Šumavák that you want to have a genetic bank out of her for the future when you let everything dry out there. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm coming to an end with my speech. Of course, like my colleagues, from the Civil Democratic Party, I will not support the government's vote of confidence. I will vote against the proposal. What else can you expect from me than opposition work, so that I try to question all the activist proposals in the field of environmental protection with which Minister Brabec will come to us. At least in the next three and a half years, or at least in the time that's being measured for us here in the House, I'll have something to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u95	Thank you, too. Before I invite another speaker, President Faltýnek came forward with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u96	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a procedural proposal on behalf of our parliamentary club, so that we can continue to act after 21st and 24th hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u97	Thank you for the suggestion. It is indeed a procedural proposal that can be made like this. I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. There's an application for a check-out, so I'll check you out. Please sign up with your cards again. For those who come into the hall, we will vote on whether we will continue the negotiations today and after 21st and 24th o'clock. Twenty-three? Twenty-four.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u98	Allow me to repeat the proposal - to act after 21st and 24th o'clock. [[He's leaving the speaker's desk, and he's coming back:]] And they voted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u99	I think they're all here, so I'm taking vote number three, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 3, 160 Members were enrolled, for 125, against 11. The proposal was adopted, so we will continue today after 21st or 24th hour. I thank you and we will continue the debate. So, please, Mr Válek Member. [[18.10 hours]] I will ask the outgoing Members to do so quietly or to move the phone calls somewhere outside the Chamber. There's really a lot of noise here, and we can't continue the debate. I know we have enough time for her now, but I would still ask for peace in the O.R. so we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u100	All right, ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna keep you down. [[Very loud.]] Thank you. [[Weak applause and laughter in the hall.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, that I'm... but as a college tutor, I'm used to naughty students in late classes, so I'm sorry. I hope I didn't offend anyone. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] No, the physical punishments are forbidden. Ladies and gentlemen, I belong to that group of MPs who are novices here. I'm not a boy, which I'm sorry, and I envy pirates. However, youth on the spirit, age on the body, I had a taste of reading the electoral program or the government's programming statement, and I loved it. But until then, before I read other program statements from other governments that are basically exactly the same. I don't think there's any other way to write that program statement. So I calmed down and began reading it in detail and listening carefully to the speeches today. And it's 2018. In the opening speech of the Prime Minister, Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk was remembered, and at that moment I realized that the fatal moments that a person was experiencing were fatal moments only backwards. The moment he experiences them, he doesn't really know it's a fatal moment. At that point, he feels that life is going on around him, that nothing's really going on, and then, when he looks back, he finds out it was a fatal moment. I don't think those who were in Munich signing the deal back then thought it was such a fatal moment. And similar moments in history, not only of our nation, but in general, are cyclically repeated. And I firmly believe, and I hope, that I am not involved in a fatal moment, even if some clues might suggest it. We have the year 2018, the year 1948, when the candidate also remembered Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk. The then candidate Klement Gottwald remembered this president as moral authority, and then, in March of that year, wept over his son's grave with the words "Oh, dear Jen." We all know what happened next. One hundred and ninety killed in political trials, executed, shot, I don't know what they were doing to them, what the Gottwaldův government did to them. And from the moral authority and dear Jen, it became a beast that had to be removed from our square and destroyed by the statues. Yes, that was a Communist party other than the communist one today, and I'm aware of it and I'm not comparing it, so I wouldn't be... I'm aware of that. However, I firmly believe that this development will not go the same way. Which is why I'd rather be centered on that election program I actually read. And while I understand that this government is built on the solid pillars of the Left and Communist Party, I was fascinated by the third page: We want the availability of high-speed Internet everywhere. I really can't imagine how high-speed Internet access can be achieved on Sněžka, in the mines, in the tunnel. Well, there's a way. I believe you can command wind and rain because they've tried it in the last 45 years. And now that we have the support again, albeit others, but also the Communist Party, that the government hopes that the wind will be blown, the rain will come. However, I would have urged some sort of sober vision of the plans, and that is why I will be able to reach health care by jumping. I must say that we cannot disagree with the fact that we want a high-quality, modern and financially stable public service for citizens and that the health sector must respond to today's threats. I think that only a crazy government would write that it does not want a high-quality, modern and financially stable public service, but that it wants a low-quality, unmodern and financially unstable public service for citizens and that health care must not respond to today's threats. Then I could go on. But on the second page, I'm reading how we want to improve the student education. How we want to make it clear what doctors can do to you. How we want to make it clear what an alumni can do. How we want to ensure that faculty hospitals and directly controlled hospitals work well. And how we want to do everything we can to make medical education work better than before. And I'm a doctor. That's a few of us here. And I'm a patient. We all are. Many of us don't know, but we're all patients. And so, of course, whatever the government is, I want it to be that way and work. And I believe the government will do its best. I want to believe it because I'm the patient. I have no choice but to hope and believe. And as an MP, I can promise to do my best to help. But as a scientist, I have to rely on facts. So what are the facts? The government has been working intensively with enviable ant diligence for a year on a decree where it will be clearly written, what are the competencies of graduates of medical faculties. So I said, "kampak did the decree go?" Where did the devils put her? What did the bad guys do to her? They didn't hide, they got lost. [[With laughter, weak laughter, even in the hall.]] The same government, with the same diligence, ant deployment and denial of any other activities other than work, is working to produce educational programs in the decree. I do not know if you are aware of this, colleagues, but not one hospital, not the smallest hospital, but not even the largest hospital currently has accreditation under the law approved by this Parliament and the last government more than a year ago, accepted more than two years ago, which came out last year. And I ask, when will the decree come out, where will at least part of the educational programs be so that hospitals can accredit? Because the graduates of medical schools, who in July of this year... today is the 13th? [[From the O.R. on the 11th.]] On the 11th. So in July, that's 11 days ago, they boarded, so none of them could get into an accredited workplace. Why? Yes, that's right, that's right - because even after a year, the Ministry hasn't issued a decree where the education programs are so that hospitals can apply for accreditation. Then we have a second concrete objection that I have. And it's not really, it's not criticism. This is a constructive concrete objection. And then there's the third. We want those high-quality faculty hospital directors. I firmly believe that the hand in choosing those high-quality directors will be much happier than the choice of Director Bulovka. I firmly believe that hand will be more careful and more successful. I'm positive. I'm optimistic and old. Therefore, because of our nation, my fellow citizens, my friends, colleagues, children, I wish my family all the best for this government. I wish her hard work. I'll watch her if I don't give her my vote. And don't be angry, my friends. You really didn't mean that, did you, Mr. Chairman? What a clever man! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u101	Thank you, too. I ask you to address the other Members through me. And I have here a point of fact from Mr Kasal. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u102	Thank you, Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would just like to say one thing to Professor Válek, through Mr President. The fact that decrees were not written was not a government problem. Unfortunately, this was the problem of professional companies that were unable to choose an accreditation committee and they were not fulfilled. And those individual accreditation committees were supposed to prepare the fillings. So then, when the filling was ready, there could be a decree. But in a number of fields, these accreditation committees were unable to establish themselves within a number of months. So just to have a moment of fun.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u103	Thank you for the point of fact and I have here, with Mr Válek's factual remark, which will respond. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u104	I must respond through the President and speak quietly. I'd apologize if you were right. But the truth is the truth of the Jerevan radio. It's kind of half-truth. Who's gonna appoint those members of the accreditation board? Professional companies? No, no, the Department of Health. The Minister for Health shall appoint members of the Accreditation Commissions. And it's true, he's naming them for drafts of medical faculties, professional companies and faculty hospitals. And I guarantee you, as former President of the Radiological Society, that I sent proposals on members of the Radiology Accreditation Commission three and a half years ago. It took a year and a half for the Ministry of Health to sink into power, and those accreditation committees were named. From the year before last, from November onwards, I draw attention to the fact that we end up as members of the accreditation committees and that it is five minutes after the 12th time to appoint members of the new accreditation committees. And that's what I'm able to prove, and I'm going to write exactly on Facebook, on my profile, on individual steps as this happened. I am not criticizing the current Minister of Health at all. He's just involved. I'm criticizing the entire department of the last two governments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u105	Thank you for your point of view. I do not have any further factual remarks, so I will invite another party to the debate, which is Mr Feri. And I'll ask for peace on the left side of the hall. There's still a discussion going on. If you need to discuss anything other than a vote of confidence to the government, please move to the machine gun. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government present - I hope you're all here. I don't want to repeat myself. Much has been said here. And even then, the speech wouldn't be special. I mean, for example, a comparison with the speech that Mrs Němcová gave. That was really exclusive. Or maybe even a colleague of Mr. Válek, I commend him directly. Let's get to the point. Programming statements, not only here, programming statements as such are affected by one very significant flaw, namely that they are by their very nature general. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to ask the new Minister, in my case, because I am a member of the Constitutional Legal Committee, i.e. my Gesture Minister, the Minister of Justice, for certain details. I've had that intention in my interpellations. That was before she decided Taťána didn't want to do it. And she didn't find out about the interpellation. So I would like to take this opportunity, when the Minister is here, if he voluntarily, involuntarily, must be here with regard to the resolution. And I'd like to ask you a few questions, a couple of things that are already on the agenda, or we'll be dealing with them very soon, and they're coming out of that very programming statement. Minister - I see he's already preparing his pen, great. The first question concerns the amendment to the insolvency law. The Prime Minister paid great attention to this in his speech. Mr. Former Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán also. He had a great deal on his mind, and that's a good thing, the fates of debtors who are in a debt trap and can't get out of it and who according to the explanatory report of this amendment is 600,000, God knows how much. But the number of 863,000 pending execution procedures is, I think, widely known. Well, what happened to the Insolvency Act amendment? She came here, Minister Pelikán tried very agilely to defend her, but he couldn't. There has already been an amendment that alleviates it, or that alleviates the amendment itself. What's going on? The key paradigm, or the thing that we have to figure out at the very beginning, is how we want to be cross-verbal and how long we want to be. Whether we want to deal with this situation at the cost of major effects on creditors or whether we want to find a compromise solution. This means, in this subject in the programming statement, it says very vaguely that there is an attempt to remove the 30% of the current limit. But in what way? Humiliate her? Humiliate the absolute statement from 30 to 15, to 10, or follow the path chosen by colleagues from the ANO movement? Does that mean removing the line at the beginning and then leaving the insolvency courts to do something about it? I guess I don't have to mention the slightest difference in judging these things. This means an insolvency court in Ostrava can, without a doubt, decide completely differently than an insolvency court in Ústí nad Labem. And it's hard to tell what the interpretation will be. For example, the effort that can be demanded fairly from the debtor. So this is a technical question. From a procedural point of view, I am interested in how he can handle it further. At present, the amendment to the insolvency law is in that state when we deal with it on the subcommittee - unfortunately, it had to be adjourned until September, because it will not be held tomorrow, there are no Members, although I think we will stay here until tomorrow. Will the proposal that is here be a bearing platform, or will a comprehensive amendment be prepared? How will the individual parliamentary amendments tabled to the subcommittee be incorporated and come up with something comprehensive? This is something that is very important, and given that it is contained in the programming declaration, I expect it to be one of the priorities. Another matter is local jurisdiction or territoriality of executors. This is a matter on which the executive chamber has taken a clear position as such. That means they want her, at least that significant part of them, even though, of course, some different voices, dissenting voices sound. And now the question is, how do you deal with it? Solve parallel insolvency and execution? Are these two legislations simultaneously applicable? Or solve one and then deal with the other? From a technical point of view, I wonder how this will be handled. If the model is Slovak to us, if local jurisdiction is bound to county courts, or if it is bound to regional courts. And maybe more. Because he showed up here two or three days ago from fellow pirát, his own design, his own rack, if he can serve as, say, the platform on which this will be dealt with. If this goes on and then it's going to go on in some way. Or if the Ministry comes up with a proposal of its own. So this concerns insolvency law and executions. Another matter is the process amendment. It wouldn't be a government programming statement if law and justice didn't aim to speed up management. And that's what I think everyone wants. And now the question is, how does it happen? On this point, I would like to ask the new Minister of Justice what his position is on the substantive intention which has been developed, which is subject to a rather rigorous assessment and an active debate. And if it's a priority. Because the need to come up with a new code keeps repeating itself here all the time, but no one has ever been able to finish it. So whether we're going to have a civil order of trial or whether we're going to have to make do with more than a hundred times the current OSŘ. So the thing that struck me very surprised was the diction of then Minister Pelikán of the parties to the state prosecutor's office. He spoke very harshly about overcompetence. Which I don't know if there was any, let's say, momentary excitement, or if it's actually going to be approached in the sense of a very radical recompense. So I am asking whether, or when, and beyond, if this is the main priority, the amendment to the State Prosecutor's Act will be prepared, and if the Minister of Justice could list some essential elements, even with regard to the regulation in other legal systems. [[18.30 hours]] This is also related to the White Paper of Justice, which was an ambitious project by Minister of Justice Pelikán, but which was never completed. He came up with a white book, that is. with some ideal framework, as he imagines, or as the Ministry and the Government imagine justice in the Czech Republic, but unfortunately, in 2016, it sort of fell asleep. Does that mean we're supposed to take the White Book of Justice for some kind of ideal way out or for something that's going to continue to work with? Or is the project completely dead, completely dysfunctional, and everything will be reworked? This is also related to the amendment of the Law on Courts and Judges, because you may have also noticed the situation of the judges and the regulation of the laws... [[He's turning to the government bench.]] I just want the minister to listen, my colleague. Don't take that at all at a disadvantage and in person. So if he intends to regulate this by law, or according to him, this situation is sufficient. The last question was answered by the Minister of Justice, but I would also ask him to confirm and confirm the matter here at the House plenary, and this concerns cooperation with legal professions and chambers. We could take it for granted that the Minister of Justice will listen to judges, notaries, executors, lawyers, but I do not want to take this for granted after unfortunate experience. That means, Minister of Justice, will you be actively listening to these chambers and these professions and it will be really real that you want to hear them and not send them something to comment on and have a week to do it? I believe that will be the case. Thank you in advance for your answer, of course. In conclusion. Of course, we will not support the government, but I would like to congratulate the Minister, I believe that cooperation with the Constitutional Committee will be social. We're showing him, I think, colleagues from the opposition, some protection, or we're holding up some protection, I think he's a little surprised himself to be sitting here. And I believe he'll answer those questions, I think it would be a pretty decent and solid performance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u107	Thank you, too. I don't know if the Minister... The Minister will want to respond with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u108	Beautiful late afternoon, honourable Members. I'm just going to answer in a very general way. Of course, I am prepared for the maximum possible cooperation with the constitutional law committee on all those issues relating to the individual topics that have been raised here, whether it be an amendment to the insolvency law, the issue of the civil court order, on which, by the way, the work is very intensively worked, and it is not that the work is therefore worthwhile. As far as cooperation with individual legal professions is concerned, I have basically already announced this, and I am fully prepared to do so. But cooperation does not, of course, mean that this will be a dictation on the part of the individual legal professions. This means a fair debate with both the constitutional and individual legal professions, whether it be judges, prosecutors, lawyers, notaries, executors, insolvency administrators. I think that maybe for the purposes of responding to those questions, that might be all, I don't want to make it an interpelation. If there's any interest, I'm prepared to answer those questions, of course. But I don't think that's the point of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u109	Thank you. I'll point out that the interpelations are scheduled for the meeting tomorrow. I will now ask Mr Liberty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u110	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. I have been a Member for a while, so I know that no speech from a Member on this counter will change the pre-arranged conclusions and opinions. From this point of view, all these discussions are actually pointless. On the other hand, it is true that some things must be heard on the air simply because it is not possible to speak to it, even though I know it is Donkichota, even though I know it is a struggle with windmills, but don Quijote did it and I do it too and we all will. We're in a situation where we have a party that, as its main electoral agenda, has a fight against corruption. That sounds lovely. Unfortunately, the problem is that he's making excuses in all situations and he's referring backwards to some corruption in the past. Do you know what a major fight against corruption is? Don't do it samý. And I'm afraid there's no situation on our political table. Offers and exchanges, exchanges of positions, prebend runs like a running belt, and it's an example for everyone that fighting corruption is just a concept, just a word that has no content content content. I say again, everyone has to start apart, and the government and the party will fight corruption right then, if it doesn't allow it on its own and it doesn't. This is a matter of fundamental importance, which I simply want to hear here, because the whole principle of this government is actually built on nonsense! Look at the current stories. Whatever the stories of hospitals and all others, the fight against corruption is that from time to time I take someone away in handcuffs and corruption continues happily, because I actually support it in my philosophy. The second thing I know is that no government program says basically anything about what's going to happen. The government program is always written in such a way that it is very shallow, very shallow to allow for double interpretation, and so we simply learn in the government program that the crucial thing is that young people will receive a two-year driving license. It is one particular thing that I have noted, and I will monitor it if the government is able to enforce such a fundamental thing. And the third problem I want to talk about is the health problem, because that's the thing I understand. And I had the opportunity to have many discussions and consultations with the current minister, who was also the previous minister, and I must say that many of his opinions surprised me very pleasantly and that working with him seemed to be good, perhaps excellent. Hey, we've been through the coalition negotiations, we've let the Communists into the government, and all the views that the Minister has defended have vanished. There may be a rumor that we're going to deal with the issue of aids, that's all there is, but the fundamentals have disappeared. The Minister, as well as I, knows very well that health care is a problem around the world and that it is a problem of funds. If we have in the government program a solution to what we do in all sorts of small things or even stronger things, and it does not say how we will have the means, it is about nothing. We talked very strongly with the Minister about how to link the quality of health care and its price, how to get more resources - and, behold, all of these things disappeared simply because there was some coalition agreement and the communists made a point. Is that a coalition principle or a corruption principle? I don't know. But I know very well that if we leave the search for ways to raise more funds to health care, we have no solution to the health sector, because those funds simply won't. There will be fewer and fewer, because health care will become more expensive and more expensive, so it is throughout the world, and we will become increasingly sicker and sicker. As Professor Válek said, I'm also a doctor, I'm also a patient in anticipation, so I'd like it to work in some form. [[18.40 hours]] What happened to the idea of introducing some kind of extra-insurance option that will bring more money, increasing the solidarity of the rich with the poor, because private insurance brings money into the system, and paradoxically, it brings the money to those who are poor in quotation marks? Not a word! Just talking about what we're gonna do is absolutely fundamental. And now, as a college educator, I have to say, it's a great idea that we're gonna take more students to medical schools. It's more expensive than how much money is set aside. The money there isn't enough. And let me just remind you that the effect of this decision will occur in eight to ten years. We have a shortage of doctors now, at this point. And if you look at the tree of doctors' life, you'll see that it's going to get violently and radically worse. Whether they are practical doctors, whether they are practical doctors for children and adolescents, which we have cancelled, they are so old that their retirement is more than just outside the door. It's something that sounds very good again, but it doesn't actually solve anything at this point. My question is, what happens tomorrow, what happens the day after tomorrow? It is clear that health care is a matter to be planned for not one term. The planning period must be at least ten years, otherwise there's no point. And it's also true that if the government wants to push for something in health care, it has to do it the next day after it's started, it has to have it ready, because it's always going to be a little unpopular, and every time the government doesn't do it right away, it suddenly starts to see the next election, and it's going to be able to promise and not do it again, and then it's never gonna happen again. That's a problem I have that I can define. And when I read it in those other areas, I see the Communist Party's finger all over the place promoting its ideas. I'm a great memorial. I know the Communist Party from my diapers, and I know how it works. I know how to say "we nationalize, but not small businessmen and middle entrepreneurs, we don't touch them." Then they're all nationalized!. Now it's the first steps. And if you keep doing that, we're gonna have that problem again in a minute, when my kids are gonna ask me what I did to make sure it doesn't happen like that. I know I talk for nothing. I know I speak in the voice of a caller in the desert. But I'm telling you, seriously consider what you're creating as a coalition. Consider very much the strength you will have in it. Consider very much whether you will be able to do something in any form that is promising, prospective for this country, beneficial for us, for our citizens and beneficial in some way for you. Because trust me, time doesn't measure in the short term. Time then measures results. Time doesn't remember if anyone was a decent person. He remembers what he did wrong. I don't want to do the wrong thing, which is why I'm not going to vote for this coalition. Again, I speak for nothing, but I considered it my duty to say it simply because I know the development, I know the development, what happens when the communists get to power. They're called a little different, but philosophy in their heads is exactly the same! Just at this point, they don't have guns, so it's not about them going out on the streets with armed militias. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u111	Thank you, too. Before I call on another speaker in a proper debate, I have been given priority rights by President Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u112	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me, too, comment on the proposal put forward for trust to the other government of Andrej Babiš. First, I will be based on the programming statement of the second government of Andrej Babiš, which says that the government will continue to fight corruption in all areas, to coordinate this fight systemically, to evaluate the effectiveness of anti-corruption measures already taken in practice and to propose appropriate changes and additions. I think that the government should first of all go from words to actions. If we look at this list of how the government has so far had the opportunity to appear in anti-corruption measures, first of all, we have a nomination law. The Nomination Act of the ANO movement has sunk. Then we partially managed to force him to at least present his version, which they castrated, so they deleted part of it, which concerned nominations for supervisory boards. Apparently, it's a hidden doorway so coalition-non-cooling communist partners can nominate themselves to those supervisory councils. Secondly, it is the publication of ČEZ's contracts. We have submitted the publication of ČEZ's contracts. The Prime Minister has supported him several times in the media that they will vote in favour of this because the previous four years, when he sat in government with Sobotka, he said it was corrupt ČSSD and that they were prevented by all anti-corruption laws. So we're sitting here, 22 votes we're offering for all the anti-corruption laws you put forward. But you haven't brought anything in all this time. So at least the publication of the ČEZ contracts we submitted, we worked it out for you, it's ready. So what did you guys do? Well, you blocked it. On the committee, you used obstruction to block the committee's discussion until it was discussed on another committee, and on the other committee, you blocked it until the Constitutional Court discusses the law on the register of contracts. So this is how you blocked the publication of ČEZ's contracts. Moreover, at a time when it is even considered that the Czech Republic would pay hundreds of billions of crowns to build some other blocks of nuclear power plants. Thirdly, you voted against a law that would limit the accumulation of functions that we have prepared here with my colleague Vildumetzová, who has been checked by Professor Válková. Mr. Faltýnek said he was a legal bastard. So you voted against this, although in the program you said you wouldn't accumulate functions, and in the media you acted by refusing to combine functions, that you wouldn't have captains and other fully relaxed people. So this accumulation is happening anyway. And you blocked the law. You told us your secretary, Mrs. Malá, would present it. She's probably not gonna do anything anymore. Fourth, you blocked the clicking budget with the state's invoices. Even Mr Kalousek, who you criticize so much, voted in favour of it, while you voted against being the state's clicking budget. These are the actions you should prove that you really want to fight corruption. Fifthly, you have promoted a large number of Vice-Presidents in the Chamber of Deputies to make 180 of the 200 people chairman of the committee or vice-chairman of the committee or chairman of the subcommittee. So the functions... We have more functions here... Only the Senate is comparable to one who has such a percentage of officials. So let's give a smaller percentage of those officials, reduce the number of committees so that they are capable of action, and give all Members a greater basic salary so that they do not have to chase behind these pidifunctions. Sixthly, you voted against slowing down the wage growth of Members. You have preferred to approve that there will be holidays and that all items will be deleted from the agenda so as not to vote on the proposal to slow down the rise in the salaries of the constitutional officials you yourself have tabled. You have, of course, presented him as true populists in order to show that there is a good government and an evil Chamber of Deputies that will reject the proposal. But we said we'd support him, so you had to back out of it, and you just... you know, now you're gonna pull him off somehow, or we're gonna pretend he was never here, and we're never gonna put him on the agenda again, or I don't know what's gonna happen to him. So the salaries of constitutional officials will rise by another five, ten thousand. Finally, in the seventh time, you voted on the committee to protect the right to information, because that is the basis for citizens to be able to control the state, so they must have an effective right to information. And unfortunately, everything has been discussed on the committee, so your votes have been blocked so that the citizen can finally get the right he has guaranteed by the Constitution, and today he has to file administrative lawsuits, 14 times and no information can be obtained. [[18.50 hours]] So to get back to what you have presented in the programming statement that you will continue to fight corruption in all areas. Well, if it's gonna be the same fight against corruption you've been doing so far that you've actually been playing anti-corruption fighters, we've got something to look forward to! I have now opened up a program for the next government meeting, and I am incredibly amused that your government is proposing that Andrej Babiš be the head of the Anti-Corruption Council of the Government. Well, if the Justice Department didn't work out, at least he'll be chairman of the Anti-Corruption Council of the Government. Criminally prosecuted Prime Minister Chairman of the Anti-Corruption Council of the Government. Well, like the moment someone can even reach that stage, that he's really capable of suggesting himself to the Minister of Justice when he's criminally prosecuted to have those prosecutors under him, he's in a huge conflict of interest, which I really think is missing the very basic political competence. This, after all, is consistent with how and how long this government was created. If we add to this the strange business history that Mr Kmenta has so well documented in this book - I highly recommend to all members of the ANO movement, if you are intoxicated, it is an excellent sobering material, this book - so all of these circumstances lead us to the fact that we cannot express our confidence in this government. [[shows the book Boss Babiš]] The fact that there's still some business with the Communists - I was wondering if there's any unwritten deals about the Communists' trades. That Mr Filip will remain on the Supervisory Board, etc. That could probably be lit up here. And what's actually the worst and most dangerous thing about the onset of oligarchy in the Czech Republic is the link to the media. Because the media was always supposed to be the watchdog of democracy. And if we look at what the Mladá fronta is doing today and Lidové noviny, which is the media with an excellent reputation and now owned by Andrej Babiš, it's a real disappointment. Of course, there are journalists who have a reputation there, but the editorial work and the very subtle way that the content of these media is being manipulated so that it is actually deflecting from all standards of journalistic ethics and good journalistic work is really very important. Today, trust or distrust is approved by the government. So of course it deals with the headlines of standard newspapers, Law, even Mr. Bakala writes about it, Hospodářské noviny. [[He's showing the journals.]] Standard big story. Well, what's the Young Front dealing with today? Well the Young Front today, owned by you, Mr. Babiš, owned by you Young Front today, solves the best recipes for pickles! [[Laughter and applause from the Pirates' desks.]] Pickled vegetables. So please, if the public's wondering what's going on today, the best recipes for pickles, pickles, pickles, celery, zucchini, ajvar and pesto. So this is the main message in the Young Front today. And right below it is a propaganda article on how we have a great Prime Minister, that very quickly he called off the Minister of Justice, that he solved it very quickly and appointed another great expert there. While all other media criticize and give space to the opposition, there is actually a minimum space for opposition. The only one who has room there is Mr. Klaus, the former president who writes: The return of the Communists to power? Oh, no. And he has an interview with Mr. Plesl, editor-in-chief of MF DNES, which is one of the strangest figures and the slowest genre of Czech journalism. So in this way there is a very fine manipulation of media space, which is extremely dangerous, because of course it is not viewed in such a trivial way as it was in the Red Law, where you read it, and it was, of course, very funny how there was a propaganda dictionary, comrades, etc. The manipulation here is very delicate and the more difficult it is for citizens, especially for older ones who grew up under communism and were accustomed really only to the brutal propaganda, where it became simple, because one thing was said at school, one thing was said at home, so these citizens are really very hard to decode, that it is not true what the Lidové noviny says, that here they have written an independent journal, founded 1893. And it's a diary owned by Mr. Babiš through a trust fund! So why do they say they're an independent diary when they own the biggest oligarch in the country, plus the Prime Minister? This is simply misleading people, misleading consumers, and it is so dangerous at the current historical stage of oligarchy that the Czech Republic is going through. Because after the communist structures fell apart, there were no big players. And of course, we have to go through this, just as other big states have been through it. And some of them haven't quite recovered from it yet, like Italy. So the distinction between high-quality and low-quality journalism, the one Mr. Babiš owns, between Babišův's media, that's really heaven and bagpipes, how it should look. And that's the biggest danger. Dear colleagues from the YES movement, it may come to you once you become uncomfortable, so there will be an article about you in the Lidové noviny on the front page. Maybe they'll destroy you this way too. So she'll be the thing, the spindoctoring will actually come back. I think it's very dangerous that we're entering now through the fading journalism that two major journals in this country are owned by Mr. Babiš, until actually a new normalization, when a very creepy way indoctrinates society, what it is to think. And that even big ones, when I say it ugly, shit like the appointment of Mrs. Malá and her appeal, are actually presented as the success of a government that is capable of action and can solve everything very quickly. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] And now I come to the conclusion of my speech. What is the role of pirát in this I would say a turning point in Czech history? We will be what we promised, the guard dog of Czech democracy, we will control the government. We will be constructive opposition, as I have also told Mr Faltýnek, that we will support the bills that you will put forward, following the fact that we will force you to do so, such as the nomination law which I hope will come to the Chamber of Deputies once you have blocked ours. But we will not let you harm freedom and democracy in this country by an inch. And we've already historically proven that by acting against the KSČM getting the newsrooms on the Supervisory Boards. By acting against Mr. Babiš's application of immunity. By acting against the case of Agrofert and the unauthorized subsidies received by this company. By performing and intervening at the President's office so as not to entrust Mr Babiš with the duties of Minister of Justice. With all this, we have proved that we can do this role, and we will do it for the next three years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u113	I, too, thank you, and now please Mr Baxa, who is duly signed up for the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u114	Good evening, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues and dear colleagues. I am a new Member here, and I do not know the way in which the previous meeting was conducted to express confidence to the government, except for the January meeting, which we ourselves knew was merely a wannabe attempt, and which is not the real attempt to create a stable government. And so I expected that today's negotiations would take place on the basis of all the documents needed to do so. We received one document, it is a programme statement of the Government of the Czech Republic, which I will comment on later. But it seems to me, or rather, I'm convinced that we're missing the next document here. And that is the agreement between the ANO movement and the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. What they call a tolerance patent. We don't have it here in official form, we can read some version on the Internet about what's in it, but we certainly don't know what we definitely don't know is whether this, this agreement between the KSČM and the YES movement is really what this government is supposed to be about. Whether there are any other, perhaps written, perhaps unwritten agreements that can fundamentally affect the way this government is supposed to function. [[19.00 hours]] I would point out two things concerning the Ministry of Culture, on which I would like to comment not only as chairman of the subcommittee on culture, but also as a person who has long-term monitoring of the field of culture. One part of the government's declaration is a paragraph concerning investment support for various godly and cultural projects. And so here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote the last sentence of the investment paragraph, which reads: "We will currently support cultural heritage care projects such as the rescue of Terezín monument reserve, the revitalization of the Imperial Spa in Karlovy Vary or the Museum of Totality in Uherské Hradiště." We have a very serious discussion here shortly after noon about how your government will reflect the past, how it will reflect the fact that the Communist Party members are those who refuse to reflect the past, especially the processes of the 1950s. And if I see in this official government statement that the government wants to invest in the Museum of Totalitarianism in Uherské Hradiště, I would like to ask publicly, Mr. Minister of Culture, Mr. Donate Staněk, whether you guarantee whether the government of the ANO movement with the support of the KSČM will actually invest in a project that reflects the very dark aspects of our past. Whether this government will create a monument that will show clearly and clearly the worst crimes that took place here in the 1950s. And I would really like to hear, Minister, whether you intend to observe this, whether you yourself, by virtue of your duties as a member of the Government and of the Minister, will support the creation of a memorial that will show how your party, without which your government would not have originated, behaved in the 1950s without any reflection. It is also related to the area of culture, which is actually directly concluded in the chapter relating to culture. The agenda of churches and religious societies will continue to be implemented by the Ministry of Culture of the Czech Republic with the exception of the payment of financial compensation and contributions to support their activities, which will be transferred to the Ministry of Finance. I suppose, then, Minister, that you will be treated as a member of the resort, which the Church and religious society belong to, with due regard for what these societies and these churches will want. It's important. You're fixing a resort that's mine. He is also in charge of the heritage of our state, which is associated with the history of the Catholic Church, with a number of sacral monuments. And somewhere in the air, just because we don't know what's in the tolerance patent and if the Communists don't accompany it to any unwritten conditions, it's how you, as a member of the government, stand up to the question of religious restitution. I was looking for a reference to church restitutions in the government's programming statement, in this official document. In the spring, this was a law intended to tax the compensation granted to the churches under the Equalisation Act and on the basis of which the funding of the churches would continue. Since the government of Andrej Babiš is supported by the Communists, I expected to find something in this document about church restitution. I didn't find anything. But my question is - isn't it part of the unofficial agreements on the formation of this government that you're going against church restitution? And I would like to quote another document here, which also happened to be received by a member of the KSČM, chairman of the budget committee, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, to which the representatives of the three most important church groups in our country have turned. This letter was signed by the Secretary General of the Czech Bishops' Conference Stanislav Přibyl, Secretary General of the Ecumenical Council of Churches Jan Vinš and Secretary of the Federation of Jewish Communities Tomáš Kraus. And to you, Minister Staněk, as the person responsible for the church agenda, I would like to quote from this letter: "As representatives of churches and religious societies operating in the Czech Republic, we consider it an obligation to tell you that we are a proposal" - equals the proposal for taxation of church institutions - seriously concerned. In our view, the proposal violates the fundamental principles of the rule of law, among others the principles of legal certainty, trust in the law, prohibition of the retroactive application of laws or legitimate expectations established by the law. We believe that the intention to tax financial compensation granted under the law is unconstitutional. As representatives of churches and religious societies operating in the Czech Republic, we feel obliged that the discussion associated with the draft law damages the good name of our institutions, which exist and selflessly operate for the benefit of the entire society. [[stress]] Even so, churches are portrayed as illegal elements, and a partial return of property is referred to as a thief. This artificially provokes another unnecessary social clash and divides the public. While the adoption of the law preceded twenty years of discussions between state power and religious societies, no one was discussing the intention to tax financial compensation with us, despite the fact that settlement agreements were concluded between individual religious communities and the State. Does this mean that it is the intention of the petitioners in power, unilaterally and without negotiating with the contractual partner to change the content of the contract? We see this tendency not to respect concluded treaties as an intervention in the free operation of churches and religious societies." By the way, through Mr President on this occasion, I would like to ask the President of the Committee on Budgets how she responded to this letter, how she coped with being approached by these institutions. Madam President is not here, but the Minister is here, so I would like to... [[President Vostra is present.]] It is. So I believe you'll answer me. I would like to hear from you, Minister, how you, as a member of the government, will stand up for the taxation of church restitution and how you will defend the legitimate legitimate interests of the churches and religious societies mentioned in this letter. I believe that the symbolic dimension of today's negotiations is completely inseparable. And the fact that we are talking about the return of the Communist Party's influence in the year when we commemorate the 100th anniversary of Czechoslovakia is very sad. It has been said here several times, but we must therefore ask ourselves clearly specific questions and want to hear clear answers. By the way, there's one more thing I can think of in that context. In the programme statement, in the part concerning education, there is also one subtle note in which it is mentioned that the government will deal with fair funding of public, private and church schools. So I would like to ask Minister Plaga, on this occasion, whether there is also a secret, non-public, unwritten oral agreement between the ANO movement and the Communist Party, whether church and private schools will be persecuted, behind this quote. After all, the Prime Minister wondered how many private schools we have in the Czech Republic, whether there are too many of them and whether they provide the proper activity. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many questions that raise government statements. But I think that at this point it should be made clear that the issues that we cannot read in these documents are perhaps more important, namely how much the YES movement has paid, how much social democracy has paid for the vote on trust in your government being supported by the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. And that is one of the key reasons why neither I nor the Civil Democratic Party can in any way support this probably emerging semi-communist government today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u115	Hello, good evening, esteemed colleagues. At this point, I'm taking the lead. It's my premiere, so I hope you'll be indulgent with me. On a proposal from my colleagues, I would like to ask the government to supplement its ranks with the Minister of the Interior and... the Minister of the Interior and Foreign Affairs. [[There is laughter in plenary.]] Now, I would like to call on Mr Ferjenčík to take the floor and prepare Mr Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u116	Thank you for the floor. I would like to briefly comment on the chapter of the State Finance and Finance Programme Statement. I was impressed by the sentence: "We promote a stable and predictable tax environment. Changes to the system of tax laws will be implemented only by a few aggregate amendments, with sufficient delay in effectiveness." This sentence in the context of last night's vote, when the amendment to tax laws was removed from the agenda, which means that the first reading will not happen now, which means that we will be prosecuting it at a better last minute in December and, worse, in February sometime, and we will cause total chaos in those companies that will have to adjust their accounts in response to those tax laws, so that's probably the weight of the programming statement. If you write that you want something, some stability, delays in efficiency, predictability, and then you'd rather go on vacation than vote the law in time, then that's pretty hard. [[Emotionally.]] [[19.10 hours]] Then it's less emotional. I would just like to draw the attention of the government to the priorities in the tax area and to finance at all - unfortunately, the Minister of Finance prefers to have fun, so I guess it doesn't make much sense to warn her, anyway I'll try, maybe she'll read it in the paperwork - that unfortunately tax revenues from legal entities are growing slower than the gross domestic product of the Czech Republic. In this area, the government is clearly failing, and especially with large players. While the government has deployed tax combines and tradesmen pay as floury, it is disguised, it doesn't look that way in income, because income from businessmen is humiliated by the amount of the CEOs, which are employees at the same time, and tax returns are then deducted in numbers, so in fact there are significantly higher revenues than in the aggregate tables. While revenues from businessmen are growing massively, legal entities are stagnating, there is only an increase of one per cent and is significantly smaller than economic growth. I think that is what the government should focus on, as well as on the problem of the profit drain, which can lead to the fact that we will never catch up with Western Europe. Then just a small thing that concerns a huge number of people has a huge impact on them, and especially social democracy should notice it. It says here that the government is committed to actively supporting working families with children through tax discounts. Here I would like to point out that tax discounts are quite decent today. The discount on the taxpayer is some CZK 24,000, so people with low income tax virtually doesn't pay income tax or quite minimum. So the moment we increase our discounts, like kids or something, the poorest people can't even get to raise their discounts, but since there are no discounts on social and health insurance, there's a high percentage of their income through these two taxes. The children's discount is only the middle class, and the poorest ones aren't. So I think that the government here should think about how to do this so that the poorest don't really pay a substantial share of their salary on taxes, which we often compensate them through social benefits, which is a complete gossip with the right hand behind the left ear. Finally, one chapter, chapter Education, Science and Research. There is the sentence "we will reduce the number of secondary education fields and effectively link their structure to the needs of the labour market." Ivan Bartoš mentioned it in his speech, but I must stress as much as he did that this is a very dangerous thinking. All those entrepreneurs lobbying for more places in the apprentices, for our educational system to spew as many people on the belt as possible, are logically lobbying for their interests. We can't blame them for that, but in terms of the economy of the state, it's a very short-sighted thinking. For two reasons. Firstly, we do not know what the needs of the labour market will be when the learners leave, or even industrialists. And secondly, in fact, we give these people a far worse perspective of application. After all, think about whether you want your children to go to an apprentice or a gymnast or some other school, and how you decide when you advise your children to study. Then when the government says we have to prepare the workers for the fabric, it feels like a very unfortunate approach. Here, I think the government should be very careful about how specifically it will implement this part of its programming statement. Last comment on the documents, my previous speaker, Mr. Baxa, mentioned it slightly. I have carefully studied the principles of coalition cooperation YES and ČSSD, which came out a while ago at the current time. cz. I checked the document that it was authentic, confirmed by my colleagues at the House. There are the insurance policies that the ČSSD negotiated so that the ANO movement couldn't do with them exactly what they wanted, which was quite a logical request from a minority partner. The most important insurance policy is that if the five ministers of the ČSSD resign, then all ministers for YES will resign, only that the ČSSD doesn't have the five ministers, so if those four resign, the government will normally continue to rule, no one in YES has to resign. I would just ask my colleagues from the ČSSD, almost rhetorically, if they considered the theoretical option well, that it is only used to give confidence to the government of Andrej Babiš, but that then, if they don't resolve the dispute about the Foreign Minister, they will unpack and no one will need them anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u117	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. With a point of fact, President Stanjura is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u118	Somehow the lines got thinner. I would also overlook this, however, if the Member asks questions in the debate to the minister present, who then escapes and is not here, the Minister of Culture, and does not answer, I must point out that according to the resolution in force, the entire government is supposed to be here all the time. And if the Minister of Culture were here, he wouldn't have run away and answered, I'd have missed the empty chairs, but I can't do this. Please, Mr Vice-President, set the record straight, align our negotiations with the current resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, have the Minister of Culture return and, as a decent person, let him answer the questions asked by Mr Baxa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u119	Mr President, the Minister of Culture apologized to me for going to the bathroom, so I think it was completely in line. He just got here. [[Voices from the O.R.]] The Prime Minister is here too, there's the Secretary of State and the Minister of the Interior, so the government is basically complete here at the moment. I give the floor to Mr Adamc, Mrs Krutáková will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u120	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I see that our government is camouflaged among the crowd. When I hear that whistling behind my back, I don't know if it's camouflage based on this sandot, but I admit it's disturbing me a little bit, the whistling. Let me say a few words about the government's programming statement. I think there have already been a lot of warnings about the connection with the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. I am not here to moralize any of the fellow Members present. I'm just going to say that the cards are dealt, the dice are cast, everyone is already determined, or they should be determined to stand up to the trust of the government, and it's a matter for each of us, how it fits with our consciousness and conscience. But let me say a few more words about the government's statement. I noticed today how the President here praised the passage concerning transport. Because I'm here for the second time approving trust to the government, five years ago for the first time, so I'd say if I didn't know that maybe it was a good thing if that government came out of opposition. I say second attempt, maybe also good, but it just turns out that the five years that had been made before such a statement were simply not fulfilled. [[19.20 hours]] And so I have to say that the problem I see is that there is a major legislative emergency here, which concerns the construction of large buildings, the construction of small buildings and buildings in general as such, because the construction law that we approved here before, I don't know, a year and a half, two years, maybe it was a few months more or less, I don't remember, so the bill had several hundred amendments here in the Chamber of Deputies. And I think that the construction law is simply the basis of all the construction investments in this state, and I always ask every minister or minister if the new construction law, the amendment, means that the preparation of the construction will be shorter than its implementation. And from certain years, because I was still in the Senate in 2002-2008, in the upper chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic, the answer was always evasive or silent. The reality is that every amendment to the construction law was a shift to worse, to greater bureaucracy, to more stamps, and I even suggested on some show that the best thing would be if we broke the building law and started with a clean table from beginning to end, because if we didn't have a simple, clear, user-friendly law, we'd never have a law that would apply to line construction. Let's just say that's what's going on. And now we have another problem - the competence of the ministries. We need line construction, but the construction law is mostly in the competence of the Ministry of Regional Development. It's a guarantee. And the Line Act should be the guarantor of the Ministry of Transport, but it has to follow up, together it has to intersect, because it is not possible for these two laws to simply be diametrically different and not compatible with each other. And the first time we talked about it, it's been five years, and the preparation of these laws is so far - I don't know where. We tried construction law a few months ago. It turned out the way it did. We just don't have a friendly building bill. It is only now that we find out, for example, in cities, what complications it causes us in the preparation of various buildings, and we also do not have the Linen Buildings Act. So if these two laws do not exist, and I fear that three years to the end of the possible theoretical end of this government's governance, which is asking us to trust us today, is a very short time to prepare these two high-quality bills. And that's where everything comes from. You know, even in that previous government statement, the buildings were listed. It looked really nice, we were all thinking, it's gonna be great, the infrastructure's finally coming up... They're whistling nicely! [[There's a whistling of outside protesters in the hall.]] And it will just start developing our state as such at a much larger rate. Not much happened. When you see the kilometers there, it's really within the framework of some possible law. We can criticize this place, but the main problem is hidden somewhere else. I have registered here an interest in PPP constructions, respectively. the PPP method of public-private interconnection. Well, I don't know. Those experiments have already been done here, or done in the past, and it has always ended up with the fact that the state could never write that contract with the private sector so that it would be beneficial for him. I think we can think about it, but in the near future, if we have money, if we have European resources, or somewhere even border resources, it is better to use these resources than to build through this way of the project, because it can also cause problems with the collection of money for a motorway stamp. By the way, we've been talking about her electronic version for years, and I think she was in that last government statement. You know, it sounds so beautiful there about how we're gonna use shipping, how we're gonna be trucks, virtually. their cost of translating on ships as we use rail transport in the same way, but I would like to say that over the course of decades we have not managed to push through the two jeans on the Elbe, which were important for the navigability of the Elbe, as my colleague, Foldyna, pointed out here several times, and what I remember, what I was in Parliament, always this point came to a shake and it always blocked through, I would say, environmental protection, to be completely clear, through environmental activists. So let's not make waves like this around here. I don't think we're gonna make it to the end of the term. As for train transport and train translation, the idea is excellent, also works somewhere, I think I saw it in Lovosice, but there is another problem. The railroad and the corridors, there are already so many trains there, that other trains and automatically translate the goods on trains according to my judgment is not quite possible, and if you are watching how the modern economy works, today everyone wants to have everything even in a small amount of time in place as they ordered it, which the Czech Railway, and now I mean in general the Czech Railway, simply not able to fulfill it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u121	I'd like some peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u122	Another idea - build a parking lot near the bus stations and near the train stations. The idea is delicious, it's delicious. I support her with all ten, but I have to say, there's one problem. Today, the stations have grown into city centers, and there's gonna be a lot of trouble getting land to build a parking lot. It's beautiful that you come by car to the nearest train terminal, you just get on a corridor train and you drive 200 km to work in the comfort of a luxury car, and when you drive back, you pick up the car in that parking lot again and drive home for a few miles to your village or village or town where you live. But the problem is, the premises aren't, they're minimal. And I also think that this is an ambitious plan, and I am curious, and I will ask that in three years' time, if we meet here in this lineup, how these ambitious plans have turned out. However, I say to the right - if it were the first time, I would say excellent. Maybe there's something else in there, my colleague Kolovratník and I were talking about it, but since it's the second time, I'm raising my finger that we're late, and the declarations that sounded here five years ago didn't come true. And by the way, the luxury of having a transport minister for four years, it hasn't been here for a long time. That's been a success lately. I remember a time when ministers changed faster than we change, gentlemen, socks. That's just the way it was. And now for the other issue, and that's the public administration. I'd say that's worse. It has been confirmed to me that only opposition Members, exceptionally coalition, read the government's programming statement. I don't know why. They may think that it's not important, that it's going to evolve somehow anyway and God knows how it's going to be, but I think that this programming statement is the basis of government activity for the whole period, and that we should then, at the end of the day, go back to how the government actually fulfilled the programming statement and whether the promises that it made to us here and on the basis of those promises, when it asked us for its support, whether it was real, whether the government was active or didn't have the necessary options, maybe it didn't come from an international point of view, or whether economic developments in the state, in the area, I understand all of it, but I think it's a basis. And what made me do it. Because I discovered something in the public administration that surprised me very much, and I'm not so sure it's a pleasant surprise. And the Prime Minister put me up to this today when he had the opening word here, because I listened carefully to him about the public administration, and when he said that municipalities, towns, unlike the state, have a surplus of 200 billion. CZK in my accounts, so I don't know how this number is burdened with possible loans and things like that, but I found a branch that stopped me, and I started to be a little bit vigilant. There's a sentence: to straighten out the relationship between self-government and state budget. Well, I have to say, municipalities always breathe with the state budget, because it can't be any other way. It just is. If the state is doing well, the municipalities are also doing well in terms of revenue from the budgetary determination of taxes. But if it was supposed to be that, like, the money that municipalities have in their accounts, like commercial banks, they should suddenly be in a national bank and the state could use them because they would fit in with the money flow, but I don't know, I can speculate, so of course that's a limit I don't want to see here. [[19.30 hours]] By the way, it turns out that municipalities can mostly manage better than the state, because the management is certain, it is sometimes controllable and no mayor, no council, except for the exceptions, does not allow any financial harakiri. I also discovered an interesting passage about the elections. And it was a Senate election, a one-wheel majority system. Well, I wonder how you want to fill that idea. Because I've been a senator for six years, I know the senators' opinions, and who goes through a two-way vote, so I have to say it's not an easy choice, some of us have done it several times, sometimes successfully, sometimes less successfully. And I fear that there will be no will for this in the Senate, because it is a constitutional law, three fifths of the votes of both chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic are needed. But what I didn't find was a way of voting for the local councils. This is where the action began to be a direct choice of mayors, a direct choice of captains. And not a word in a government statement. And yet I know because I am appointed to an expert committee that should deal with the direct choice of mayors and captains that this preparation continues. I've warned you about this before, I've got a clear opinion about it. There's a lot of risks. And that they have it somewhere else, it's not an argument for me to have it here, because if you find out how their communities, towns work, you'll find that there may be more problems than you can imagine. I've already talked about this, and I don't want to be here today. But what I was surprised about on page 18 of this material, House press 1070, was that the nearest ministry to public administration would be the Ministry of Regional Development. And I think that's a serious thing to talk about, because it's a little different so far. The municipalities actually fall within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior. And, of course, they're communicating with the Ministry of Regional Development, either through the funds or directly, but the question is, should it be that way in general? And that's what I really need to answer this question so that I can have a clear view of it, some conceptual material, because... I'd say the public administration works and works well. The trust of people in the municipal council is generally high, far higher than trust in Parliament, the government and the President at present. And I would very much hate for us to change this situation under some ambitious objective so that there will be chaos and instability. I warn you about it, I really warn you about it, please be careful, because I don't think it's the right approach. I've heard here that we're going to have national referendums, except that there won't be any decisions there in this parliamentary term about laws, international relations, I'd add to the budget, taxes. And I think that should never be the case, not just during this parliamentary term. The referendum is a tool for something completely different in our political system. About the apartments. The Prime Minister here says: the municipalities got apartments in 1991 and where are the apartments? They're in the villages and the towns. They're not lost, they're there, but property rights have changed. Part of the apartments remained owned by municipalities and part was privatised, they have specific owners who invest in the housing fund. And where they were smart in the cities, they usually sold it to the tenants at an artificial price, privatized it, and now the houses are looking, and the housing fund is completely different. And there's also a free market for apartments in those cities. I have one thing to say. Let us not judge the housing situation according to Prague. Prague is completely different. And if anyone thinks that if we start building in Prague it will help the Czech Republic, I don't think so. We don't want to move people to Prague. We're evacuating the countryside. We've got people leaving town, towns. And if you look at the belt around Prague, you can see it, the gradual devastation of the villages. People don't have time, they just go home to sleep. And when there's something going on, it's at the most on the weekend or on vacation. So I want to warn you about that. And the view with the housing question of both social housing, so we really need to see how it works not in Prague, not in those big cities, but rather how it works in small, medium towns and rural areas, because the situation there is completely different. By the way, the community can't build apartments with its budget. The budget for building apartments isn't enough. Every time the municipalities built apartments, it was with state subsidies. That's just the way it is, that's the reality. If you look at the volume of budgets, you'll find that you can't. The municipality may create conditions for construction, but this is a different history. And as far as the increase in RUD money is concerned, yes, the percentage came back the way it was before the crisis. That's good. That's right. In connection with this, I would like to say one more thing about transport, where I found that every year the government undertook to pay CZK 4 billion for the reconstruction of roads II. and III. classes, that means, it's some kind of money transfer system on the edge that will ensure this activity. I think it's exactly a demonstration of that, and I'm not gonna criticize that the government can't invest, I don't want to say this right now. I think there should be a systemic change of a completely different nature of the conversion of the RUD so that the regions normally have on it from their budget every year. But then the RUD has to be set a little differently. And the idea that it can only be judged by absolute values, how much it has increased, is what I'm saying: municipalities and regions breathe in the state budget. When the state manages to collect taxes, when the state thrives, this will, of course, be reflected in the revenue of municipalities from the budgetary determination of the tax. Ladies and gentlemen, I have dealt with these two chapters. I firmly believe that we will come back to this gradually, that nothing is dogma, that, of course, we can have different opinions, but we need to look for consensus so that public administration and transport work well, because transport is one of the areas where we have a big slide. And the municipalities are, I would say, our family silver, so let's not destroy them by setting them up with bad legislation. So much for my contribution. Otherwise, various warnings were expressed here, opinions on cooperation with the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia as well. Like I said, I'm not gonna moralize and convince someone to behave, it's a matter for all of us here, how it works with our consciousness and our conscience. I say the dice are cast, it's up to you. And, of course, by having the opportunity to vote, the responsibility falls on your heads. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u123	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mrs Krutáková, I'll read an apology. From 19.30 pm, Mr Petr Pávek apologizes for personal reasons until the end of the day. Mrs Krutáková... He's not here. [[Voices from the diaper.]] He's already here. Sorry, I didn't see you. I'm sorry. You have your word. And Mrs Vrecionová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, dear colleagues, I would like to give three particular reasons why I will vote against the second Government of Andrej Babiš. I will not talk about matters of value that have already been discussed by my colleagues and which I fully agree with. I will focus on the programming declaration from the point of view of my specialization, which is the field of environment and agriculture. Reason one. The government is contributing to rural depopulation and will continue to do so with its proposals. The programming statement says you'll be supporting small farmers. In doing so, you are resisting the reduction of subsidies for large enterprises and, in the vote on the budget for this year, you have moved one billion crowns for the agrifood complex, at the expense of support for the rural and forestry sector. What does that mean in practice? Only the biggest farmers can reach subsidies because they have the means to co-finance. The little ones can't reach the subsidies logically. Their business will be even less competitive and sooner or later they will be threatened with extinction. [[19.40 hours]] Reason two. The program statement says the government wants to enforce measures against drought. In doing so, we do not find any mention that it will promote really effective measures, such as the management of smaller soil units, as our ancestors did for good reason. Farming on huge pools densely sown by a single species of plants, typically rape or maize, has other conventions besides dryness. This is particularly a negative impact on living animals. In fields treated with industrial fertilizers and pesticides, they will not find enough food or fall victim to agricultural technology. Reason three. The government's strategy for the protection of the agricultural soil fund is not clarified in the government's programme. Although it is possible to read in the programming declaration that the government will make a significant commitment to the protection of quality soil, in practice, the land with the highest credit is sold off to investors whose aim is not to support small farmers in small fields, but to build industrial complexes or other centres. The argument from the perspective of the government's programme is a higher public interest. In practice, however, I consider this a mere apology for the sale of quality land from the ownership of the state or municipalities. Dear government, until you stop understanding agricultural land, forests and the environment around us in general only by economic optics as a source from which to raise as much money as possible, my conscience does not allow me to vote for the government's trust. I am not a hard-core environmental activist who would tie herself to trees, but unlike you, I realize the seriousness of the situation we are in because I am in daily contact with people living in the countryside. You may not see it in Prague, but South Moravia is almost dry. We must act quickly so that we and our children do not regret it later. Remember, we didn't get the land from our ancestors, but we borrowed it from our children and grandchildren, and we should get it back in good shape. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u125	Thank you, ma'am. I give the floor to Mrs Vrecionová, Mr Kupka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u126	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In November 1989, I never dreamed that I would live to see a time when the government, even for the second time in a short time, would be building a man with an unprecedented conflict of interest, criminally prosecuted, with a strange past. This government will be compiled with the support of the KSČM, and the social democracy, the party that the Communists have been suffocating for 40 years, will provide extras for them. Or even suffocated for 40 years. Unfortunately, this day has come today. I am ashamed of this government, the government of Babiš and Zeman, but I believe that one day it will be better. And I firmly believe that I will live to see a time when most of our nations will marvel at this stage of our history and wonder how this could have happened. This country has survived many terrible things. She survived communism, survived the normalization period, and I'm sure she'll survive your political involvement, Prime Minister. We're a capable nation, but we're driven by a klutz to use your passwords. I firmly believe that this will take a much shorter time than it may seem now. You have entered politics with noble slogans about transparency, about how better it will be, about how the government must be composed of professionals. As a result of your political engagement so far, the total expansion, the gradual return of old order, the rehabilitation of the pre-November regime, and the gradual relativization of everything that happened here in 1989. You can't get anybody into government who has a little respect and respect in society. Your expert, the nominator at the Justice Department had to resign before you even came to ask for trust. I am surprised, Mr Yes, and I believe that there are a great number of very decent and honest people among you that you want to assist in something like this. Someday you'll be ashamed to hold such a government in power. And I'm surprised, fellow Social Democrats, you're sticking your head in a noose yourself. I'm surprised you're going into a coalition with someone who almost wiped you out last term in government, who called you crooks and corrupters. It's your choice. However, I cannot shake the impression that you have exchanged short-term benefits for the future of your party. If I'm not surprised, it's the fact that KSČM likes to be a part of the government. After 30 years of fasting, they want to regain power, and you, MEPs YES and ČSSD, will allow them to do so. The greatest absurdity of the current government is that the Communists will support the supercapitalist Babiš. What paradoxes! I am proud that the Civil Democratic Party will not support the government YES, Miloš Zeman, KSČM and ČSSD. The ODS will not support the government leading us east. It will not support a government that will bully small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The ODS will not support a government that supports the growth of bureaucracy and the puffiness of a state that suffocates capable and hardworking people. It will not support the government that leads our country into the past. It will not support a government that weakens freedom and democracy in our country. I'm really proud of that. Now I would just like to take a few short points on the government's programming statement. Much has already been said on this subject in this day and I would just like to devote myself to that part of agriculture, although Mrs Krutáková has already mentioned some things here. A number of points in the agricultural part of the programming statement of the future government at first sight sound very religious. Unfortunately, after experience with your last government, with her programming statement, I'm afraid it's just empty words in a number of cases. In fact, you have supported, and I fear that you will continue to support, only the grand industrial method of agriculture regardless of everything. I'm afraid you'll continue because it's in the business interest of the Prime Minister himself, and not just him. The document even contradicts itself in some parts. In particular, it is the wording "we are opposed to the reduction of subsidies for large and medium-sized enterprises, but we will support a higher payment of subsidies for small farmers'. To this end, it must be said that if the ceiling is not applied, there will be less money for smaller farmers, because they will not be able to use, for example, a higher payment per hectare, so-called. Redistributive payment. After all, the material does not mention this payment at all. The Civil Democratic Party is promoting support for specific farmers, not for agri-business groups that have no relation to land and landscape. The ODS definitely supports your declared support for rural business, support for family companies, including farm farms. Unfortunately, the actions taken by representatives of this government coalition are in direct conflict with the efforts thus declared. It is the rising regulation of business, and this is what we are talking about here, perhaps at every meeting, consisting of the introduction of EETs, tax reports, smoking bans and other steps that restrict business in the countryside, that are leading to a reduction in the development potential of rural areas. Suggestions to restrict or abolish some of the non-systemic actions that have been proposed by the ODS in the countryside, both representatives and this government refused to support. That's another traditional theme of yours, I'd say, mantra, is food self-sufficiency. By the way, this term at a time when the Czech Republic is part of an open European market makes no sense at all. The point would be to do everything possible to ensure that our agricultural land is of such quality as to be able to support our population if necessary. However, this would have to change fundamentally today's large industrial farming method, which you are constantly defending and which sharply reduces the quality of agricultural land and impairs the ability to retain water in the countryside. [[19.50 hours]] Food self-sufficiency is not achieved worldwide by any country, among other things, because there are different conditions for the production of different agricultural commodities in different parts of the world. Please note that in your submission, this is just a front for endless support for large agricultural agro complexes. In agriculture, the Czech Republic is not only self-sufficient in the production of pigmeat, fruit and vegetables. In most agricultural commodities, it is largely surplus. And, of course, he does. Please note that if there should be full food self-sufficiency in all EU countries, the Czech Republic could not export anything at all. I see the mistake rather in the structure of our exports, when we export only raw materials and not added value products. But that's another problem, and that's not what you're doing. Another problem, for example. comparable aid. It's a question of what the poet meant. If it were to be the same amount of subsidies per hectare or commodity, it would mean, in practice, that the worse position of our agriculture, above all, against less developed EU countries, such as the Baltic countries or Balkan countries, and if farmers there took the same amount of support as our farmers, they would actually take much higher subsidies. That is why one euro has, for example, one euro. in Romania, much higher value within the economy than in our country. Here I think it would make great sense if you were more focused on trying to minimize and reduce redistribution and overall subsidies throughout the EU rather than driving and lobbying, as you do, for subsidies for large companies. One of the last points I want to address and which I consider very dangerous is the notification obligation for landowners to sell it. If this idea were to prevail, I believe there would be a breach of the constitutional rights of the owners and it would be a blank cheque for the further expansion of large agricultural capital- better equipped enterprises. The sole obligation to notify, which is legitimate, is the obligation of the owner to inform the existing tenant of the possible sale of the land or of the notice of the lease or rental contract with an annual advance. But this concerns only the contract tenant, and this obligation is already enshrined in the Civil Code today. I only picked a few very problematic points. I'm afraid if your government gets confidence today, as if it's gonna get it, there's gonna be a lot more of these problems to deal with. Dear Members, for many reasons, of course, I cannot, and the ODS cannot, support this government. And I'm looking forward to the day they end up in the wasteland of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u127	Thank you, ma'am. Next for the debate is Mr Kupka, to whom I give the floor. And Mr Profant will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u128	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. We are to vote today on trust for the government, which is most of all characterised by deep contradictions. Controversies between the outside and the inside. The first major contradiction. While YES and ČSSD are pretending to want to stay in the Euro-Atlantic value and political space, the Communists are heading in exactly the opposite direction. We've seen it recently during the vote on foreign missions of our army. The Communists voted against, and without the votes of the right, we would be on our way from our allies and our partners today. We read it in the government's programming statement, where the reinforcement of missions turned into a non-speaking standardisation flosculi. Of course, this internal contradiction must necessarily be reflected in the day-to-day functioning of the government. It is not possible to go west and east at the same time. The second major contradiction. The Prime Minister spoke long today about his dreams. It's like the first day in this House. However, he has had four years in government with ČSSD. He is responsible for not fulfilling his promises once more. Otherwise, we would necessarily be living in a much more successful country today. It promises a balanced budget, and it does exactly the opposite in times of economic growth. He is talking about how he will increase investment and spend less on consumption, but he is doing the opposite. And what's serious and much worse, really? If Andrej Babiš began to fill his words and actually began to save on consumption, less to waste, his current left-wing coalition partners would immediately back off. After all, their real policy is aimed primarily at redistribution and consumption. Just mention the paraphrase of the fresh expression of one of the major communist allies: When Babiš doesn't give out any crumbs in good weather, we can break up with him. It was possible to observe the appearance of the leftist party members when Andrej Babiš mentioned that he wanted to reduce taxes. It is clear that any right-wing thesis from the Prime Minister's mouth will only be an empty decoy. Do you want another serious proof of this contradiction? Whenever the ODS proposed a real tax reduction and simplification, the first government of Andrej Babiš wiped it out. Andrej Babiš promises a rapid increase in tax collection. There's been talk of a lot of unclaimed taxes lying around. There was talk of hundreds of billions. However, given economic growth, they do not increase significantly compared to previous years of economic growth. Babišův's actions in tax matters only complicate the lives of entrepreneurs and cause the disappearance of small businesses, especially in the countryside, which is the exact opposite of the promises contained in the government's declarations. So great measures have brought nothing, and the risks that Andrej Babiš said would not occur have been fulfilled. The third major contradiction. Andrej Babiš promises to run the state as a company, but the result is an increase in the number of civil servants by several thousand. For what? To regulate and control the lives of the citizens who pay for them more. And now he's promising us the same thing. Then who would believe it? The facts are clear. In the last four years, the number of civil servants has grown in a proven and undisputed way. There's been a growing number of regulations. The real administrative burden on citizens and entrepreneurs has increased. Simplifying bureaucracy is heard from the Prime Minister's mouth as a mantra, but compared to the real results of his previous action, it is just another obvious contradiction or a lie. In the Czech Government's declaration, it mentions the digitalisation of the Czech Republic at an important point. But what has happened in that area in the last four years? Nothing. He himself described it honestly and critically by Andrej Babiš. However, he forgot to say that it was in the Ministry of the Interior that YES had its people in the position of directly responsible Deputys. The ODS has a real recipe for effective digitization and simplification of bureaucracy. At the beginning, however, there must be an inventory of all agendas and their simplifications and also their interference. Otherwise digitalization would only lead us into a more complex labyrinth of the same, only digitized responsibilities. It's not enough to talk about how our future will be happily digital. To do this, we need to go through all the agendas at the beginning, cancel as many of them as possible and simplify others in such a way that they can be digitally ensured. We need, among other things, a change of attitude. Any obligation imposed by laws on people should be dealt with primarily digitally in the future. And, of course, it must be available at the offices with the help of officials, for example, for those who do not want to use online services. That's a specific design instead of a dream. The fourth major contradiction. In order for the government to function well, it must have more than a dedicated bond of ministerial posts. Partners should at least have an elementary dignity position and a consensus. One should not use the other as a fig leaf or even a rag on the floor. And the other one should never accept such a role. The fifth major contradiction. We have heard that there is to be a government of experts who can perfectly handle key challenges in all areas. I'm not going to talk about the peripetia around its origin, which is more like a theatrical farce. We all know that our government is to be involved as confident as possible in solving serious international problems. The Prime Minister himself talks about how he wants to play a strong role in the EU. But it is a mockery that the government has come for confidence without having a full-time minister of foreign affairs. [[20.00 hours]] Listen to the Prime Minister defending the government's statement. It's completely incoherent, untraceable juggling with strange data, conjecture, transitions from topic to topic. The main motto of the new government might be: tell us what you want to hear, and we'll tell you. If a project involves so many serious contradictions, it cannot function well and cannot have confidence. This is not just a political statement, it follows from the logic of the matter. And if such a project lives formally, it will have enormous consumption. The consumption of energy spent, the consumption of time, the consumption of hidden agreements, program and political bribes. I believe this is not a good choice for our country. All the more so, that it really brings back the Communists to power. That is why I will be voting against the proposal today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now with an application for debate, Mr Profant. Mr Lipavský will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u130	Beautiful evening, honourable Members and citizens who are watching. I, as in previous negotiations on government trust, will only comment on one chapter of the programme statement and that is digital Czech Republic. Not much has changed in this chapter. I've been commenting on most of this the last time. Let me get this straight from the start. You have it very well written, but the reality of your practice is very different. There's some development going on in eGovernment. However, it is not the merit of our ministers, ministries, or so on. This is the credit of the European Union, where individual directives and regulations are taking place, which guarantee us, for example, a Europe-wide central identity, the protection of personal data, the accessibility of websites and the like. And what are the concrete steps of the last Babišův government they've made in six months? Well, it's an attempt to cancel an eIncompetent, which is actually a simple message from the doctor towards the employer and to the Czech Social Security Administration at a time when we have infrastructure in the form of data boxes. I really don't understand what's complicated about it. And the representatives of the ministry on the subcommittee weren't able to explain to me what's so complicated that it takes years to prepare. It is the postponement of the eCollection project, a key project for equality of citizens before the law, for the availability of law, at the moment when we have laws for people freely accessible on the Internet. I really don't understand. It's a NEN, technically inconvenient moloch written in such bad technology that even their manufacturers don't support it anymore. Last but not least, it is the implementation of GDPR. Sobotkův's government should have dealt with this problem, but it was squabbling, so it didn't. Although Babišův's first government presented it by first reading, it was late, and at the last meeting there was no interest in assigning it, even though it was possible to do so, it was possible to vote over the holidays. I would remind you that the GDPR regulation has been valid throughout Europe since 25 May and we do not have implementing legislation. Implementation legislation, which will, for example, lay down journalistic exceptions, exceptions for statistical and archival purposes and such things, which are quite important and bring only some mess into our legislative system, uncertainty and so on. What is more, the ANO Members are such professionals that they propose to impose fines on self-government and their contribution organisations at CZK 10,000. Entrepreneurs will pay millions, but municipalities, such as the capital of Prague with their 60 billion budget, will have a maximum fine of CZK 10,000. Well, I guess you know how Mrs. Krnáčová runs the place, yes, so I guess that's the result. Then I was very interested in the Prime Minister's mention of not using negotiated procedures without publication. This is Mr Babiš, who himself refused to compete with EET, which he states as his successful project. Well, from a technical point of view, it's a completely unsuccessful project, it's a continuation of vendor lock-in and it's just a mentality of hazing. I think the project went positive somehow. That there might have been added value for the entrepreneurs. And I have nothing against tax collection personally, but how it was done, how instructions were published, how it was user-friendly, that's faggotism and bullying. One thing you've just launched is a citizen's portal. Although the citizen's portal is good, it finally implements the European identity and so on. However, he himself brings almost nothing. Now the ball is on the side of all ministries and other authorities to implement their applications, their services to the citizen's portal. We need the Department of Transport to put in the driver's license agenda, which is completely empty today if you log in. Social Services need to put pensions there, et cetera, et cetera. And to Mr Babiš's challenge, when he said: I hope that all parties will be involved in the topic of digitalisation. Then we will certainly join the pirát. We're also dealing with a government agent. But let me warn you that these end-projects must not be conducted in the way that, for example, an EET selection procedure has been conducted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u131	Thank you. Mr Lipavský, Mr Munzar, will be prepared now with an application for debate. [[Information off the microphone: He's not here.]] So his application is forfeit. I will ask Mr Munzar to prepare Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Allow me, too, to comment on the establishment of the government and on the programming statement presented to us today. The Prime Minister is trying to tell the public and us that the association of YES with KSČM is actually forced, unwanted, and it is only a variant of what is left. Whoever lives in this country and has eyes open sees that the opposite is true. I am from Kladno and YES has been in coalition with KSČM at the town hall for the fourth year. In the Regional Council of the Central Bohemia Region there is almost a year of coalition YES and KSČM. And now you're closing a de facto coalition at state level. Cities, county, state. It's not that you're left with each other. It's not even a partnership of reason anymore. This is a partnership of mutual understanding and harmony. Not by any chance, here in the House, the greatest consensus in voting in this parliamentary term is between KSČM and YES. By no chance, the evaluation of the past nearly thirty years of freedom from the Prime Minister's mouth sounds like a lesson in crisis development. And not by chance one of the first decisions made by members of the ANO movement in the previous parliamentary term when it came to the House was to abolish the obligation of government members to have a negative illustration certificate. It was the YES movement that caused the StB's co-workers, the pillars of totalitarian communist power, to become members of the government of our beautiful country. Not just today's governments, but any future. And it's not without interest that until then only the communists fought for it. And it's Andrej Babiš, who was the first to make power with communists after 1989, about the government. As Mr Kováčik said today - after the coup. The saying shows that nothing has actually changed at the DSČM. [[20.10 hours]] Communists here explain the principles of parliamentary democracy. History, however, shows us that communists are democrats only until they reach power. And it is Andrej Babiš who has put the future of his government and our country in the hands of the Communists. And it is also Andrej Babiš, who negotiated the government's programming statement with the Communists. Today's semi-communist government danced their naming dance at the castle on the day of the memory of the victims of communism and Milada Horáková. And I may even believe that Andrej Babiš, the Prime Minister, didn't connect it, especially because he doesn't really care. And today is also a nice date. 58 years ago, in 1960, the then National Assembly established the leading role of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia in the Constitution of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic. And this leading role was responsible for a lot of victims and ruined lives and, above all, the loss of freedom for generations of our parents and our grandparents. That is why communism cannot and must not be rehabilitated. But what we see: first comes bagatellization, then rehabilitation and eventually maybe standardisation. And you're doing it, and it's a crime for our country. Members of Parliament for YES and ČSSD, I am sorry that you are actively involved, but it is a decision for each of you. So we have a government based on the support of communists who want to rely on socialist recipes. The government's programming statement could have a working title. No one's gonna give you as much as we can promise you. The government promises a lot, but it doesn't say where it's gonna take it, but unfortunately, the answer is obvious. Everything will be paid by the taxpayer and especially the middle class. And how can we believe that a trend in many things will turn? Instead of increasing pressure on the middle class, there will be a reduction in administrative burdens for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. How are we supposed to believe that the government will treat entrepreneurs as partners, not as dirty suspects, as hostile classes in class struggle? You promise to take steps to minimise the administrative burden on entrepreneurs, this is a quote from the programming statement, and at the same time you persistently and firmly refuse, for example. increasing the limits for the application of tax flat-rates. I was intrigued by the programme statement, which I will read to you here: We will create a long-term tool for supporting rural business across the resorts in order to preserve business and rural services. Typical socialist approach. First, you destroy services in the countryside through pressure from the government, new EET regulations, anti-smoking law, and today you want to subsidize it. The recipe is much easier. Let the businessmen work in peace. But you prefer to follow Ronaldo Reagan's exact quote. If it's moving, tax it when it's still moving, regulate it, and when it stops moving, touch it. And how are we supposed to believe that suddenly there will be balanced budgets that you promise in the programming declaration when the finance ministers for YES present deficit budgets at a time of growth? A deficit budget of CZK 50 billion is proposed this year. There is therefore further debt to the state and therefore to all citizens. At a time of economic growth, it is budgetary irresponsibility. And how are we supposed to believe that the trend will change and investment will start to increase when investment has been constantly declining despite economic growth, despite rising revenue from the state, under the YES finance ministers? And how are we supposed to believe that there will be a reduction in the operating costs of the state when there have been a number of new officials in the last four years? The state swells, costs us more and more, while burdening citizens with more responsibilities. The consequences of this irresponsible approach to state finances will be felt when the economic recession comes. In the program declaration you have digital Czechia. And how are we supposed to believe that digital technologies will finally be used for the benefit of our citizens' lives and not as a repressive tool with online surveillance, because so far you have used new technologies? That's your famous EET. In the programme statement, you are dealing with the housing crisis. And how are we supposed to believe that you can reasonably solve rising housing prices and housing crises? Instead of abolishing the property acquisition tax that we have proposed and you have rejected, simplifying the construction regulations for private construction support, you are only proposing redistribution of the subsidy and de facto state construction. And how are we supposed to believe that a state that regulates, controls, controls the lives of citizens, limits free will, suddenly becomes a partner of citizens, a small state with low taxes, friendly to citizens and respecting their freedom? Simply - we simply cannot trust you, and that is why I will vote against the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u133	Thank you, too. I will ask Mrs Richterová to prepare Mr Janda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u134	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, time has progressed, the whistling doesn't stop. [[before the House]] There's a lot of words here that describe the whistling and materializing. I believe that many of you who sit behind me in the seats of ministers and ministers do not want to hear our opposition words very much. No wonder, but at the same time, I am very glad that we, as pirát, have reminded us that it is precisely in the confidence negotiations that the entire government is to hear these concerns of ours. I would also like to remind you that you are not only listening to us, some number, a few dozen opposition Members and Members, but through us you are also listening to those other voters, other citizens of this country who are afraid of increasing the power of media and political power. But that's been heard a lot today. I wanted to remind you that despite this division of the coalition - the opposition our House was able to be yesterday, only yesterday it was incredibly effective, and that five parties actually approved a single vote to delete, say, 60 points from the negotiations. It was going very fast. It can be perceived as disrespect for the things that could improve, some of the laws should have been addressed, but objectively speaking, the country will continue to work somehow. Over the holidays, it's like it's not gonna happen that much. Some improvements won't happen, but we'll survive. Now I'd like to draw everyone's attention to a matter that, if nothing happens for too long, it's gonna be a really big mess. And I don't quite find her in the programming statement. I wish the Chamber of Deputies would also find a consensus on this solution as effectively as yesterday in removing further negotiations. It is a matter that lies by far not only on ministries, but it will require a lot of detailed and good cooperation with municipalities. I would like to speak in particular to the Ministry of Regional Development and to Mrs Klára Dostálová, to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and to Mr Krčál, also to the Ministry of Education and to Mr Plag, and also to the Ministry of Health. Then I would also speak to Mr Vojtěch. What's going on? In a nutshell, it is the connection of housing and social exclusion with all other important things for the functioning of society, with things such as the ability to go to school, to work, about how costs are increasing in the health system when one is socially insecure when one is stressed not only by poor and insecure housing but also by frequent relocation. Likewise, there is a big problem and a great deal of cargo related to decaying and dysfunctional families, to the removal of children, to the cost of their provision. [[20.20 hours]] Let's just remember that basically all of this stuff I've named has a common denominator that somehow stops working a stable and healthy family. However, families need legal certainty, as we see in our country today, in addition to all these things and functions, and with us the great help of the state from the area of debt and execution. If we have 863 thousand debtors and 4.5 million executions, this issue is basically not only interpreted as social exclusion, but also a direct threat to the fall into poverty and a direct threat to some destabilisation of those families, so this issue concerns more than a million, more than two million people directly. I therefore ask for attention also for the issues of the territoriality of executors and for the insolvency law to really enable the debt of many people who cannot reach insolvency today. But that's a turn to the Justice Department. Now, I ask you to go back to how you can actually document all of this numerically. What's the connection? The programming statement says that it will, I assume, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, intensively support the development of public services for the family. This general argument, this general declaration, I ask, can it be translated, for example, as an increase in the grant title of a family, from which, for example, various parent centres are financed, but also the social activation services for families in difficulty, services to prevent the worst problems and cut various vicious circles? At the same time, social activation services today suffer enormously from the fact that there is no multi-annual financing, the fact that it is not possible to plan community work in the long term, by the fact that there is actually nothing systemically strengthening happening in this area. The solution for the future becomes only more expensive and expensive in the future. Similarly, the programming declaration mentions individual effective assistance, while today at a number of jobs, and in general, social workers do not have the capacity to really devote themselves individually to families. In the case of the biggest problems, about one worker per ten families is needed. Today, in some services, we have about 60 families per worker. These systemic contexts show that if we support stable, certain housing, for example, health expenditures, such as ambulance exits, hospitalizations, or medications, such as antibiotics - compared to people in stable housing versus hostels, for example. That's one aspect that's proven. Or, on the contrary, when we look at the cost of children's homes, the placement of one child costs about CZK 600,000 per year. Considering all emotional and other aspects, this is also a considerable burden. This connection is related to the upcoming law on social housing. But I just mentioned all this so that even in this composition, the government really concentrated on the interconnectedness of these systems and the interconnectedness of the financial impact. What is invested in one place in housing, we will most likely save elsewhere. But municipalities can't do a lot of things alone for providing financial subsidies. In the program statement MMR talks about the transformation of SFRB. However, the question is whether it will be possible to support some knowledge, know-how where it will be more difficult for municipalities to negotiate with developers, to arrange for really some share of available flats with reduced rents in normal construction and the like. But if nothing happens again, just pressure will rise in large cities, there will be an increase in the number of regions where rent for ordinary families will be unbearable. In all of this, what's really a terrible spiral, the more families are long on social welfare in excluded locations, the more kids don't take over the patterns they should take over, they don't quit school, and it spins. I don't want to stay with all this. In addition to families in trouble, it is necessary to encourage families that work somehow to remain healthy. And that's my question, too, for the programming statement. To what extent is the real support of communities, those local, neighbourly relations, working in municipalities that are likely to help families in some kind of twitching, in some difficult situation. Whether the illness of someone in the family is the harder situation in life, or even when children are young and it is difficult. And that's the moment where I see a white place in that programming statement. But, and that will be the conclusion of this warning to something that really is a fundamental thing for the functioning of our society, often this white place is where the often so-spitty nonprofits jump in. Couple of positive numbers. For example, Junák - Czech scout is a registered association and last year he had 60,000 members, 8 800 volunteers, organized 1,049 camps. This is voluntary work that can be calculated by roughly one billion crowns. In order to make good on the concerns of the past so many times today, I would also like to mention that Pioneer is also a registered association today. Over 800 shares again, 30,000 participants. Or in the area of life of seniors, we have Life 90, where even seniors are actively volunteering. And again last year, over 7,000 hours of volunteering only in this rather smaller organization after all. And this is the active support of families to keep them healthy, not to need those camps or to accompany seniors to the theatre, to the museum unbearably expensive, to bridge some more demanding life span, for example, in families caring for people with disabilities and so on. Here, the promotion of civil energy, the civic self-help is something that I personally feel would be very helpful to our society as a whole. I wanted to remind you of this thing, because it has been said here and today many times, what problems you see many of my colleagues and colleagues in nonprofits. At the same time, I wanted to stress how crucial housing is for solving many related problems in our society. And I wanted to say to you ministers and ministers that, while I am a member of the pirate MP's club for many repeated reasons, I will not give my trust to this government as a whole, so if it turns out that you have moved things that have not changed and improved in those indicated areas, I will be happy to say that Mr Plaga, Mr Krčál, Mrs Dostálová or Mr Vojtěch would have earned my trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u135	Thank you. I will ask Mr Janda to prepare Mrs Majerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u136	Mr President, honourable Members, Andrej Babiš has proposed today that we put our trust in the management of the Czech Republic in the hands of the semi-communist government. It freezes me to think that the Chamber of Deputies is in a position to decide whether this state is to run a government based on the Communist Party. And it scares me that the government of the Czech Republic will be run by a criminally prosecuted man. Yet I am still trying to find a constructive debate. I have thoroughly read the idea of this government's governance in its programming statement. Souls and I believe that I'm still an athlete with my body, which is why I've turned my attention to the chapter on sports. So what does this government offer us in the field of sport? Is it facing the current challenges of the sports environment and its very dynamic development? Does he deal with complex questions of physical culture? Is he trying to take the body-fundamental and systemic agenda? Does he deal systematically with the issues of talented youth? Does he think about the trendy modernisation of the sport infrastructure of Republic or European importance? Does it create suitable conditions for the development of performance and peak sport? Does the State aid system improve? Does he really think about how it's supposed to work? Does he name and offer a solution to the burning problems? The answer is one big no. The sport programme statement is a showcase of the European Charter's floscules, state-funded concepts and policies without any link to the functional environment of clubs and divisions. This government had a chance to prove that they were serious about sports. After rhetoric to manage the state as a company I would expect much more courage to solve complex questions of the body. I would expect system solutions to sports issues, whether they concern the state representation or the management of small sections. I would expect a clear, courageous and concrete vision taken into the holistic sports concept and sport policy, which will address the agenda of physical culture and movement activities at the highest and professional level with an adequate accompanying apparatus. However, this programming statement does not face current challenges and does not seek to address the sport agenda either comprehensively or systemicly. This statement is simply vague and general, it is unblurry, it is unbearable. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not put my trust in this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u137	Thank you. Please, Mrs Majerová, Mrs Langšádlová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u138	Good evening, Mr President, honourable Members, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The true art of politics and life is to seek at least something good even in the worst possible. Is there anything good about this government that is legal but not legitimate in my eyes? Is there anything good about the government that will further deepen the ignorance and cultural decline of our nation not only through the Ministry of Education? Is there anything good about the government that has spent the last four years in the same composition as our education? Is there anything good about this crazy government? On this government of the commercial interests of one man, standing on the pillars of the life-fighting social democracy and communists, who for the first time have really come to power since 1989, which is a mockery to our entire post-November development. But it will not yet rule in an absolutely totalitarian way, because there is still a right-wing opposition, there are free media, there are even reasonable and good people within government parties. Ladies and gentlemen, the predecessor of this extremist left died 90 years ago that he was going to Moscow to learn to twist our necks. Yes, the left always learned somewhere. One time in Moscow, another time in Brussels, another time in Beijing. We're not going to study in the east or the west. We, together with the Czech people, will be prepared to repair all the damage that this semi-communist government will do as quickly as possible after the next elections, and to be able to return to our country the convergence, entrepreneurship, trust, justice and justice again. Meanwhile, we members of the ODS promise you that we will be a hard opposition to this government. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has always overcome all the wounds that have come upon us. And I believe, even this time, that reason, diligence, justice and truth will prevail. I wish you a peaceful evening, and I want to say that I cannot express my trust in this government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u139	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mrs Langšádlová. Mr. Kaňkovský will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u140	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, colleagues, we are in a difficult situation. Today, we are faced by a government headed by a co-worker of State Security who relies on the trust of communists. I'm terribly sorry. It's like we've lost historical memory, like we've forgotten about the victims of the Communist regime. I will not deal with the economic effects of the populist government, which creates debt even at a time of great economic growth. It should be recalled that economic growth is not due to it. It's because of our businessmen and citizens. And it's their money the government's about to give away. God forbid the economic crisis will catch us in this government. But let us ask ourselves what this situation means to us. The situation in which the government heads up with an associate of State Security with the support of communists, whose formation was attended by pro-Chinese and pro-Russian President Miloš Zeman. What is the greatest risk for us? For me, this is a reversal of our basic foreign policy orientation and strengthening our ties to Russia and China. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that is the influence that the public section of information Security Information Services warns us about every year. [[The Prime Minister is dining in the bench and responding to the Member.]] Mr. Prime Minister, enjoy your meal. Enjoy your meal. [[I'm hungry.]] I see. Please inform us about personnel agreements. Please inform us of the personnel agreements you made with the Communists and Miloš Zeman. Especially in the field of state administration, strategic enterprises and diplomacy. Prime Minister, please inform us what agreements have been concluded on the completion of nuclear blocs. Did you make a deal to build these blocks with Russian or Chinese companies? [[Absolutely not!]] Prime Minister, please inform us of your intentions in relation to the North Atlantic Alliance!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u141	I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u142	Prime Minister, please don't call me from the bench! Prime Minister, the mission broadcast area has disappeared from the government's programming statement, our commitments. Prime Minister, you've been blocking a long-term increase in defense funds. Prime Minister, you're endangering our security. Please inform us what steps you want to take so that your government does not turn around in our basic foreign policy orientation. At this point, I would like to address you, fellow Members of the ANO movement and social democracy. I know that many of you are pro-Western. I know that many of you care about pro-European orientation. Many of you are right-wingers. How are you feeling? Aren't you worried about the situation? I'd like to ask you to reconsider your decision. And while I know that's probably not gonna happen, I want to ask you to be really brave in the coming months and not be afraid if there's a situation that threatens our basic orientation, so that you have the courage to face these trends. Because these would be steps that are really hard to reverse, and it really is a threat in the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u143	Thank you. I will ask Mr Kaňkovský to prepare Mr Žáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u144	Good evening, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. There have been many words all day about the prospects of the President of the appointed government, who sits behind me in the benches, and the Prime Minister before me, especially from the mouth of the Prime Minister himself. There has also been, in a much larger number, a number of critical comments on both the establishment of this government and its government statement. I suppose I could talk a long time about the number of complaints I have about this government. I would certainly start with the dependence of this government on the Communist side, which is a fact which fundamentally annoys me and our voters. I could also raise a number of political and ethical reasons why I do not agree with this government. I will not do this because these reasons have already been heard here from the mouth of President KDU-ČSL Pavel Bělobrádek, but also from other colleagues, but also from other parties. My aim is to draw attention to the problematic passages of the government statement, even though the Prime Minister praised it here in his two-hour speech to heaven. If a person reads the programming statement in detail and puts it in correlation with what the YES government has done here in almost eight months of self-government, there is not much optimism left in a person. But I do give the Prime Minister the truth for one thing - the government's statement is ambitious. Unfortunately, however, the government statement is ambitious towards spending. The Prime Minister and his previous government have promised investment during their splendid roundabouts and other expenditures for tens, perhaps hundreds of billions of crowns now. And what the government's declarations are no longer ambitious is the revenue side. The Prime Minister has repeated several times in this place how he is improving and will improve his tax collection as he deals with tax evasion. No matter how much I count, and for the huge spending that the government is planning, and not primarily in investment, that just can't be enough. So far, the government has not introduced any conceptual structural changes in the state budget in the area of taxation, in the area of mandatorial spending, so that, at a time of prosperous economy, we can save for the thin summers that will come sooner or later. The Prime Minister here spoke of extending his already good programme to citizens' initiatives. That is certainly commendable, and I do not object. However, when a cake is baked, it must have some basic structure, a bonding cream and eventually a little decorating. But if the texture and taste of the dough are underestimated as a base, use the rancid cream and the cake is decorated with garlic and leek, so it's not gonna be much of a grub. Not in vain, I guess we all remember how it turned out when he made a cake doggy with a kitty cat. But back, I'll be more relevant. I shall begin with one promise the Prime Minister made in his speech, when he and I would. He talked about the government's work to allow more applicants from the Czech Republic to be accepted from the academic year 2018-2019, and even more, given the growing personnel crisis in the medical school's health system. Similar promises were made here in response to an interpellation from the Minister of Health three months ago, and from the mouth of the Prime Minister himself. What's the reality? According to publicly available sources, some medical faculties not only do not expect more candidates from the Czech Republic to be accepted for the next academic year, but at least two of them plan to accept several dozen student candidates less. Yes, the planned number of candidates may eventually be exceeded by the medical faculties, so I will keep the final evaluation of the fulfilment of the promise of both the Minister and the Prime Minister until September, when it is clear how many students have actually accepted the medical faculty. I do not want to be unfair, but, in any case, these promises raise doubts. Dear colleagues, I am personally linked to health care, I have devoted my entire professional life to medicine, so I am also focusing on the health part of the government statement. In its government statement, the government promises a number of steps in the health sector that can be agreed with in a number of cases, and if their implementation succeeds, Czech patients and perhaps Czech health professionals will do better. Unfortunately, I must say that the government's statement focuses only on what it wants to do, but only very abstractly in places. Yes, knowing what needs to be done is very important. However, much more important is how the government wants to achieve this. And we learn very little about this in a government statement. The opening part about health begins with ambitious promises: Patients, you get everything you want. - I confess, I'm paraphrasing a little. I completely agree that quality health care and available care are a fundamental priority for the Czech citizen and therefore for most parliamentary parties. KDU-ČSL has long been promoting and will promote that the Czech patient should be entitled to high quality health care, regardless of his social situation. At the same time, however, KDU-ČSL considers it essential that the health system in the Czech Republic is financially stable in order to respond to new, modern medical procedures and can quickly implement them. Financial stability in health care is an essential prerequisite for its long-term functioning. Unfortunately, the government's statement does not say where the government will look for new financial resources for health care. It is limited only to constantly shaken phrases on the strengthening of transparency and the introduction of central purchases. I have nothing against strengthening transparency, on the contrary, I welcome it and, as the former director of the hospital, I have tried to do the same in practice. I have nothing against central purchases, but let us be honest, only savings to maintain high-tech health care in our country are simply not enough and will not be enough. Let's finally face it once again, and let's not put our citizens' eyeballs on each other. One of the key priorities of the government in the field of health care should be the concept of financial stability of the Czech health care with a view to five to ten years in view of the steep development of costs, especially central treatment, e.g. for biological or other financially demanding treatment of oncological diseases, biological treatment of autoimmune diseases such as: Multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, to cover highly demanding operating performances etc. If we do not set steps to financial stability of Czech health care and to years of economic downturn, then we will put Czech citizens at risk of reducing health care. And the government is more or less silent on this task. [[20.50 hours]] The government statement also deals relatively closely with planned changes in the functioning of health insurance companies, changes in the setting up of the network of health establishments. Yes, I consider all of this to be necessary. Unfortunately, there is, again, at least a hint of how the government wants to achieve this. It kind of reminds us of the "we mustn't even insinuate." I am aware that the government's statement cannot contain all the algorithms, but the key objectives should include the tools that the government wants to achieve. On the contrary, I must commend the passages on the solution to the health-social boundaries, namely the concept of care for chronically ill patients, patients with incurable diseases. Here I just want to appeal that the government should not delay these changes, which require inter-respective cooperation. We've been through a lot of promises in the last parliamentary term. I also welcome the passages on the introduction of the HTA principle for introducing new technologies and performances into public health insurance payments, in such a way that the payment of public health insurance is primarily offset by what will actually benefit the patient. I also welcome the completion of the DRG Restart project and the direction of funds so-called for the patient. I just hope we'll see about that in the foreseeable future. However, I have to say very critically about two key areas that the government has forgotten in its government health statement, or it simply does not know what to do with them, and I do not say that the solution is simple in the first place. The first area, which I consider to be absolutely fundamental and which immediately threatens the functioning of the Czech health care, is the deepening personnel crisis, whether it be a lack of doctors, so to a minimum the lack of nurses and other staff. This is a real scarecrow of Czech health care, and the government's statement is that this problem does not exist or affects it very much from a distance. I have already discussed the problem with the need to receive more students at the medical school. However, this alone is not enough, even though it is very urgent, as has been said here from the mouth of Bohuslava Svoboda by your means, Mr President, the effect will come first in six to ten years. At this point, however, it is not just a numerical deficit of doctors and nurses. A much greater danger is the age structure of the Czech medical population. According to available statistical information it is evident that in some medical expertise they form the most numerous group of doctors between 50 and 60 years of age, in some even over 60 years of age. It is clear that within five to ten years a number of these doctors will retire, and at that point there will be a huge problem in these expertise, all the more so, that in the age categories 40 to 50 years and under 40 years there is a significant slump in numbers. In short, hospitals and terrain are struggling with a lack of middle-aged physicians, experienced doctors, who should also be trainers of young entering doctors. And if we don't respond to this situation five minutes, maybe ten past 12, then our citizens really have a happy future. The more I am surprised that the government does not accentuate this problem in its government statement, I do not want to say that it even ignores it. Patients and paramedics are waiting for hope, patients who will have good care, health professionals who will be well rated for their work, which the government promises with one mouth, then cancels them again, then promises again. But paramedics aren't just about salaries anymore. They are overloaded, they are under constant stress for the personnel deficit, they need to be sure that the government will not allow the personnel crisis in health to go away with their health or to end up in criminal proceedings, because they simply haven't done anything in time and quality. Here the clear vision of the solution by the Ministry of Health and the entire government is missing. And let's face it, the best medicine, the more modern technology will be of no use to patients unless they're used by motivated medical personnel. The second line of problems to which the health government has completely resigned is the area of disease prevention. At the last meeting of the Health Committee, we discussed the complete failure of the Ministry of Health, namely the section of the Chief Hygiene, in implementing the Health 2020 strategy. It is all the more surprising that, while with the removal of some highly valued but politically uncomfortable people from the positions of deputy ministers, the government movement ANO took a hurry, the night of long knives took place before the Christmas holidays, on the contrary, the main health caregiver, who has completely failed in her position, has so far been in office. These are really very sad paradoxes. It is quite well-known that the Czech Republic has achieved a significant positive shift in the average life expectancy of citizens since 1989. Yes, we have managed to substantially prolong the average life expectancy of our citizens. But is that enough? What does that prove? In itself, it is only that, with the help of better health care in particular, our population lives to be older. But there are also qualitative parameters of health and the so-called life expectancy in health is crucial, i.e. the stage of life that we will experience without limiting diseases, most often without some of the civilization diseases. And unfortunately, the situation here is quite different. Since 1989 we have not advanced an inch in this parameter. Well, summarized. We live to be older, but we have been suffering from chronic diseases for almost two decades. And here is a big difference from, for example, the Nordic countries, which have achieved an effective and long-term primary prevention programme, i.e. disease prevention, in a state where they have not only significantly extended the average life expectancy, but also significantly extended the time that their inhabitants will experience in health. And here the Czech Republic is totally failing, and I am not talking about the second positive effect of conceptually applied disease prevention, and this makes significant financial savings on health care. So much for the health part of the government's statement. A few words to conclude. I'm a positive person and I wish no harm to anyone. Yes, the outrages that have been raised here from Mr Grebeníček's mouth through you, Mr President, would have ended a few hundred years ago by challenging a duel probably from a number of fellow Members of the Chamber of Deputies, but also from many citizens of this country. We live in a different time, and I'm a pacifist myself. But I'm also a realist. Stalinist remains a Stalinist. And I, unlike Mr Grebeníček, can forgive, but it is certainly not possible for me or for a number of citizens of this country to forget the actions of Mr Grebeníček senior and similar to him. There is certainly no way to forget about the aesthebacists and their aids, certainly not only the physical but also the psychic terror that the representatives of these structures applied during the Communist government. Yes, Mr Grebeníček, through Mr President, I forgive you. But history will not forget and especially will not forget those whom the Communists murdered, tortured, physically and mentally abused. And you proved today that KSČM wasn't and isn't reformed by the left side. The KSČM has not distanced itself from its dark past, and this is one of the fundamental reasons why I cannot raise my hand for this government in any way. I have also mentioned a number of factual reasons why this government will not receive my vote. Yet I do not wish this government anything wrong. The government is not for Members, but for citizens. That is why I wish that even such a factually and politically misconstrued government should succeed in working for the development of the Czech Republic and its citizens. I and the other KDU-ČSL Members will not give confidence to the government, but we are prepared to be a hard but correct opposition. Personally, I am not used to criticizing only on principle, I am prepared with colleagues from KDU-ČSL to bring proposals here to the House which will reflect the election program KDU-ČSL and from opposition benches we will work together with colleagues to support the government where it will be creative. We will also work together in the form of amendments to create meaningful laws, just as we will put forward our parliamentary bills. At the same time, however, we will, and I want to stress this, also very consistently defend everything where the government is going to break down, we will be a wall where the government is recording its own business or other interests, and we will very hard defend everything that could undermine this country's democratic principles. [[21.00 hours]] Dear colleagues, July 11, 2018 may one day be included in the textbooks of the modern history of the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, I am convinced that not as a day memorable. Unfortunately, even if this government is more successful, the fact that KSČM sits behind her neck that this government has brought KSČM's velvet revolution to a share in government for the first time, no one will take it away, just as there will always be doubts about its emergence or clear facts about the huge conflict of interests not only the Prime Minister of this government. Despite recognising the expertise and efforts of some government officials, the Czech Government cannot and will not gain my trust today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u145	Thank you, too. Another is Mr Žáček and Mrs Kovářová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u146	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully since this morning, and I would like to make a very brief comment on what is most disputed here, the Government's programming statement. I think it's all there and nothing at the same time. I would mention only two points which are not entirely clear to me, namely that in the section Defence Policy and the Army of the Czech Republic and Homeland Security and Public Administration, responsibility for anti-terrorist intelligence is obviously switched, or this implies some changes in the transfer from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Defence, respectively. under government control. Second: Cooperation with foreign partners is repeated several times in both of these chapters, knowing how sensitive this area is and how sensitive our foreign partners perceive some insensitive personnel changes at the head of some of our security forces. I would also like to mention one thing very briefly, namely the form of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš's speech. I think the form was horrible, I think undignified to the political format of the presentation of the government's programming statement. I think it would be possible to pay more attention next time, for example, to keep the Czech language from being offended. As Petr Fiala pointed out in the morning, what is important and perhaps most important is what is not actually in the programming declaration, i.e. - and several of my previous speakers came across - what was all part of the agreement with the KSČM, the part that we do not know, which is not public and which may have been unwritten. If we could read from what the interests of the KSČM in relation to the past were in the past, the question should first be whether there were illustrations or not. deletion of the rendering laws from our legislation, i.e. the opening of the state administration or at least its top representatives or members of the Communist Party. Other things that lay at the heart of the Communists were some laws, such as the law on the injustice of the Communist regime and opposition to it or the law on the Third Resistance. Then also memory institutions - Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, Archive of Security Forces. Maybe I could take a little turn here. In the past, digitization was destroyed, so now I'm kind of ironically saying that I'm looking forward to the situation being corrected and put back into its original state. The Office of Documentation and Investigation of Crimes of Communism - today, though toothless, but at some point it was the aim of the political attacks of the KSČM. Another thing we could talk about is that today KSČM presents itself as if it were created at the beginning of 1990, which we all know is not true. What must be said is that she has been able to defend her interests very successfully since then, not only for members of the party nomenclature, members of former communist power forces, etc., and even brought the situation to such perfection that, at a time when she had the worst - that is, in the October 2017 elections last year - the election result, so she managed to gain the greatest share of power, today it will probably be confirmed, since 1989. It may be said that the Communists are able to defend their political interests very successfully under any circumstances, even in a situation where the link with the past is absolutely clear. Even by keeping the name of the Communist Party and not giving up the connection to their bloody past, they have sent a clear signal to the democratic public that they do not want to transform and that there is a very strong link. After almost 30 years since November 1989, I think it is the creation of a semi-communist government thrown gloves on all those who overthrow the communist regime in November 1989 on the streets of all Czech and Slovak cities. Failure to do so is also disrespect towards the dead, other victims of the communist regime, which we know were hundreds and thousands, affected by hundreds of thousands, all those who today are recognised as fighters of the anti-communist regime, opponents of resistance and resistance, and all those who have fallen for freedom and democracy in our homeland. Rehabilitation of communists, their legitimization, participation in power, I see as a form of revans in November 1989. All of this is happening this year's 8th year. We started in February this year with changes in the first security corps, with a certain parallel with February 1948. It is necessary to mention the violent merger of Social Democrats with communists in connection with 1948. Another reminder is coming, in August we will have a round anniversary of the occupation, i.e. the situation where the Communists led us and the occupation of five armies of the Warsaw Pact. And the current KSČM are the followers of those collaborators who welcomed the welcomers of Soviet tanks, because the others from the Communist Party left or were expelled after 1968. I believe that it is a dangerous combination of possible non-ideological purpose procedure by Andrej Babiš, as we have seen in recent months in the area of security forces, that is to say changes in GIBS, planned or planned changes at the Police Presidium, exchange, departure of the director of the Prague police, NCOZ, that is to say nonideological power effect and at the same time ideological action of communists. These two factors can create a dangerous and banged mixture in the future. And it is a question of whether social democracy and, in particular, the Minister of the Interior, Hamáček will withstand the pressure for further changes. Very detailed, I repeat again, I listened, and what did I not hear from the representatives of the KSČM? I have not heard a hint of humility, which, by the way, is a popular word these days, we hear it from all sides, repentance, attempt to apologize to all those to whom their predecessors have done something to the Communist Party, even sign up for parliamentary democracy. What did they sign up for? Only the parliamentary procedures to lead them to a share of power today. In fact, out of all their public speeches, not only here in the Chamber of Deputies, but beyond it, there was only a desire for power. That's all. So again, the question has not been answered whether and what are the parts of the unwritten part of the agreement between Andrej Babiš and the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, whether it is not the opening of security forces, which is related to the illustrations, former members of the Communist Party, did not tell former members of the Communist security forces. Because if that were the case, then it would only be a situation that would be very serious and that we should be afraid of. The last anniversary to be mentioned is 1918. All of this is happening against the background of a hundred years of the emergence of our statehood, our republic. A republic that, of course, had an ambivalent relationship with the communists. Once she left them in parliamentary life, if they crossed a legal line, the Gottwaldův boys were expelled from the Chamber of Deputies and had to go underground. In any case, if they all refer to the Masarykův Republic today, then the communists were the gravediggers of Masarykův's first-class democracy after 1945, respectively. definitely in February 1948. [[21.10 hours]] Finally, I ask: Do we want to repeat the same mistakes? Why should we repeat our own history over and over again? Have we forgotten all this? Haven't we learned our lesson? Let us finally take seriously our recent bitter national experience, the consequences of which we are still dealing with. Until now, we have tried to correct them. Let's vote with discretion, that's against this government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u147	Thank you. Mrs Kovářová will now appear, Mr Skopeček will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u148	Dear colleagues, I have been bitten through the government's programming statement for several times this weekend. I'll admit it's very nice to read. But there's only one problem, not a big one. [[Not irrelevant?]] I have been in the House for the second term, so I remember a little something. Although this is not much compared to some of the more experienced colleagues, it has helped me enough to read the program statement. For example, the government's statement states that the government wants to start reconstructions of monuments in all regions. And so I ask, why so late? Why didn't the government try more tangiblely during the last parliamentary term when it was in practically the same composition? Did YES and ČSSD complicate their efforts by then Minister of Culture Herman? I doubt it. In the Prime Minister's speech today, it was said that more than a billion crowns would come to 40 state monuments. And I ask, how many more than 40,000 cultural monuments will come up? The Prime Minister always said that if we had a problem, we might as well approach him in the hallway and ask him how he would handle it. So I asked him, and the answer was that there's probably no more money for the 40,000 cultural monuments. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister probably left. And I would very much like either him or the Minister of Culture to tell us whether the 40,000 cultural monuments will include at least CZK 300 million in addition, so that the cultural heritage programs will receive CZK 1 billion in total. If not, I think you haven't listened well to the President today, who said that cultural monuments are the first place. That's why I'd like to ask both gentlemen for an answer. The government also promises to deliver high-speed internet networks across the Czech Republic. In the past period, I repeatedly intersected the ministers of industry and trade on European money for the fast Internet. They say everything's okay, everything's okay, and I'm scaring the shit out of it. I think it turns out I wasn't scared. The parties behind us now promise to make a digital revolution. I think it would be a win if this digital revolution succeeded. The chapter to the right is dedicated to two and a half pages. Once again, you have forgotten that the amendment misleading the possibility of taking a driving licence even outside of your permanent residence and not having to carry a photograph with you has already been accepted and that at this moment it is even effective. But looking at this situation, it is hard to believe the promises in that chapter. Once again, I hope that promises to build 100 km of new highways will be made and that will be the case. Because if we average it, you have more than 30 km of highways coming out for those four years. And I don't think it's that big of a number. Of course, discounts for seniors and students and students will not tear everything out, because the basis would be to put money in railway infrastructure. Because if you give discounts, you have to ensure that those who use these discounts have something to drive, that trains will not drive at slow speeds. Lists of tracks where 40-, 30- or 50-km speeds will be driven are known. But just so I don't criticize. Of course, I appreciate the fact that there has been a criterion within the budgetary determination of taxes that takes into account the number of pensioners in the region. I also do not criticize and commend that it is good that you want to deal with the situation in the Czech Post. I quote from the government statement: "It is necessary for Czech Post to increase the availability and efficiency of its services in smaller municipalities, not only through traditional forms of service, but mainly through the use of new digital forms of optimized processes in accordance with the dynamically changing needs of the population." Perhaps it would be good for the Minister to explain to us what the passage - I quote - "with the use of new digital forms of optimized processes in line with the dynamically changing needs of the population" actually means what can be expected of the government. And I must say that I did not understand this passage very much, and I would like an explanation. My conclusion is this. I think the government's programming statement is an essay exercise that deserves a grade one. As a real political plan, the government's programming statement is unclassifiable. And my last question is, will this government be working or travelling? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u149	Thank you. Mr Skopeček is next, Mr Čižinský will prepare. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u150	Thank you very much. Good evening. I have prepared about an hour's speech, however, given the advanced times, I will try to highlight only the most important things from each page, but let me inform you why the government of Andrej Babiš will not get my vote at the end of today. Before I get to those reasons and try to talk about some points in that programming statement, let me stop by this morning, at the beginning of our meeting, when President Zeman spoke here. I do not agree with him quite often, however, when he says the thing that is true, of course I will not and priori disagree with him. I find it stupid, irresponsible and absurd. I agreed with Mr. President today on one thing or two. The first thing is that the government should manage a balanced budget at a time of economic growth. At the very least, the President said that he could manage even a slight surplus. To my surprise, the President of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip, who also said that it would also be good to have a lower deficit. [[21.20 hours]] At this point, I would like to call on the President to see one very easy way to ensure that next year's budget is balanced, namely when he tells the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the government in advance that he will simply not sign the State Budget Act, which would be deficit-free. After all, the President showed his integrity when he did not name or accept the Foreign Minister. I think, if the President is serious about public finances, so if he puts forward such serious, important information that he simply does not sign a deficit budget, in my opinion, the government will not allow itself to approve such a budget at a time of economic growth. If she had not accepted the President's comments, there is room for President Vojtěch Filip and, in fact, for the entire MP's club to vote on the budget, which seems to have a deficit of CZK 50 billion to simply not join and also vote against. This, too, is a way to increase the likelihood that we will manage a balanced budget in the coming year. It's just for the opening of the meeting. I think it's pretty good that the President said it and that we have a chance to challenge him like this, and I believe if he's serious about balanced public budgets, he'll do it. Just as he told the government he wasn't naming Minister Poche, I believe he'd tell the government he wouldn't sign the budget if the government approved him with a 50-billion-dollar deficit. If he doesn't, his performance tonight was merely a political dance before the vote on trust and such an effort to evolve from being involved in the formation of actually extremely leftist or most leftist government since November 1989, which has been leaning on communists. My reasons for not supporting this government. The first one is bizarre in my opinion. I can't imagine at all, and I think it's the first time in history that the government has come to ask for trust at a time when it isn't complete. At a time when we simply do not have a full foreign minister, which I, along with the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance, consider to be the most key ministerial ministries that decide on internal and external security, about our international anchor, I really cannot believe that the Prime Minister and the Government have the audacity to appear before the MP when it is incomplete. When we look at the programme statement, the chapter on foreign policy, we see and we can read that one of the main objectives of this government is to fight for the interests of Czech citizens in the European Union, page 2 of the programme statement. We don't just want to nod to Brussels, page 3. However, we will be actively involved in the ongoing debate on the deepening of economic and monetary union in the EU as far as possible. And another quote from the Foreign Policy chapter. The government will respond more proactively and more flexibly to current foreign policy problems or threats such as illegal migration or terrorism. End of quotations on foreign policy. How does the government want to do that when the Secretary of State has a part-time job? How are we supposed to take these sentences seriously in the programming statement? It's ridiculous! Political games between the parties and the Castle and the inability of Prime Minister Babiš to present to us a full government with all the ministers and absolutely key ministries that require full deployment and full time job, so in my opinion is a threat to national security and our national interests. And only because the government is only able to risk these key things because it is dealing with various challenges both within social democracy and between each other and the Castle, so only because it is willing to risk our foreign political and national interests, so it does not deserve the support of the Chamber of Deputies. I am not even talking about the fact that, in a normal political system, in a normal democratic political system, there is a system of brakes and contradiction between individual institutions, which is crashed in this case, because the accumulation of ministries of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is such a concentration of political power that, in my view, this system of brakes and contradictions is significantly deflecting. Speaking of foreign policy, the programming statement also states - let me quote: The reform of the European Union is a prerequisite for restoring the confidence of the citizens of the Union in the European project. The Government of the Czech Republic will be actively involved in this reform debate. The European Union must do less, but much better. It must accentuate the strengthening of the role of the Member States. - I confess that I agree with this sentence in the Government's programming statement and that I would sign that sentence. I also think it is time to rethink the powers that we have transferred from that national level to Brussels, that it is worth doing inventory and, in some ways, to try where it is effective and where we can do it better, more efficiently at national level, to try to get those powers that we once passed back to the national level. But I would like to ask, in this context, when I read it in the programming statement, if it is also the political priority of social democracy, which is in charge of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, today with the provisional minister, and in the coming weeks or months, hopefully there will be a new minister, I really want to ask Minister Hamáček if he agrees with this thesis. Because as a member of the Committee on European Affairs, when I listen to my colleagues over the various materials concerning the EU, I feel the opposite of the Social Democrats. I feel an effort to move forward with this integration, to deepen European integration, to transfer further powers from national to transnational level. I do not criticise this in this sense, although I have a different opinion, but I respect a number of Social Democrats for being pro-integration, for wanting further deep steps in European integration, for wanting the euro and other things. However, I want to ask them whether they are able to sign this sentence in the programming statement and whether they will trust the government with this knowledge. And whether the minister who comes after Jan Hamáček will respect this sentence in the programming statement. Because I appreciate it, I agree with it, but I want to hear a real opinion from social democracy, whether the nominated minister will also promote it, as stated in the programme statement, that it is better to go back a little bit in this integration, some of the powers to return and strengthen the Member States. Please - I don't know if a double minister sits here, doesn't sit here, but I beg him very much, or someone in social democracy, to answer if he agrees with this item in the programming statement. I do, but I'm surprised that even the Social Democrats who have always looked very pro-integrationally. It's for foreign policy. Now, let me say in particular about the economic part of the programming statement, which I consider to be a priority, because, of course, our country needs to be stable, to make it rich, to make its people rich, to make our economy survive a possible economic crisis, we simply need to have our economy in order. And if that's what we want, in my opinion, we need to put together public finances. These are in structural trouble today. Just because we manage relatively best today compared to other EU countries does not mean that if there is no economic downturn, our public finances will remain in the same condition as they are today. They won't stay, we'll go into deficit immediately. After all, we had a slightly surplus last year's budget not because the government was doing great, but because it could not invest budget money. The structural problem of public finances is its spending party, not the income party, as the YES movement has been trying to tell us for years. The spending party has been incredibly swell for the last few years, and I fear that no minister for the ANO movement has had anything to do with the spending party of our public finances, which is what the programming statement also shows. I also think that our taxes are unnecessarily high and complex, i.e. demotivating people from activity. After all, international organizations such as the World Bank also state the complexity of the tax environment. How many times have we heard from the YES movement, Andrej Babiš, that it wants to simplify the tax system. However, the opposite is happening. I will remind you that another VAT rate has been added to us, and, according to the current programming statement, the government wants to anchor the second rate of personal value added tax for fellow citizens making more money, so it wants to punish more active and educated fellow citizens, which, of course, is unacceptable to me. And trying to do, or anchor, the progressiveness in our tax system, which was planned only for a limited period of time during the crisis, is also a very strong reason for me not to vote in favour of this government today. [[21.30 hours]] Let us not get drunk with a roll when Andrej Babiš says so, and today he also said that we are reducing and wanting to lower taxes, not so. After all, we remember how the YES movement rejected our proposals to abolish the road tax, to abolish the real estate tax, and how they opposed our demand for VAT reduction to the original level after the abolition of the pension reform, for which this tax was increased. In short, Andrej Babiš and the ANO movement love state redistribution, which is why they love high and complex taxes, and that is why we will not receive any reduction or simplification of the tax system. It's an illusion to think otherwise. We have a four-year experience with them, and we know how it turned out. I think that pension reform is a major priority for the Czech Republic in economic terms, and not only pension reform, but actually a solution to the ageing of our population, which also affects the health system and social services. What the YES and ČSSD movements, which will form with the support of the communists in this area, have managed over the last few years. It's very simple. The YES movement and the Social Democrats have succeeded in abolishing Nečasův' pension reform, and nothing has happened in this area. However, today the programme statement states that pension reform is needed and that the pension reform should be the basis of the pension account separation from the state budget. This accounting operation is to be a reform. What nonsense is this? Does it really matter if we have two or one account with the same amount of pension money? Does that change the sustainability of the current ongoing pension system? Of course, it doesn't make him sustainable at all, but it doesn't make him anything. It's an accounting operation, and it doesn't matter if we redistribute the same amount of money through one state budget or through two budgets, a separate pension budget. Of course, we'd need a lot more than that. We need to stop supporting multinational corporations and give more room to our domestic business entities. This is the only way to return the trend of the dividend drain abroad, which amounted to 276 billion in 2017. Crowns. This is a huge number that will flow from the Czech Republic to abroad. It's about 8.3 percent of gross domestic product. However, in order to succeed in strengthening Czech capital in our economy, so that Czech capital and its importance in the Czech economy grow and the dividend drain is as small as possible, we would need to dramatically deregulate the business environment and not to transfer to our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs the huge administration that grew in the previous government. And unfortunately, I expect nothing else from the new government. After all, trying to stop our efforts to re-enact spending flats for businessmen is sufficient proof of this. [[Busy in the hall. Some Members debate in a row.]] May I have a moment of peace, Mr President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so that the Member may argue that those who are interested can hear it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u152	I can say it again from the beginning so you can hear it again when you're not paying attention. So the end of investment stories and the attempt to deregulate the business environment, in my opinion, is an important way to strengthen Czech capital in our economy and those dividends that are currently flowing from the Czech Republic abroad in hundreds of billions of dollars to be lower. We would also need to liberalize the labour market, make short-time work more attractive. Not, as it is written in the programming declaration, to address the way minimum wages grow. Today, everyone knows that the labour market is incredibly overheated, tense, that our entrepreneurs, our employers, have a huge shortage of labour. They have a huge problem getting anyone into their job. And if we don't make it easier for them by, for example, making our jobs less attractive and extending the possibility of using them, this is going to be one factor that's going to hinder our economy. It is one of the most important parameters that are causing problems for our economy today, and why the economy cannot grow even faster than it is growing. We would also need to address this, and I consider this to be a really big, big problem especially for the young generation, we need to address the unhappy situation on the housing market. I mean, in particular, high prices of real estate. I think this problem is on the side of the offer. Unfortunately, there is a shortage of new flats, and the only way to solve the problem on the supply side is not to build state apartments, municipal flats or urban ones, but to free up the rules, if possible, so that the private sector, as it has done in recent years, can build more apartments. Of course, this means simplifying the construction process and, in particular, liberalising territorial planning. I'm sure the private sector can build real estate and flats better and more efficiently than it could. The Prime Minister here spoke of it in presenting the programming statement. He said it wasn't supposed to be the state, it was the towns and villages. I would like to tell him that cities and municipalities are a state, that this is just another level of government, but that the city is also a public sector. And in my opinion, the role of the public sector, the role of cities and municipalities in housing should only be taken as an insurance policy, when cities own a few flats for the sudden lives of their citizens. Please don't start building urban housing funds again. I don't think that's the right way to go. We could go on like this for a long time, but it doesn't make much sense. The government will anyway forget the programming declaration at the latest tomorrow morning, as it forgot the previous programming statement. Whatever is written or not written in that programming statement, we know, thanks to the architecture of that government, that it will be the most extreme left-wing government since 1989. If he gains confidence, it will be a defeat for the freedom of active individuals who rely on themselves and not on the state. Unfortunately, there are other regulations, other bans, other sanctions and snooping that the YES movement has been so fond of in recent years and which, with the help of the communists, will certainly be even more intense. I also do not hear from the government any attempt to defend any traditional values on which our successful European civilizations have grown. For me, the problem is that the government has refused to define marriage as an exclusive union between a man and a woman. This is symbolic proof for me that this government will give the progressive leftist agenda the green light. And because I value freedom, I do not want regulation because I want a more liberal business environment and I want to defend the traditional values that have grown up in our successful European civilizations, this government cannot get a vote from me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u153	Thank you. First, Prime Minister Bělobrádek, after whom Minister Schillerová, will speak with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u154	Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I have two things to say. First of all, I'd like to take a message to Mr. Babiš from the people outside that they'd like to talk to him. I promised them, so I do. And the other thing. I'd still like to respond to my colleague Skopeček. I think it's such a cliché that only those who are more active and educated take higher salaries. I think it's a little insulting to those who work with higher education degrees, for example in social services, basically teachers, etc., who really don't have high salaries, and they're certainly not stupid or sloppy or lazy. So I don't think that's the way to put it. I don't think the person with a high salary doesn't mean he's more educated and active than, for example, the people who work in the public sector. And if he's an archivist or if he's a social worker, I don't think that's how it works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u155	Mr Skopeček will respond with a factual remark before the Minister. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u156	I want to respond to my colleague, White Bělohrádek. I have to say that my mom is a teacher, my sister is a teacher, my sister's husband is a teacher, and I am well aware that they had to have a not simple university education, and that, in my opinion, both my mom and my sister and her sister's husband deserve higher salaries. And believe me, I appreciate any work, whatever it is, a job that requires a college education, but I appreciate very much the people who work with their hands. I myself am quite a clumsy person, so all the more I admire people who have craftsmanship to produce and do things. I really admire that. So on my part, it certainly wasn't underestimating these people. However, we economists work with average numbers, there's no other way. And when you look at what groups of residents take the highest salaries, in the vast majority they are the most qualified. That's where my note was headed, not there to insult people who may not have a college degree. I've never distinguished people like that. I've met good people, decent people, good people, rude people, and it's never really related to the degree of education they've received.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u157	With a point of fact - I apologise to the Minister - President Bělobrádek will now respond, followed by Prime Minister Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u158	Thank you. My name is Bělobrádek. That's one thing. And the other. I'm just pointing out it's such a cliché. That taxation of those who have higher incomes, that they are the more active and educated, which you have clearly said here, so it seems that those who take less are uneducated or less active. It doesn't really work like that. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I called you right, so that note couldn't relate to me. Now the Prime Minister has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u160	Thank you. Mr. Bělobrádek, I just want to ask you to say hello to the protesters that I can't make it. Because we have to ask even if we want to go to the bathroom. It's a resolution, so we have to sit here. We can only go to the bathroom with the approval of the chairman. So tell the protesters I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u161	With factual remarks, the Members will now speak in the following order - President Stanjura, President Kalousek, Mr Jurečka, Mr Čižinský. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u162	In fact, I can make a procedural proposal. Prime Minister Babiš obviously wants to go to protestors. The resolution doesn't allow it. However, I'm making a procedural motion to interrupt our negotiations for 15 minutes, and you can go between them if you're not afraid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u163	I take it as a procedural motion for us to cut the negotiations for 15 minutes. I shall vote immediately on this proposal. [[Gong.]] I have called the Members who are in the lobby, and I repeat that we will vote on the proposal to suspend the negotiations for 15 minutes. Initiating vote. Who's in? - There's a checkout request. So I declare this vote invalid. I'm shutting you all out. Please log in with your voting cards again. I am now opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number five. 148 Members registered, for 47, versus 78. The proposal has not been adopted, so we will continue the debate. With a factual remark, President Kalousek is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say that this vote was absolutely unfair, beyond any rules of decent conduct. The Prime Minister here has stepped up and complained about how he would like to go out among the protesters, but he cannot, for he is regulated by the rules of procedure, by the rules of our actions, by his own urination. And President Stanjura tried to accommodate him at that moment and suggested a 15-minute break so that the Prime Minister could come out as he wished. I've been among them, too, and I know they wish they had. So they would have wanted much more if the Prime Minister had gone farther than he did and never came back. [[Laugh from the right side of the hall.]] But that's another thing. But it just isn't fair for the Prime Minister here to say, "I want to be among the protesters, but I can't because the House Rules of Procedure don't allow me to do so," and the House doesn't allow him to do so. I therefore very much ask that you comply with the Prime Minister's wishes, and I would like to make a procedural motion to interrupt our negotiations for 14 minutes, and the Prime Minister could go and greet those protestors as he wished. And if you don't vote for him, it's only because it was a cowardly alibi statement from him, not a wish to come out among those protestors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u165	President Kalousek's procedural proposal was made to suspend our negotiations for 14 minutes. It is a proposal that I will again put to the vote immediately. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number six. 154 Members are registered, for 56, against 80. The motion was denied. I will ask the President whether he is reporting with a factual remark or with a preferential right. [[♪ White, white, white,]] [[With priority rights.]] With priority rights. Then I must prefer the Minister Schillerová, who is registered. But with a factual remark, President Stanjura has in the meantime come forward, so he takes precedence with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u166	It happens sometimes to Andrej Babiš that the club doesn't listen to him, doesn't it? [[Laugh from the right side of the hall.]] It's not the first time, it's happened about twice in history. He wanted to be a pro, and the club overruled him. Now he wants between protestors and the club obviously doesn't want to. Well, it happens to everyone, I guess that's normal. They say they're a democratic movement, so let's trust them at this point. Such a helpful move by the opposition. I request a 20-minute break at the ODS Club meeting. You may go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u167	There was a request for a break for a meeting of the Civic Democratic Party. I accept this request and interrupt the Chamber of Deputies for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a nice late evening, so we will continue the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies after the break requested by the ODS. I would ask the members of the government to take their seats. Mr Kalousek was the first to make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the sense of the Rules of Procedure, I am responding to the speech of my fellow President Stanjura, who requested a 20-minute break so that the Prime Minister can come out to the public. According to the information we have, the Prime Minister looked out on the street, and when he saw that the crowd wasn't inclined to talk to him, maybe he'd talk me out of it, just like he came back without talking to those people. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Prime Minister, I'm sorry, that's not how a man behaves. A guy talks to people who have a different opinion. You run from people who have a different opinion, perjure your children's health, cheat, whine, whine. [[Punching into benches mostly from the left side of the hall.]] You're doing everything you can to... Mr President, I ask you to deduct my time while undisciplined Members are beating on the benches.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u170	Okay, I'm gonna oblige you, Mr. Ambassador, and I'm gonna set the time to give you two minutes to make your point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u171	Thank you. Prime Minister, you do everything a normal man doesn't do. You're afraid of people with other opinions, whining, whining, perjuring on the health of your children, cheating and whining. [[Punching in the bench.]] Czech Republic... [[He's drunk, stop it. Laughter and applause for a part of Members.]] The Czech Republic deserves a prime minister who carries the name of a man. That is not you, and that is also one of the reasons why you cannot be trusted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u172	That was Chairman Kalousek. And Prime Minister Babiš with priority rights, so time is not limited. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u173	I'd like to thank the ODS for the break. I went among the protesters. I don't know how drunk Kalousek is today. Maybe the same as they did out there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u174	Please address yourself only through the President, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u175	Yeah, he's as drunk as usual. Thief thief. You're not gonna insult me. [[Punching into the benches from the right side of the hall.]] You're not talking about my kids!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u176	Please, let us use decent terms and address ourselves only through the President, or I will be forced to take your word away.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u177	I can speak directly to them, Mr President. [[No!]] So I went out with the protesters, and I wanted to talk to them. And what did I want to show them? Well, let all citizens see it! [[He's showing some paper.]] What is this, this? [[Then he speaks with an elevated voice.]] Thursday, August 24, 2006, 15:43. [[It increases the intensity of speech.]] Kalousek is for the government with the ČSSD tolerated communists, sir! You've been talking about communists all day? [[Let's hear it.]] Chairman of KDU-ČSL Miroslav Kalousek agreed on Thursday with the Czechoslovak Chief Jiří Paroubek's invitation to discuss the joint government. Kalousek would not mind the tolerance of such a government by KSČM and the KDU-ČSL Bureau supported them in this. According to KSČM Vice-President Jiří Dolejš, Communists would probably allow the emergence of the government of ČSSD and folklore. We talked about the possibility of coalition cooperation. It would be a minority government looking for support across the political spectrum. In the case of communists, I assume some form of creation, Kalousek said after negotiations with Paroubek. [[22.10 hours]] So what are you talking about all day?! Here it is. [[He's showing the paper he just quoted from.]] Black and white. And I'm a team of protesters who wanted to read it. They screamed and started throwing bottles at me! Your protesters! You were there today. Aren't you excited? They were rocking your name, Mr. Kalousek. Well, what kind of hypocrisy is that? Why are we talking about communists all day? Why? You wanted to do the same thing with them! No, you even wanted the government! We have only tolerance. So that's one thing. I've been there before. Then make sure your friends don't yell and throw bottles at me. And then I'm begging you to do that StB thing. Couldn't Mr. žáček go out to those protestors and tell them what happened to the POLISTOD commission? Why did it take you 14 years to open the volumes of StB? Why did the Minister of Interior destroy and shred 25,000 volumes for KDU-ČSL? Why? Why were the chandeliers supposedly sold for 200 grand? What were you doing here after the revolution? This thief won't blame me for anything. [[Turns to Kalousek and points to him]] I was terrorized by the aesthetics for not buying phosphate from Syria. Why? [[Increased voice:]] Because his friend, his family, Háva was selling tanks! A personal friend of the Asad family! [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] And his, he who robbed the Department of Defense and killed people through parachutes, so when the Secretary of State used Šlechtová talk about the webs, his company still does business there. Who are they representing? The Swedish radar prototype? Or the august? Then let Mr. Kalousek admit where he keeps the companies with the billions. He's not gonna tell me about StB! I won the trial three times! So go tell the protest team. [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] And me? We had three emigrations in the family! And my dad couldn't go professionally because my mom's brother left on August 21, 1968 when the Russians took us. You're not gonna tell me about the aesthetics! [[Member Bartošek shouts out from his seat: Stick to the Rules of Procedure! The law applies to everyone!]] He won't tell me about it! Yeah? [[Other cries of several Members from the right side of the hall. Prime Minister Babiš is screaming to drown them and hear them.]] And I won the trial! And a thief like that won't insult me here! The symbol of corruption! [[Mr Bartošek again requests loudly that the Prime Minister comply with the Rules of Procedure.]] So let Mr. Žáček go tell them. And I won the trial. And I sued the Slovak Republic for the European Court of Human Rights. I'm gonna win this! So you're not gonna bitch me in the aesthetics! I wasn't an aesthetic! [[There's a woman's voice screaming from the right side of the hall:]] And I'm gonna have someone talk about my kids! Everything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u178	The Prime Minister's performance has brought down a number of factual points. So Mr Plzák wanted to comment. Mr Svoboda, Mr Výborný, Mr Jurečka and Mr Žáček will then be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have such a request for you. I don't know if these people out there are cheering for Croatia or England, but they definitely cheer so vehemently that there's no gong on the terrace. If it's possible to engage more than once before any procedural vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u180	I'll be sure to oblige. Thanks for the heads-up, of course. So if we vote, I'm gonna do it more times, and we're still gonna wait. So another point of fact, Mr. Mr. Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And Mr. Výborný will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to address all members of the club YES through you. You just proved how closely you are connected to the Communist Party. My grandfather was an employee of the Chamber of Deputies. First, when the Communists disagreed with something, they took the axes and split the benches. When they gave it to them to bill, they stopped. That was the exact same act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u182	Thank you. There will now be a sequence of factual remarks: Mr Výborný, Mr Jurečka, Mr Bartoš and then Mr Žáček. Please, you have the floor. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, I think that - and I will try to speak very calmly - it does not matter whether you are a Prime Minister or a mere MP, but I would consider it quite standard that you should behave appropriately here, not to call Members and the like. We do, or we should have some basics of political culture. And you're breaking them from and to the z's, which you just did on your last performance. And if you're recalling any history here, then remember how quickly Miroslav Kalousek, headed by KDU-ČSL, ended. And I didn't notice anyone from the movement against your conspiracy with the KSČM.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u184	Next in order for a factual remark - please speak to Mr Jurečka, then Mr Bartoš, then Mr Žáček and Mr Hájek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u185	Dear colleagues, Mr President, I would like to ask a few things. It's late hour, and we've been acting late. But first, I'd like the management meeting to do its duty and run the meeting. And the moment someone on this counter doesn't fill the Rules of Procedure to enter into it. [[22.20 hours]] The second thing is that Miroslav Kalousek was mentioned here as the then president of KDU-ČSL. His intended support and cooperation with the communists took him exactly six days. Within six days KDU-ČSL responded to this by calling an extraordinary national conference and it was over. On the side of the YES movement, I did not notice a single vote today by a single member who would say, "We don't mind." If at least it was said, "We don't mind, but we understand that the situation is like this." But none of you stepped out here and said why you supported the government, what you're proud of in that government. I haven't heard a single member of the ANO movement here talking about why this coalition government is a good project for them. Four years ago, the coalition MPs who defended the government were here defending the program. They were defending why the government came into existence. I didn't hear anybody here except the MPs for the KSČM. And one last thing. Dear Prime Minister, when I arrived this afternoon, I heard from your mouth behind my back: Fuck you! I don't know who you meant and what context it was. But a statesman and a prime minister can be seen by the fact that even in tense situations, they can keep their nerves in check, behave themselves, and they're above things. That is what I am asking you to do on behalf of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u186	Thank you. In this regard, I would like to say that according to our interpretation, and we have also consulted on the leadership of the House, the Prime Minister can address the Members directly. So I only wanted you in this case... It's our interpretation, we've consulted here, and so it's like this. Members do not, but the Prime Minister is not a Member and can address directly. So it's just about that remark from the esteemed Mr Jurečka. And now I will ask Mr Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u187	Thank you for your word. Just for a very short time. Although the age and calm of some people is sometimes highlighted against the young restless boys and girls here in the House, I think that just when someone's nervous, they can fly away a little bit and it will happen. I would like to ask the Prime Minister not to reduce the House's negotiations to his personal conflict with Mr Kalousek. In fact, this conflict was accompanied by the policy of the first onset of YES. And in order to note that even the pirát, who were not historically involved in stealing this country, did not bully anyone before 89 years, nor did they negotiate with anybody the government and act somewhere in some scheming, so that they also criticize the way in which the government, such as the government, was set up here, was asking us. So please don't reduce this negotiation to some conflict between Kalousek and Babiš. We are here acting as the House, in which there are several political parties, and it bothers me that it becomes a word fight for the media again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u188	Thank you and now I would like to ask for Mr Žáček's speech. Mr. Vice-President Pikal, we are on a factual note, so unfortunately you have priority over priority rights. So Mr. Mr. Žáček will actually be prepared and Mr. Hájek will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u189	Thank you for the floor. I'm wondering if I should take some more time, 'cause I need more than two minutes to retell the history of opening ties to State Security. Anyway, in 1991, the rendering law blocked the opening of these archives. Only in 1996 were they partially opened, then in 2002 at the initiative of the Senate and finally in 2007, respectively. 2008 in the establishment of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes and the Archive of Security Forces. It was a long procedure. It's not related to the contents of these materials. I think it's really for a separate lecture, if there's still time tonight or tomorrow morning, I can do it, and if there's any interest, I can do it. However, I think that if the laws were followed here and not bent, the problem is elsewhere. I don't think you'd be able to be in your position if the laws of illustration were implemented and if the previous coalition hadn't bended the law of service because of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u190	Thank you. And now, my request for - I'll just read it, Mr. Ambassador, you'll have the floor in no time. Real remarks, therefore, by Mr Hájek, Mr Pikal, Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Kalousek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u191	Mr President, colleagues, I am sad because what I hear here today is, I do not want to say the word sad, but that is astonishing. That means we're dealing with the government's trust issue here today. Where did it go? It went all the way somewhere else. Did it turn out to be who? If communists, non-communists etc. I want to say what the Communists were doing here was wrong. But what was right? We are in such a situation today that there is a situation where we want to approve this government, and I want us to vote on it at last, about the government, and not about what we are discussing here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u192	Thank you and now, with a factual remark, Mr Pikal. Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Kalousek and Mr Bartošek also want to comment on the facts. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u193	Good evening. I didn't want to enter into this altercation, but I must say that I have a slightly different opinion than my fellow President. I believe that a Member should not turn directly to Members. And while a member of the government is a Member, he is also a Member and both aspects should apply to him. Plus, in a performance like this, I'd expect some sort of order measure. But I don't want to discuss the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u194	Thank you. I'll do it again, so let's discuss it with the organizational union. But we have consulted here, and the opinion of the House's leadership is that it can be addressed directly. Then, if here, I'd like to ask you to discuss politely if possible. And otherwise, of course, I will again have to call on the speaking Member to speak this way. So let's move on. Mr Ferjenčík, a factual remark. Mr Kalousek and Mr Bartošek will also be prepared. Mr. Ferjenčík, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u195	Thank you for the floor. For the Pirates Club. We think that Mr Kalousek and Mr Babiš belong to political retirement. And I'm just wondering if you've been calling each other that since you've been promoting biofuels here, which is a terrible crime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u196	Thank you. And now I will ask Mr Kalousek to speak and Mr Bartošek will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u197	Thank you. I beg your pardon that I was not present for a direct response. I have been subjected to tests that I will use to give the mandate and immune committee. However, as to what has been said in the meantime: When I was accused that in 2006 I was doing the same thing as Prime Minister Babiš was doing now, please don't! My colleagues at the KSČM will certainly testify to me that I had never discussed the government with them, that I had never signed anything with them. And when Mr. Výborný said so touchingly that notice how quickly KDU-ČSL turned on me, KDU-ČSL turned to me so that shortly after the 2006 elections, they asked me to be Minister of Finance for them in the Government of Mirek Topolánek, which I was happy to accept, and until the end of the term of office of this government I was the Minister of Finance for KDU-ČSL, which is not entirely a turnaround, I think. There is no doubt that this was a thoughtful move, which resulted in the right-wing government of Mirek Topolánek, where I had the honour of being Minister of Finance. Not a second was the government threatening to support the Communists! This may be the Prime Minister Babiš manipulating information as he pleases, historical facts are what I am telling you now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u198	Thank you for keeping time. I will then ask for Mr Bartošek's speech and prepare for Mrs Helena Langšádlová's factual comment. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u199	Thank you. This morning, Prime Minister, I spoke in my speech about the lack of decency, consideration, gentleness from the political environment of the Czech Republic. And I think you just showed your true face with your speech. It's you. A man who puts himself above the law because he thinks he's the rule. It is important to remember that the way you treat the House will also treat the citizens of the Czech Republic. Your arrogant behavior, your manners and your insults degenerate the Chamber of Deputies. You are the one who reduces the value of parliamentary democracy. You know, you can make up your mind by not being in StB all you want. But being with the Communists isn't gonna get you out of it. [[22.30 hours]] And one more thing I'd like to tell you. You know... Okay, I'm talking to you, you're not looking at me or this foundation of decency, you don't. Okay. [[The Prime Minister sitting in the front row at the club ANO is looking at the neighboring laptop and answering off the microphone: I'm watching football.]] You're watching football. This is more important to you than the House of Deputies. I think that's your card that says a lot more about you than anything else. That the Members who have been elected to the people of the Czech Republic are not even worth having an honest and fair debate with them. It's you, Prime Minister. You are a disgrace to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u200	Thank you for keeping time. And now I have two factual points. I call on Mrs Helena Langšádlová to prepare Mr Kováčik. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u201	Dear Prime Minister, when the aesthetics have been so damaging to you, I do not understand why you surround yourself with so many people associated with communist state security. I'm happy to send you a list of people close to you who are also - or their family members - on the list.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u202	Mrs Langšádlová and now, therefore, President Kováčik. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes. And this is now the final point in fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u203	I have been called upon to testify, so allow me to provide it very briefly, although I am surprised that this is where the request to the Communists comes from. We're good for you now, aren't we? [[Laughs in plenary.]] It certainly doesn't matter who had the telephone conversation with me about the government structure, because President Vojtěch Filip was somewhere abroad, and I, as the chairman of the MP's club not long serving at the time, was addressed by the emerging idea, one of the actors absolutely certainly, so what the Prime Minister here showed as a newspaper report or an article, so I testify that this was actually the case. The papers wouldn't even lie then, would they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u204	So it was Mr. Mr. Kováčik. So now we will return to the general debate as a standard, so I will ask for the speech of Mr Čižinský. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u205	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, dear citizens, let me begin by saying that the emerging government does not have my trust, I will vote against it because it is unacceptable. But I would like to ask you something that is extremely important to me and about which there is no word in this programming statement, and that is the relation to the public media, i.e. to Czech Television and Czech Radio, because it must be tempting for both communists and the ANO movement to influence public media in some way, or rather. tame. And the most recently proposed VAT adjustment is that Czech Television will lose 350 to 400 million crowns, Czech Radio will lose 100 million crowns. The Czech Radio even announced that it would be released. And I would like to ask, Prime Minister, whether you will continue your efforts to deprive the public media of funding, or whether in any way you will replace it, so that there is no reason or excuse to dismiss people from the public media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u206	Well, thank you. And now I would ask for Mr Mihola's speech and Mr Beitl will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u207	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, I am wondering what to do to calm the atmosphere. Perhaps I'd sing the post, but that would be by morning, that would be the opera. I'm gonna try to cut it a little short. It's normal. Like all other KDU-ČSL members, I will vote against the trust of the minority government, which is supported by the KSČM. The form of cooperation or tolerance is not so important. Most of all, in the year when we commemorate 100 years of our republic and everyone, including many members of the ANO movement, invokes the example of the first Republic, a party who has never fully renounced the principles that are in direct conflict with the democratic ideals on which the Republic was founded enters into the creation of our future. To create a minority government in situations where there are variants of a majority democratic government, and to secure it from the communists, I do not consider it a success, but a loss, or a failure, or even a tragedy. It is, in my opinion, merely the result of the capriciousness and self-centricity of individuals who are more concerned than a whole, more about themselves than about this country. The tolerance of a minority government strongly evokes the period of the opposition treaty. I know that this cessation of democracy has suited some, and it does not bother them at all, that we bear and feel the results of this political immorality today. A politician is supposed to be looking for solutions that are good for this country and its citizens, not those that fit it or make it easier. I will not go into the government's personnel composition in more detail. I expected much more, especially after heartbreaking statements about the government of experts, and I also expected that if we did not admit that we have a half-president system, the Prime Minister would be able to enforce his government as a whole, not in part. If this goes on, I fear that the next government will only come with half the ministers, but they will have to run two departments on a temporary basis, because their nominated colleagues will not be recognized by the President as appropriate. Like my colleagues, I am prepared for constructive opposition work. As Members, I am the closest to education, education, science and research. I am glad that education is identified as a priority in the government's programming declaration. At the same time, however, I fear that so many things are already identified as a priority that will actually be a puzzle of what the priority really is. I will be happy to support the Prime Minister's promise of 45 thousand salaries to teachers in the state budget. It is only a mystery to me if we are serious about why we did not start their implementation when approving the current state budget. Because there was a chance. I consider the Chapter of Education and Education in the programming declaration to be a fairly successful compilation from many political parties' programmes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u208	I would therefore ask for peace of mind with the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Ambassador... I would ask you once again to calm down so that the Member can speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u209	I am glad that people's priorities are not lost there, for example. revision of inclusion. However, I wonder what this revision will look like in the submission of two parties with a very different approach to this matter. I also report for support for other points that we had in the electoral programme, for supporting talented young people, for strengthening the position of school director, for reducing the bureaucratic burden on teachers or for highlighting practical education... Mr President, I don't know if I'm interrupting anything here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u210	There. I would really ask you once more to calm down. And who of the Members is dealing with matters other than the item we are discussing, I ask that it be dealt with outside the Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies. Well, Mr. Ambassador, I hope it's all right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u211	Thank you. And this is not yet explicitly included in the revision of compulsory mathematics, which the Minister of Education logically intends with regard to the unflattering results of the graduates. [[2.40 hours]] In any case, from time to time, I recommend that the programme statement be published so that after a few years the Prime Minister does not have to wonder, as this morning, why it has not moved, for example, with dual education. It was planned by the previous coalition, but, if I recall correctly, it was reminded only of the people. Literature about quality and fair funding is nice, but it is ruined by the fact that teachers of ecclesiastical schools, which are among the best and therefore the most desirable in the country, feel like second-class teachers due to the unsolved funding of ecclesiastical and private schools. All positive sentences about the preparation of future teachers and the improvement of the educational process will remain on the water unless there is a rapid increase in money for higher education institutions, with particular emphasis on teaching faculties and other faculties preparing future teachers. The Prime Minister promises 45,000 teachers in primary and secondary schools, which is certainly a good thing, but there's no mention of university teachers anywhere, no talk, and that's a little perverted. [[There's noise in the room.]] If we want to promote modern trends in education, let us also stress them more in conjunction with the digitalisation issue. Well, I'm glad she has a separate chapter there, I know about that, but it's needed in connection with the education. The drugs issue is also certainly worthy of emphasis. And if we do not want democracy to remain on paper in time, also civil education and other important literacy, especially financial. Colleagues, I'm really close to closing, but I need some peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u212	The Member asks me to set things straight, which is why I will ask you once more to calm down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u213	Thank you. In conclusion, from a completely different keg, i.e. traffic. A number of us are waiting for annabasis when moving on motorways and other roads and tracks. Trauma increases comparison with other countries: Austria, Germany, Croatia - now I have a recent experience - and others. Transport infrastructure is not exactly our pride, rather our shame. If the Prime Minister still eats when he accidentally sleeps and fits the dream of highways and express trains, I believe that the Ministry of Transport and the same minister will encourage better results than we have seen so far. I will vote against the Second Government of Andrej Babiš. At the same time, as an opposition Member, I am prepared to support all that is good for the citizens of our country, and I expect at least a solid welcome to the opposition proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u214	Thank you. Now I have one application with priority rights. Madam Secretary Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought I wasn't performing tonight, but I have to. Let me respond very briefly to Mr Čižinský, because that has really crossed the line. All I can do is recapitulate in a few sentences about the VAT and public Czech television. It is a completely substantive problem that has absolutely nothing to do with politics. And if yesterday you allowed the 2019 tax package to be discussed, where we correct what the former Chamber of Deputies illegally adopted against the European VAT Directive, you would have learned this explanation. So I'll tell you now. In essence, the last Chamber of Deputies approved a parliamentary proposal, a change in VAT, contrary to the directive of the European Union and threatened us for about one year. And I, at the time as the Deputy Minister for Taxation and Customs, was at x various meetings and committees, and I treated the Czech TV in a completely correct and factual manner, which no one can deny, that is an absolutely apolitical topic, explaining that the adjustment - and I will explain it very simply - simply it is not possible that it does not allow a harmonised tax such as VAT and the European directive. However, with the exception of the members of the YES who voted against, they had this expert opinion explained by me, all the Members voted in favour of this change at the time. So today we have provisions in the VAT Act that are contrary to the directive. And I, at that time as an assistant professor, was a material problem, I stress, I told the representatives of Czech Television under the leadership of the director that if I am going to do so even after the election, we must straighten this out, because we are simply at risk of infringement. The essence is this. Czech television has advertising revenues, they are of course regulated and are minimal, and majority revenues are obtained from licence fees. And essentially, the change that they have pushed through, which is contrary to the EU directive, is that everything is included in the taxable transactions in the tax base, and that is simply not possible. This is contrary to the directive, contrary to the constant case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. And I said at the time: we are going to process the regulation, we are going to straighten it out, we are going to define the remuneration, and we are going to put it into the law in accordance with the directive and the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and so it has, and so it is in the package. I constantly deal with the Czech Television, last meeting lasted three hours - expert teams of the Ministry of Finance and Financial Administration and expert teams of representatives of Czech Television, professional, tax advisors, their lawyers. We are looking for a solution in what to find the ratio, how to account for the ratio of these licence fees, but it cannot be 100% as the Czech Television wants it to be. So I'm going to give you the tax result. Czech television paid about 25 million VAT a month on average, and now it receives an average of 25 million VAT, and it is in contradiction. So we're looking for a path, we're flattening it, it's not a political problem. I'll tell you, the Czech Radio has the same problem. There I treated them exactly the same way and the representatives of the Czech Radio understood it and do not dispute it any further because they understand that they cannot want something that simply cannot be wanted. So we don't destroy Czech TV via VAT. I wouldn't have done anything like that on my conscience in my life. I've been acting right my whole life, and the director of Czech Television knows, and I've told him, and I'm sure he'll confirm that we'll just keep acting transparently, and we'll just fix this substantive problem of defining a bribe. It's in the package, and yesterday I would have explained it if I had a chance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u216	I thank the Minister. The performance brought down a number of factual points. Let me introduce you to the order. I have five requests for factual comments. It is Mr Ferjenčík as the first, Mr Výborný, Mr Čižinský, Mr Jurečka and Mrs Helena Langšádlová as the last. So, Mr. Ferjenčík, please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u217	Thank you for the floor. I must turn against the claim that the opposition has made it impossible to discuss the package. It was the YES movement along with the ODS and I suspect the ČSSD and the TOP 09 and STAN, but certainly not for example Pirates or KDU-ČSL, or even SPD, who was opposed to ending it. So you guys, like ANO, knocked that point out of the meeting program because you wanted to go on vacation. You're still admitting that we're at risk of infringement, that it's gonna cost us money, so you should pay for your salary, not blame the opposition for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u218	Mr. Ferjenčík. I will ask Mr Výborný to speak and Mr Čižinský will prepare himself. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u219	Thank you for the floor. It's just like my colleague said. I can say the numbers exactly. In the words of the Prime Minister, the ANO movement does not want to work. 48 votes to close the meeting, or to cut points, and we will not be working on Thursdays and Fridays. And I could go on like this, including nine votes of the ČSSD. If you had voted in favour, the things that the Minister here spoke about, and I would ask her not to wave to the public and say that this has not been discussed because of the opposition. It's not true. Whoever doesn't want to work is the YES movement. Simple.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u220	Thank you and I will now ask for the speech of Mr Čižinský, Mr Marian Jurečka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u221	Thank you. Just briefly. When public media loses money, it doesn't matter if it's technical, political or otherwise, they just don't have the money. The Czech Radio therefore justifies the dismissal of employees, which is unacceptable to me. And the question was whether you would arrange for Czech Television and Czech Radio to receive money, for example, by simply raising licence fees and not having to discharge them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u222	Thank you. I will therefore now ask for Mr Jurečka's speech, and so far the last point of fact will be prepared by Mrs Helena Langšádlová. So, Mr. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u223	Thank you. My colleague, colleagues, was a little surprised by the words of Minister Schillerová, whom I thank, on the one hand, for being one of the few members of the government, as the only member here, having the courage to speak in the debate and at least to respond to some of what was said. I was surprised she said she wasn't planning on performing tonight. This is quite unusual when the government comes to ask for the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. When we experienced this four years ago, and the opposition at the time was quite heated for us, the members of the government were performing in the debate. And I would like to ask, because this discussion is coming to an end by the number of entries in the debate, if you, Prime Minister, the Vice Prime Minister and the other members of the government, just briefly, please respond very briefly to some of the essential things that may have been heard here repeatedly. I hope you've been taking notes, because if you just let it go and cut to the vote, then I consider it a cowardly, non-state act. I think that Members, even though they are opposition, deserve a substantive argument as to why you advocate what we criticise. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u224	That was Mr. Marian Jurečka. Mrs Langšádlová was the last one. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u225	Dear colleagues, Prime Minister, you have repeatedly opposed the fact that you have nothing to do with StB. I'll start reading from this list: Alexandr Babiš - co-worker of StB, code name Miki, brother of Andrej Babiš. Libor Široký - member of the Board of Directors of Agrofert. And I could go on like this. It's a few dozen names that are linked to you and the former State Security. I know there are debates in many circles, whether your money at the beginning of your miracle business was St.B. or the KGB. I'm talking about it today because I consider it a serious security risk. That is why we need to talk about it and that is why we need to remember what the links were and are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u226	Thank you, Madame, for the performance and for keeping up with the time. We will now return to the standard general debate, so I will ask for Mr Petr Beitl's speech and prepare Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u227	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, Mark Twain once wrote that one should swallow a live toad every morning so that nothing worse would happen to him all day. I can say from this place that one toad would not be enough today. [[Laughter and applause from the right.]] A lot has been said today about the plan on which the semi-communist government was formed, and I also have to say from this place that I will not vote for such a department, and I join the views of the ODS members. We also talked about the agreement of the ANO movement and the communists, which is not public, we talked about the corrupt and extortion potential of this union. Mr. Prime Minister, through Mr. President, in your speech, you mentioned your splendid trips around the Republic, your trips, which are nothing more than the permanent election campaign of the YES movement for state money. But if you've actually gone through so many regions of our republic and talked to so many people and, above all, businessmen, I really have to wonder what your programming statement contains or doesn't contain better. While it is true that such a document should contain short-term, medium-term and long-term projects, with medium-term and long-term control, it is still impossible to ignore what our entrepreneurs and, in fact, all employers are currently suffering the most, and that is the lack of labour in all areas of industry, health care and, in fact, in all areas of business. Yes, we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, but how is it that the government is not rapidly preparing strategic measures to bring enough skilled labour into our Republic? For colleagues from the SPD: skilled labour from the areas of us culturally close. And get those forces in here fast enough so that they can even maintain existing economic growth. I have been looking for similar measures in the section of employment, foreign policy, health, industry and trade. We have huge personnel problems all over the place today. There's no mention of it! And if I am to have members of the government as competent persons who perceive the problems of this country, I do not understand. Or are you prepared to release the tens of thousands of officials you have pulled from the labour market in recent years to the state administration, as the President advised you to? I highly doubt that. Or, and now I'm going back to your secret deal with the Communists, was it forbidden to you in the framework of some socialist utopian ideas about protecting the labour market and strengthening the role of trade unions? From there, similar voices are regularly heard. I understand that the Communists could use a closer link with the trade unionists, and eventually they're definitely counting on them as a base for future people's militias. Dear members of the government, the boom really will not last forever and it is necessary to use every export order and other order today and from this happy period of our country to make the best of it, and that will not be possible without the labor force from abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, I still believe that what I said a moment ago is an exaggeration. I ask you to send a clear signal to everyone whose operations are at risk due to a lack of labour to send a clear signal to health care, to industry, to construction, because the situation is already more critical in many places and those people are waiting for that message. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u228	That was Mr. Beitl. So now we have the last four applications for the general debate. I will therefore ask Mrs Miroslava Němcová to speak and Mr Juránek will prepare himself. So, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u229	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Have a nice late evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say a few words about why we are here today and what we are discussing. During those hours of negotiations, I have an increasingly persistent feeling that there is a game called wagging a dog that we have been presented with a programming statement, a document that is public, that part of the government has been introduced to us, but not the whole government. We don't know who the Secretary of State is, and everyone's pretending it's not important. However, we have not been presented with a document and no one knows what is on it, and that is the secret agreement between the ANO and the KSČM movement. The Social Democrats say that it is none of their business, that this is a matter between the Prime Minister and those who intend to support this government and therefore the KSČM. No one in the public knows what terms or agreements were in this secret document. That's why I'm talking about wagging a dog, because we're all walking around here, discussing the individual pages of a government statement, looking for something that we want to criticize, or something that we think is going in the right direction, but that's not the point at all. This is just a smoke screen to confiscate us in order to lose sight of what's really going on here, the secret power pact between the ANO and the KSČM movement. When I return a little bit to history, it will not be far, so in May the Prime Minister Babiš said, quote: "The Communists have no influence on the government. It will only allow the emergence of our government on the basis of program goals, which are similar to ČSSD." Program targets. There wasn't a word about any personnel questions. But immediately the chairman of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip spoke and ultimatively demanded, and I quote: "If the programme statement does not disappear from the commitment to expanding military missions abroad, our support is out of the question." He repeated that the Communists wanted to speak into the occupation of ministries, where Babišův's conflict of interest, namely agriculture, justice, health care, threatens. Meanwhile, they have put enormous pressure on ministers who did not suit them, Minister Pelikán, Minister Stropnický, Minister Šlechtová, to leave the government. [[23.00 hours]] I think it was best defined by Vice-President KSČM Kateřina Konečná, who clearly expressed the ideas of how the KSČM will share in governance, what this share is supposed to look like. She said it in an interview with Czech Television on May 12, 2018. Quote. "It will be the Communists who straighten out the backbone of the ANO movement that does not move to the right, but to the left." I think it makes it quite clear that the contents of the secret contract had to remain secret, that it cost something to level the spine to the left, was conditional on something. And with something like that, our public who is protesting, part of it is protesting now, and the part that would find out would have to vote for even stronger protests. Therefore it must remain secret and therefore it is clear that it is a government based on this principle, on this cooperation, where, with forgiveness, ČSSD colleagues play only second violin, but they play them consciously, decided so, so I am not the one who should advise them what to do, it is they. They know better than I what the history of their party is, how in 1948 at the forced merger convention with the KSČ at that time, how their representatives were imprisoned, how they went into exile, where they founded the exile government of the ČSSD in London, and how this whole party turned out. Pretty much after 70 years of practically putting your head in the same huddle for a day, I'm sure it's your business. I don't even remind you of that, like those who, I hope, listen to our actions today and want to get some things straight and understand some things. There's a Prime Minister figure in this game whether we want to or not. After all, the Prime Minister is the one who blocked the whole situation, thanks to his cases, corruption cases, even though he himself claims that the main direction of the government to work under his leadership is to be the anti-corruption policy. But he forgets to tell us why he lied to us when explaining the case of the Chapi čapí here in the House, when the first version, if I remember it, was that he didn't know who it belonged to, that it was some lawyers. The second version was that it wasn't lawyers, that it was one of the companies. The third version was that, until the third time... And he swore on the health of his children that he didn't know, but then he said it was his children. This case remains, Andrej Babiš is criminally prosecuted. The idea that the government of the Czech Republic is to lead a criminally prosecuted person is a fundamental obstacle to thinking about anyone who thinks that even in his normal civil life or in his company, he would not be in league with a man who would be prosecuted and would have doubts about his solidarity. What can we wait for? What's the government gonna look like? Perhaps it is worth recalling the series of double-crosses that took place among the main players. For example, in February, when the members of the ANO Club contributed most to the election of the Communist Member Zdeněk Ondráček as Chairman of the GIBS Committee on Control of Activities. And only when the great wave of resistance arose, then the Prime Minister in the demise, Andrej Babiš, was frightened by the roughly 30,000 people who were in Wenceslas Square, and Mr. Ondráček had to leave. And Mr. Babiš said he didn't want his election, it was everyone else's fault, the whole game around is just trying to break down the ANO movement. In April, the President unconditionally supported the missile intervention of the allies against Syrian dictator Asad and condemned chemical attacks against the civilian population. So did his ministers Stropnický and Šlechtová, Minister Stropnický, Minister Šlechtová, but then the Prime Minister met with Mr President. The President told him that this is not how he imagined things that they would not be friends with each other, and suddenly we learned from the Prime Minister that our two ministers were competing with each other in a statement that was stronger, they held conferences, but it was not a united government position. He turned his heels on a visit to the President and threw his ministers overboard. In April, when negotiations with the Czech Social Democratic Party failed for the first time, the Prime Minister again rushed to the Castle. Mr. President has been consulted, and the President has decided that the best option for governance will be the Yes, the SPD and the Communists. Andrej Babiš came out of this meeting at the President's office, announced at the Castle that this is what they agreed to, and that's what it's gonna be. However, something began to happen on the air again, so the evening, the same evening that they had arranged something with the President, Andrej Babiš voted to resume negotiations with the ČSSD, because he was said to have submitted to the majority opinion of the ANO movement. Those are the methods that all actors have to count on. I think the Chamber of Deputies should know, because they are not unique cases, they are unique ad hoc solutions, they are unique failures. It's a style of work, it's a whole system that's built on lies, on the power control of everyone who either dances the way I whistle or is thrown overboard. This will not only be the matter of the government coalition, we can see that it is happening within the ANO movement, but it is their concern as to how they will deal with Mr Nacher or with Minister Šlechtová. That's up to you. But at the same time, if we are talking about whether the government is to be trusted and we do not know the basic secret document, we do not know what is in it, and therefore we can hardly express whether or not such trust is to be granted, but there is also the personnel side of the government. It cannot be said that we do not care, because part of the work of a Member when he judges whether he will give confidence to the government or not to the government is also who represents it and with what goals, with which ideas and with which expertise he enters that government. Well, I have a few questions. I don't know if I'm gonna learn the answers, but I'm curious. The Minister of Culture Antonín Staněk recently defended the nomination of communist poet Karel Sýs for state honours and did not exclude him from any award for Ivan Skála. I quote now. "If it were," Ivan Skála meant, "designed, I would have to go through his creation, I would have to do it again in some way, because I have long since had a higher education, and therefore I am not able to tell you anything about it now." The candidate for the Minister of Culture doesn't know who Ivan Skála was? The scrupulous exterminator of Czech writers, Czech poets? The most feared figure that ruled the literary world before 1989? Well, that's a very bad business card if the Minister of Culture doesn't know that. The Trade Minister, Mrs Marta Nováková, has said that she is a pragmatist, and in her years she has come to believe that such an orthodox clinging to certain things that are not so important is pointless. That was the answer to the question of how she will now cope with the government in which she will be minister, leaning on the voices of the Communists. I mean, it's not important. These are not things that are so essential, and orthodox clinging to them makes no sense. He's talking about doing business with Mr. Tomie Okamura, and he appreciates being very pragmatic. At the same time, we read that the Prime Minister in Le Figaro, France, says that this is an extremist movement, about the same Tomie Okamur and his movement. Don't you think there's something weird here? Minister Nováková also says that she very much supported the electronic record of sales, was in favour of a much more stringent diction of the law, so that it really applies to everyone without exception and immediately, which, when I look at the government statement, I think on page 31 this is about how you support small and medium-sized enterprises, which are a solid and irreplaceable part of the domestic economy, so I feel that something is not right here. Perhaps an explanation that the Minister has a company or a company, I don't know exactly how it is now, which supplies software to the largest business chains in the Czech Republic, abroad, and also provides technology to EET companies. Members of the Association of Entrepreneurs and Managers, who ask whether such a person can approach EET objectively, will also be suspended. [[23.10 hours]] Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch has a double standard. When it was a criminal prosecution of people from a recent case that broke out in medical facilities, and it was the intervention of police officers in hospitals in Bulovka and in František, Minister Adam Vojtěch said - I quote: I cannot imagine Mr Novák still working in this position. Mr. František Novák, director of one of those hospitals. If he's being detained and criminally prosecuted and suspected of committing a crime, there must be a change. But he does not have the same standard for his chairman, for a man who is to become Prime Minister with the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies, and on the contrary, he says to his address: I do not like how the case of the Chapi nest is mediated, the matter that is not before the court is being dealt with. In one case, if you're being investigated, you can't stay in your place. In the case of your boss, that's not true. The questions are around the Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman. He is a former member of Rusnokův's government, sponsor of Miloš Zeman, and not only in dedicated circles, but it is generally said that he is more of a candidate for the Castle and Communists, food and agricultural lobby, and Prime Minister Babiš than ČSSD. After all, the Social Democrats are aware of this and say that they know that they have only three ministers, then there is Minister Toman and then no one knows who will come to the State Department. Open sources, and here I am saying that I would like to disprove it, I would like to be disproved by the information, but in open sources it is said that after the collapse of the family company Toman's Agrotrade, which eventually ended up with Radovan Krejčíř, there were 600 million CZK's debts to be paid by taxpayers. I don't know what to do with this information, I'd be very happy to know that's not true. Secretary of Defense Lubomír Metnar was named Babišův's daily Lidové noviny as a former Minister of the Interior of Rusnokův's government Martin Pecina and President's advisor Martin Nejedlý. That's what Lidové noviny says. It follows from open sources that he worked at the Emergency Regiment Public Security, and while Andrej Babiš called on the KSČM to reconsider the nomination of Zdeněk Ondráček due to his past in the Emergency Regiment VB, he also appointed a minister of man who served with the same regiment. I think there's something really weird in there, too. There's one more thing I'd like to pause for. When the Prime Minister spoke in his opening speech, which was not entirely in my view by presenting the agenda of the future government, it was difficult to call what it was actually a speech, but it seemed to me that there I felt that the flagship of this government should be the fight against corruption and, at the same time, the issue of foreign affairs, that is, our action in the structures of the EU, NATO and, in particular, the issues relating to migration. The migration is described on page 20 of the Government's programming statement, where I quote: We will consistently combat illegal migration, smuggling and trafficking in human beings. I remembered when we adopted the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on migration, it was I, together with my fellow Members from the Civil Democratic Party, who tabled a ten-point motion for a resolution. It was in October 2015, where this proposal was made: the Chamber of Deputies supports the crackdown on smugglers, smugglers, and calls on the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs to use all possibilities to obtain UN approval on this plan. The Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance at the time, did not support this proposal and this proposal was not accepted by the Chamber of Deputies. Today I am reading, after three years, when three years ago there could have been a clear position of the Czech government, how to intervene against these mischiefs, so today I learn that they are planning to do so. The last thing I want to mention is corruption. I rely on the statement made by Minister Šlechtová, Exministra Šlechtová. On 26 June this year, she said - quote: I was running for a movement that wanted to be anti-corruption. Since this is the problem of the Ministry of Defence, transparency and clientelistic networks, which reach very high, there are many employees of the Ministry of Defence and politicians involved, and therefore my media lynch started. Those are the words of Mrs. Exministra Šlechtová. It just needs to be added that the media lynch went off in the media owned by the Prime Minister, and it wasn't the first time and certainly not the last time, for all those who would be in his service should get used to it. However, I would like to know why the Security Council of the State has been convened on this matter. I hope she's not being summoned just because someone slept badly or read something wrong or doesn't really know what to do with that thing. If, on the basis of these statements, Ex-minister Šlechtová, who was heading for her predecessor, Minister Stropnický, the Prime Minister was summoned by the Security Council of the State, something very serious must be happening. Minister Metnar, who is now taking over this position, says he will resolve this by the end of the year and does not see the military police as an obstacle in the matter. Perhaps, to conclude completely, I would like to quote one thing that speaks for itself, there is no need for me to comment on it. When I was at the Cyrilometodea celebrations in Uherské Hradiště, Velehrad, in the vicinity of Uherské Hradiště last week, we all received a program brochure there, where Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has the opening word. In this brochure he says: The basic pillars of our morals and our rights are formulated in the Desater. Thanks to these ancient rules, we know not to steal and slander our parents and neighbor with respect. - I must add that I would, of course, sign these words, but that the incoming Prime Minister, who asks for the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies and relies on the welfare of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, forgets to add that when he confesses to the need of the legacy of the desatero, he forgets to add that 229 priests and 101 religious communists have imprisoned 28 priests and 2 religious women have tortured 1,440 priests and 2,750 religious women have interned. This is about the interpretation of Desatra, how we should respect our neighbor, how we should not steal, lie, and deceive. I believe that, for the reasons that I have been talking about here, both in kind and in personnel, it is not possible for us to degrade the existing democracy rate in our country into the form of a criminally prosecuted person at the head of the government with all the circumstances that I have mentioned here. It's a question of yours - and I know it's throwing peas on the wall now, none of you will change your conviction, I just want to talk to those who listen to us so they know what you'll vote for, what you'll give your approval for, even though you know all this. You can't make excuses for not knowing anything, that when you Social Democrats and members of the ANO movement get up here, and you say, "I give confidence to this government," you'll be written forever in history with the fact that it was you who made it possible for such a government to be created, and you will enroll in that document, which today will be a deed of honor and a deed of shame. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u230	Thank you, too. Good evening, everyone. I now ask Mr Hájek to make a point of fact. The President of Bělobrádek will prepare himself with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u231	Mr President, colleagues. I can't help it. You see, I would have responded to the fact that the lady who spoke before me, Mrs Němcová, attacked the Minister of Defence, who was in an emergency regiment. Yes, I was also in Jan Žižka's Military Gymnasium. And you know who I studied with? With Mr. Topolánek. With Mr. Topolánek! Did she attack Mr. Topolánek the same way that he had been with me since he was 15 years old at military high school? [[Upset.]] You were a member of the ODS? [[- Please turn around...]] Back when... through Mr President, you were a member at a time when Mr Topolánek was also president of the ODS, and he was also at a time when he was the only chance to study under communists that he was a student of military grammar school. That's like Mr. Today's - I'm gonna point my finger right - Secretary of Defense today, he was. Unfortunately, he wanted to be. To help our security. That means the only way he could have entered the emergency regiment. That means, if Mr. President of the ODS wanted to be your former chairman, he wanted to be a professional soldier, he had to enter, among other things, military grammar school. So that's it. So, please, let's get some pure wine. That means the time was such that if anyone wanted to be a cop or an esenbate, they had to enter an emergency regiment. If anyone wanted to be a professional soldier, they must have been at Jan Žižka's Military Gymnasium. That's all. So please don't mix my pears with apples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u232	I, too, thank you for keeping time. And he will respond with a factual remark from Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u233	I'm a native of Opava, where it was Jan Žižka's unfortunate high school from Trocnov, where those 15-year-old boys walked in uniforms. I'd blame their parents for that, not the 14-year-old boys who were laughing at the entire Opava at the time, quite unjustly. To compare the emergency regiment that so infamously intervened in 1989 against free-minded citizens, this grammar school is an outrage. Outrageous! I quite understand. Mr Hájek is very reconciled to communism and communists. But we won't be like that. [[- Through...]] And through what? [[The President: Turn to the others...]] I'm not turning around! The Vice-President is either deaf or does not understand the Czech language. Relating communism and Communist behavior is something we will protest against. And I ask Mr Hájek, through the Vice-President, to be polite to Mrs Němcová. It's not the first time she's attacked her personally. You're pathetic, through the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u234	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Hájek, to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u235	I'm sorry, I've been approached here, so I'm getting off again, but I have to get off. I, my colleague, through Mr President, entered the military grammar school as a 15-year-old boy who was the father of an immigrant who had no choice but to study at a military school. There was no other way. In 1975, I was released from military high school for political reasons that my father was in emigration. So please don't blame me for being some kind of supporter of communism. That's not true! I had to work hard on myself, I worked hard on myself. And the fact that I'm here today is that I've been focused, hardworking. And that the Communists only allowed me to study the High School of Mining and to be a miner, so unfortunately it was such a time. I didn't accept it to this day, but I just accepted it. And I'm here today, and I don't regret it. I don't regret being in that mining business. Of course, I regret that there was such a time. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u236	Well, thank you. And now, please, with Prime Minister Bělobrádek's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u237	Mr President, Mr Government, fellow Members, I would like to distance myself from what has happened before the Chamber of Deputies. And I am convinced that physical violence is not part of democracy and that it is unacceptable to throw bottles at anyone who is my opponent, even though I do not agree with him. I would like to call on all protesters from this place to allow for a dignified exit when we are finished here, to all Members of the Government, regardless of whether they agree with them or not. And to refrain from such unacceptable acts. Please, let us respect our opponents too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u238	I, too, thank you very much and please Mr Juránek, who is duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u239	Mr President, Prime Minister, Government, fellow Members and fellow Members, I refuse to take factual notes in this House because it serves something other than what the factual remark is meant to serve. I think we need to learn to really hold on to things, and maybe now we have to hold on to that thing that concerns this government. I will try to be very brief as far as possible. However, I will take advantage of it and respond to matters. I mean, I'm from a family with an officer of the Czech army. And I appreciate the army very much. And I am convinced that we are currently paying little attention to that army and that we are far from living in a time when we do not need that army. That means the first thing that is. So please, let's take a look at this with a look at the future. And even when we approve the budgets that we are going to approve here, let us focus in this direction. I'm just convinced we need this. However, at the beginning of the next speech, I must say that I will not support this government precisely because there are communists there. But now I'll tell you why. They had a lot of opportunities to apologize, but they didn't apologize within my family. In 1948, my uncle was locked up for 11 years for organizing a pilgrimage to Hostýn, which was attended by over 100,000 people. He got 11 years for it. In 1969, as a 13-year-old boy, I was 50 meters from where a folk militiaman shot a 17-year-old Muzikářová, and you can find it in Brno. These are the things I'm prepared to accept to some extent when someone apologizes for them. And I've been waiting for it all along. I was also the commander of the South Moravian Region, and the Communists had enough opportunities to apologize for these things. The fact that they don't mind that some of them go in there and put down flowers, just as I consider the first hope that one day they will realize that and that they will apologize for it. And I'm only going to say one thing and one thought, because I don't want to attack anyone at all. I just want to say that this movement here should remember that you're not going to erase the truth. And I'm gonna say it again, you can't erase the truth! Nor will the vote today be deleted, which will be on this matter. [[23.30 hours]] But I'm gonna say it straight as I feel things. I would much rather be here, much happier, here to discuss our party being part of a government coalition. I'm saying this for myself, but I'd love to. And that's why I'm not going to rely on what's in the programming statement. I just want to say that for me, the whole foundation has already been said here. But for me, as a person who has worked in municipal politics since 1994 until 2016, or I am still a representative of the South Moravian Region, it is very important for me to try to solve the specific problems that are in this country, and I'm going to say which I don't think are in this programming statement. And I'm saying if we were trying to get that government, we'd have to get them there. I only have five. But I'll say it's based on KDU-ČSL principles. We just have a principle, and it's very important, but we're talking so little about it, that everything that can be done at the bottom level is to be done at the bottom level. And I'm gonna say it one step at a time up the stairs. What I can do in the family, make it happen in the family. That's why we support the family, and that's why we support the three-generation family. If we can do something through associations, whether they're firemen, or these mentioned scouts, falcons, or eagles, let's do it through associations. Or fishermen or hunters. If we can do something through municipalities, let us do it through municipalities. If through the county, then through the county. And if we can support something small, that means small businessmen and small businessmen, let's support what's closest to us here and what's next to us. And only then can we properly evaluate these things. That's our view. Then I'll just say five things. The first thing is living. This housing is very important to us from a family point of view, because 75 percent of people who are divorcing, marriages that are divorcing within five years, at least as one of the reasons for bad housing or that they do not have it. So if we do not comprehensively address housing - and we are going to deal with it much more now, because a group of those who do not get credit under the measures of the Czech National Bank will increase - then we will not achieve any available housing and then the other things in the housing. However, I'll be brief. The second thing concerns a really fair increase in pensions, especially women who cared for their children or their parents. The third thing I want to talk about is the support of the nonprofits I was talking about. And the fourth thing that I think is very important is to finally complete the reform of the regions so that the regions can start working as they should. This is particularly relevant to education, where we have 14 kinds of education. The region from the region is different everywhere and there is something to be done about it especially in secondary education. And the fifth issue is the promotion of businessmen and small entrepreneurs. I say again, I would rather we choose the third path we still have and look for another two months, three months longer if there was a government without communists. I'd like to act like this. But if I can't, I must say that today I will be against the government, against the trust of a government that relies on communists.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u240	Thank you. Before I invite another speaker, I feel like there's a bit of noise going on here. So just to keep it on a good level. Please, Mr. Rozvoral, who is signed up next. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the SPD's parliamentary club will not support the emergence of the minority government YES, ČSSD and KSČM. The coalition government of YES and ČSSD agreed on their own cooperation on the basis of the coalition agreement and the support of the communists was secured by the government by a treaty of tolerance between YES and Communists. Our citizens may finally be relieved that long negotiations have ended on who will rule our country and that we finally have a government that has been trusted. On the other hand, they should answer for themselves whether this is a good solution for them. For our SPD movement, we must say that this is not a good solution. We have enough arguments for this claim. The ČSSD has been very arrogant in all negotiations on government cooperation and, for example, has spoken highly offensively to our movement and has publicly claimed false information in order to damage our movement and our program. The way to end the first negotiations on government with the ANO movement is evidence of the culture set up in this party. The government, whose coalition member is divided, pro-brussels, pro-immigration and corruption scandals turned over by the ČSSD, will be extremely unstable. The disunity of this party in all votes and the disunity of Members and Senators of the ČSSD is proof of this. There's a lot of corruption behind the ČSSD side. For example, OKD, a box of wine full of millions of crowns by the captain and MP David Rath, the case of financing the top sport and many others that cost our taxpayers billions of crowns. The ČSSD supports the principles of globalisation and multicultural integration in its programme. Once again, the YES movement has nominated a criminally prosecuted person for the Prime Minister's seat, which further increases government instability. We could mention a lot of arguments, but I won't mention that again. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is fully responsible for the creation of such a government. Our movement offered him cooperation, but he wasn't interested in it. It was his decision, and he will answer to our citizens. Finally, I will repeat once again that the members of the SPD will not support the confidence of this proposed government. We believe that this government is unable to fulfil foreign, economic, security, defence and social policy in favour of the well-being of our citizens, which means defending and defending the sovereignty of our Republic, which is a long-term programme of our movement. Classic would say I'm giving this government a year, two tops. However, given that I am not a classic, I would say that the length of its reign, given its enormous instability, will not be even a year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u242	Thank you, too. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Let me ask you to calm me down a bit, and I will ask Mr Lipavský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u243	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as an opposition member on behalf of the Pirates Party, I will not support the confidence of this government. First of all, therefore, mainly because I am a believer in democracy. However, I will not vote for you, Dear Government, also for reasons of purely pragmatic nature, and therefore I hope for you technocrats to be somewhat clearer. So let me divide my speech into two comments. I will first comment on foreign policy and then on the planned construction of the nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u244	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. I don't know if it's the noise outside or the noise in the O.R., but I can barely hear you. [[loud speeches by protestors outside the building]] So please try raising your voice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u245	And who knows, I may be able to persuade some of my fellow Members to join me. Foreign policy, then. I will quote from the Government's programme statement from the Defence chapter: we will be active in the UN, the European Union, NATO and other organisations. And the chapter to abroad is stated by the declaration that the government's foreign policy will be self-confident, active and understandable. However, if we look at what the government has shown YES over the past six months, it is nothing but misery. [[23.40 hours]] Minister Martin Stropnický accepted three state visits everywhere and did not make a bilateral trip abroad. In vain, Andrej Babiš tried to meet Angela Merkelová, who persistently rejected him for six months. Why? Because the Prime Minister was in remission, and that didn't matter in Europe. The Czech position abroad has weakened our position in Europe due to Babišův's selfishness and inability to form a government for six months. In the eyes of our partners, we look unstable in a better case, in a worse ridiculous way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u246	I am convinced that this is no longer due to outside noise, and I would ask Members, particularly on the left of me, to calm down in their negotiations or to move them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u247	Now the position of the Foreign Minister is weakened because of power squabbling, because, let my colleague Hamáček not be angry with me, it is not possible to fully manage two power resorts. The situation thus records that Andrej Babiš is once again strengthening. The government has not yet received confidence and has already systematically and consciously violated its own programming statement. Is that normal? It's not. Is that acceptable? That's what I'm asking you who intend to support his government. To Russia. On Russia, we read the following in the programming statement: we want to participate more actively in the EU's debate on future relations with the Russian Federation in order to find universally acceptable solutions to reduce tensions in Europe. - It's obvious that even in this part of the government's statement, there was a red hand. Otherwise, I can't explain such vague and unspeakable statements. Let me remind you of a few facts, my dear government. It's obviously necessary. Russia is still illegitimately occupying Ukraine and does not seem to be trying to withdraw in the near future. The Minsk deal still stands. And I ask why any mention is missing to support our allies in the Baltics. Why is there no mention of sanctions, of promoting Europe's unity in these matters? And it has to be said that security is not the value to which you can stick the price tag and trade it for a cube of butter or a truck of apples. Two. I'm accusing the new government of accessing nuclear power plants, nuclear power. The government's submitted programming statement is full of nuclear power, completion. Miloš Zeman, who has been working hard to coordinate his actions with ČEZ Beneš, spoke of the core today. It's a sure thing for him. Is this a trivial matter? It's not. Because if we go this way, this will be the biggest contract in this country's history, at least half a trillion crowns will be spent. The contract will be with state guarantee, with state money. This is an inevitable economic reality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u248	I would once again call on Members of Parliament in the left side of the hall at the entrance to consider whether they will not move their discussions out, because the noise is simply growing unnecessarily here and I do not hear the Member speaking. On the right, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u249	And now an important question. Who can build a nuclear power plant like this these days? USA? No. France? No. Japan? No. There are only three countries that can apply in principle for such a contract. It's Russia, China and South Korea. And as we already know, Russia and China are already working hard and strongly lobbying at the highest levels of politics, virtually. politicians buy directly and are long-term interested in the contract. And now we are in a situation where YES in the House is sinking one anti-corruption law after another. We are in a situation where YES is constantly campaigning against one of our secret services, which serves to protect the interests of the Czech Republic abroad. We mix a poisonous cocktail to damage our own democracy and new solars and light fuel oils, and put in any corruption project. We are in danger of increasing energy dependence and other political corruption. In conclusion, I won't forgive one comment. The government statement states that the government will meet the scrutiny of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which is responsible for its activities. Ladies and gentlemen, as government parties imagine similar support, we have been demonstrated by the fact that by breaking the law, you have set up a meeting for novice and when you are silent all day. Ladies and gentlemen, your vote today will decide the future of this country for years to come. So I ask you to take your decision into account not only the fate of this country and the best interests of its inhabitants but also your own conscience. I wish you courage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u250	I thank the Member and Mr Peksa, who is next in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u251	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to add a few words to why I cannot support this government. It is a government that stands up in its programming statement as a government that will hear and be a key player in the EU. The Prime Minister often looks like a strong and sharp manager and an excellent negotiator. We are facing fundamental problems for the European Union which threaten its essence and also open the way for positive changes and visions. And our vision, the vision of this government, is to stick together with the V4 states to slow down Europe's integration, we are not even talking about the euro anymore, and our negotiating position is shrinking to: give us agricultural money, do not lower our subsidies and let us look strong at home. This is a very barren and difficult to sustainable position. And what tools and who wants to enforce it? The Prime Minister, who has failed to form a government since October, a prime minister who cannot maintain his emotions during a common debate in the House, whose credibility for partners is completely undermined by the ongoing criminal proceedings. And he's also a prime minister who couldn't fill the post of Secretary of State. Mr. Double Minister Hamáček told us on the Foreign Affairs Committee that it wasn't his fault and it wasn't the ČSSD's fault that he was a double minister. He's right, it's his superior's responsibility, specifically the Prime Minister. And the problem is that Mr. Double Minister Hamáček should now attend the meetings of two different Councils of Ministers, while he himself admits that he has not been able to do so in the long term. And this government is said to be called a key player in the EU! I do not want to talk too much about the ANO movement in the European Parliament. In 2013, you ran with the image of a liberal party and entered the ALDE faction. The truth is that two of your four MEPs are no longer cooperating with you, and to the west of us, it sounds loud that you are an ally of Orbán and Kaczyńský. The Visegrad Four is considered an oasis of nationalist authoritarians, and you, Prime Minister, are mentioned as one of them, along with you so praised Viktor Orbán. And that's the reality you got us into, and you want to talk about us being a key player? Don't let that make you laugh. So I can't support this government, driven by one man's greedy vision, equipped with such weak instruments, and I hope that soon we will have a government capable of making constructive policies in the European Union, even though I am fully aware that this government will not be. And to conclude. In this House, Mr Ondřej Veselý is among ČSSD MEPs. He is a Member of the European Committee, I am convinced that a good Evropan. I would like to ask through Mr President: Mr Member, what leads you to support this old government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u252	I, too, thank you and Mr Ferjenčík will perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u253	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Mr Chvojka through the President, a colleague of mine from the social democracy region, if he trusts Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u254	Thank you. Mr Michálek, who is enrolled in the debate, will now speak. Mr Profant will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u255	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to follow up on one of my previous speeches when I spoke about the nomination law and spoke about the nominees of the KSČM in the Supervisory Board of the Czech Post, Mr Krejs. I have recorded information in the media, where the Minister of the Interior has promised to investigate this matter, why Mr Krejsa, the advisor to Mr Filip's KSČM, takes 160 000 in the Supervisory Board of the Czech Post and its subsidiaries. So I wanted to ask the Minister of the Interior, who is no longer a minister, so Mr. former Minister of the Interior, if he checked it out, or if he didn't check it out, and if he handed it over to his successor Mr. Hamáček, how it turned out, in fact, to learn this information before voting on the trust of the Chamber of Deputies to the government. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u256	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mr Profant. Mrs Richterová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u257	Good evening again. I wanted to ask Mr Petr Dolínek, through Mr President, if he really wants to express his confidence in the government of YES even after his experience in Prague and if he believes in Mr Andrea Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u258	Thank you. Please, Madame... No. Mr Veselý came forward with a point of fact, so we would prefer him. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u259	Thank you for the floor. I must confess that I was ready to join the debate within eight hours to explain my position. However, the debate around midnight is no longer something that can normally be handled humanly, so I will reply to Mikuláš Peks very briefly through Mr President. My position is very difficult. It is widely known that I did not support the entry of the ČSSD into the government, I tried to convince my colleagues from the ČSSD not to take this step for many reasons. However, I failed. And unfortunately part of politics is that if someone fails, they have to acknowledge defeat. I respect her. He lost my opinion in my motherhood. And I appreciate, on the one hand, colleagues who have come to the referendum in a large number and voted to join the government despite my personal convictions. And I appreciate a huge human being who set this whole thing up, Honza Hamáček. And these two things finally led me to raise my voice for the government today despite my personal deep conviction. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u260	Thank you. With a point of fact, I have Mr Peksa here, so he has the floor. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u261	I would like to thank my predecessor through the President and to appreciate that at least someone here has the courage to come out and say why he does what he does, even if I disagree with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u262	Thank you, too. Please, Mrs Richterová, who is duly enrolled in the debate. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u263	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, on a similar matter as has just been said, namely what your personal reasons are, as you are dealing with giving confidence to Mr Andrej Babiš's government, I would like to ask the honourable Member through the President, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u264	Thank you, too. And Mr. Holomčík, please. Mr Bartoň will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u265	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I would also like to take this opportunity, and through Mr President, I would like to ask my colleague from the South Moravian Region, Mr Roman Onderka, because we are always speaking frankly with each other, so if he could say frankly whether he trusts the person of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u266	Thank you, too. And please, Mr Bartona, who is the last person to sign up for the debate at this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u267	Thank you for the floor. I had a similar question to my party colleague from the Pilsen Region, Mr Chovanec. I've sort of learned the answer from the press, for which at least I appreciate it for this. However, I would like to ask Mr Foldyna here through the President: Mr colleague, do you believe Andrej Babiš? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u268	Thank you, too. And now, Mr Michalek, Mr. Michálek, has yet to enter into the debate, so I will give him my word again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. He probably didn't hear me, Minister Metnar, so I'm gonna ask you one more time. How did your investigation of the Czech Post work out? I hear you're the anti-corruption party. [[Screaming from the benches YES: He is a non-puller!]] In the media, you said you were going to deal with it. And it would be good if you could introduce us to the result. If it's said that a communist is sitting there for 160 grand a month, that's quite a capitalist salary, then it would be good for us to learn about the outcome of your anti-corruption investigation. That's all we're asking. Just a question to which we have the right under Section 11 of the Rules of Procedure - a request for clarification. So get out here and just tell us if you've been saving any money or saving any money. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u270	Thank you. And I got a report from the diaper from Mr. Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can all agree from the left to the right here that the Prime Minister, who asks for the trust of the Chamber of Deputies, should not be a convicted liar. Unfortunately, that's not the case. Already in the last parliamentary term, when the public, the newspaper, and the Chamber of Deputies eventually addressed the problem of the Cape hnízdo, it turned out that Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, the Minister of Finance, was still lying. He lied completely consciously. He lied to the public and the Chamber of Deputies. Today is quite a relief for me when the Minister of Finance approached me with the blame that I was drunk, that I was a thief and that I made people die on parachutes. In all these cases, this is a slander, where, of course, the burden of proof must be borne by the slanderer. I have evidence in all these three cases where I can say that it was simply not true, or that it was not true, and that it was therefore a convicted liar. But that will be a civil law dispute between me and the Prime Minister. He'll be forced to apologize. It can't end any other way, because I've got the evidence in my hand. And this isn't about one Kalousek. However, the person who perjured himself to the health of his own children also asks for your trust. Are you really able to trust someone who deliberately lied and said, in the health of their children, I swear to you, it was true? There's no more cynical statement from my father's and grandfather's point of view. It's just to be perfectly clear who you want or don't want to say trust. It's personal. And now... [[In front of the speaker's desk is Vice-President Philip speaking to the speaker.]] Vice-President of the House, if you stand right in front of me and speak to me about what I say, you know that you are not being correct. Shut up! [[Laughs in the hall.]] You can look at me, but shut up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u272	I'll make peace. However, I would like to call on you to address the other Members through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u273	You can look at me, but please don't tell me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-07-11-ps2017-017-01-001-001.u274	Please, through me.
