ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u1	70. Government bill amending Act No. 201/2012 Sb., on air protection, as amended /house print 13/ - third reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Environment take the position of rapporteur at the rapporteur's table, Richard Brabec, and in agreement with the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Fialová, who is ready to represent Mrs Pekarová Adamová. The amendments are set out in the Parliament's 13/7 press, which was delivered on 11 April 2018. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as a House press of 13/8. I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the start of the debate. [[Minister Brabec: Yes.]] He's interested. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I would really ask you all, even those who discuss directly in front of the speaker's desk, my fellow colleagues, if you can see me! Thank you. If there's anything to discuss, there's plenty of room in the lobby. Thank you. Now, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u2	Thank you. Good morning. Mr President, thank you for defending me. First of all, I'd like to thank you for not pushing that point. It would have blocked other points on Friday. And I thank both Mrs Fialová and Mrs Purple for taking over the rapporteur in such a helpful way. I think that the voting procedure, as proposed by the Guarantee Committee, i.e. the Committee on the Environment, is not all that complicated. However, allow me to begin with just a few comments and a certain summary. This amendment to the Air Protection Act is originally a transposition amendment, which includes certain requirements contained in two European directives concerning the calculation methods and reporting requirements for the quality of petrol and diesel fuels...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u3	Yes, I also hear too much noise again. I'll ask everyone if there's a chance that the Minister may not have to scream at you. Thank you for your peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u4	I am compared to that, Mr President. It's kind of like I'm putting the law in those--
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u5	But we're not gonna enjoy you that much, Minister. So I'd really like some peace in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u6	Thank you. Very briefly indeed. This is because the proposal will allow suppliers of diesel and diesel fuels to take into account twice the amount of biofuels produced from used kitchen oil, rendering fats and advanced biofuels into the minimum mandatory share of biofuels, which is certainly also in order to reduce the percentage of biofuels produced in the first generation, i.e. those food biofuels. Natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas and clean and high-percent fuels can also be taken into account in the mandatory reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Last but not least, the method of sanctions for failing to comply with greenhouse gas emission reduction obligations is changing so that it is fairer. However, a number of amendments have been added to this during the discussion. I will definitely comment on them in the course of the discussion, but let me just make a general remark. The amendments applied concern not only the area of biofuels and support for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in transport, but also other areas. The Ministry of the Environment has actively cooperated with the petitioners on some of them, and this has led us to do so for several reasons, because you know that there was a debate about who was actually behind the amendments. The main reason, and I would like to point out, is that this amendment to the Chamber of Deputies was submitted to the Act on Air Protection in the autumn of 2016, i.e. in the previous parliamentary term, but it was not possible to negotiate it and, for its accelerated adoption in the new parliamentary term, due to the already initiated infringement by the European Commission, the Government approved the material and re-submitted it to the new Chamber of Deputies in the same text, i.e. without repeating the inter-department. For this reason, it could not be taken into account the adjustment of a number of issues which, as it turned out later, were desirable to address. This means that this is why the Ministry of the Environment has been actively involved in some amendments. That's about enough as an introduction to the rather excited discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your patience. Again, I will ask colleagues who have something to discuss to discuss it in the lobby and not disturb the speakers. There. I am opening up a debate in which Mrs Fialová was the first to sign up, which I am giving the floor to. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u8	Hello, Mr President, dear colleagues, dear government. Allow me to comment on the Act on Air and its amendments. As has already been said in the Minister's introductory words, the reason for the amendment to the Act on Air was the need for the transposition of European legislation in relation to the amount of incorporation of biofuels into fuels and the clarification of the method of calculation for greenhouse gas emissions. Opening such a sensitive law always leads to the possibility of proposing changes in another part of the law. In this case, I, too, have taken advantage of the option and have tabled several amendments after consulting the Ministry of Environment in areas that I felt were burning, whether with the impact on cities, municipalities and especially our fellow citizens. So I'm going to mention the two most serious ones. The first is the impact on the wallets of our citizens, who are obliged to revise the boilers. On the basis of the list of designated persons registered with the Ministry of Environment, this service will no longer be overpriced, which we have seen in recent years. The proposal sets out a mechanism when and how to contact persons authorised to carry out revisions in their immediate vicinity and sets the maximum possible financial limit for which the service can be performed. Another substantial change is the extension of the revision interval from two years to three years. Therefore, if the law as a whole is approved, including this amendment, there will be no hectic recovery of the service at the end of this year. [[9.20 hours]] The second impact is the change in the setting of a programme to improve air quality for the regions. The reason for the submission is the annulment of certain parts of the court in the programmes themselves. The programmes were not binding and were not possible to enforce them. If we really want to improve air quality in our cities, there must be a whole set of measures that will lead to the desired effect. The change will affect mostly cities and municipalities, which will set a timetable for the work proposed by the measures. By establishing an air quality improvement programme in the Ministry of the Environment's Bulletin, it will be more binding and the city's management will have to plan its budgets in the context of the measures. Most mayors, if they have a choice whether to build a new playground or sweep the road twice a year instead of four times a year, prefer to reach after the children's playground, not only from politically positive points for their citizens, but also because of the pressure and need of their community's development sites. The argument was often made that the public would not be able to enter the whole process. I have to disprove this claim. Each plan goes through the SEA process, assessing the environmental impact of concepts, where public participation is firmly anchored. I was accused of working with the Ministry of the Environment on the amendments. Personally, it seems logical to me if changes are to be properly graspable for their application in practice. At second reading, Mrs Balcarová said that she was the co-author of her amendment concerning the impossibility of granting exemptions for emission limits under BAT. I therefore ask, through Mr President, who is the co-author. I would like to argue here whether it is the Activist Society of the Duha and Greenpeace Movement. If so, I will hope strongly that their main reason for promoting this change is indeed an interest in improving the air condition in the Czech Republic and the health of the population. At the second reading, I mentioned the reasons and possible impacts that logically lead to the failure to support this amendment. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] Two seminars were organised on the issue itself. I am very pleased that there is such an interest in this issue. They have raised debates on how to target effectively and improve air conditions in our Republic. The first was devoted to legislation and the impact on human health. I was a great critic because the seminar was aimed at supporting the abolition of exemptions without the possibility of expressing the other party, which is industry, energy, heating, distribution network managers and others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u9	I'm sorry. I'd really like the debaters to at least stand up in front of the speaker's counter. It's really very disturbing. I'd hate to name it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u10	I will not argue here whether or not the state of the air has an impact on human health. But the argument to abolish exemption based on the statistics on deaths in the affected regions doesn't seem fair to me. Since 1990, there has been a significant reduction in all air pollutants, so as a strong argument I would accept research into the occurrence and severity of respiratory diseases in people born after 2000 and compared to all regions. I consider the arguments based on assumptions without a quantified impact on the improvement of air conditions to be very poor. The second seminar gave space to representatives of industry, the Union of Towns and Communities, the Ministry of Environment, ČEPS, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Teplářské association. The debate on the issue was rich, including representatives of Greenpeace. The seminar took place on Monday 21. 5. and since the Members' participation was modest, I would like to introduce you to the findings and facts from individual blocks. The Ministry of Environment introduced the anchoring of BAT in Czech legislation. In case of cancellation of exemptions, the Integrated Prevention Act must be amended. The authority granting exemptions under the Integrated Prevention Act is the competent regional authority and the appeal body is the Ministry of Environment. Any exceptions shall be fixed only for a certain period. The operator applying for these exemptions must demonstrate that there will be no significant environmental pollution, overall a high level of environmental protection will be achieved. Achieving the emission levels associated with the best available techniques described in the BAT conclusions would lead to costs the amount of which would not be proportionate to the environmental benefits due to the geographical location of the installation or local environmental conditions, or the technical characteristics of the installation. Each exemption granted shall be taken as a major change in the integrated permit where the public may express itself and thus be subject to judicial review. This issue concerns 100 devices in the Czech Republic, which count to 398 resources. At present, it can be predicted that exemptions will only be requested by operators for certain sources and pollutants, which are nitrogen oxides and mercury. ČEPS and the Ministry of Industry and Trade established the stability of the network between 2020 and 2030 and individual models. One critical one that is considering shutting down all coal-fired power plants and realistic in the event of failure to grant exemptions and according to the plan to dampen the production of electricity from fossil fuels. Many factors are intertwined in modeling, shifting the construction of another nuclear power plant block, preparing a climate-energy plan. Everything becomes the basis for using the strategy of production and heat from renewable sources. Exceptions have been made on the ground that a level playing field by the European Union cannot be established for all sources. If this is not possible, according to realistic model, there is a risk that electricity from neighbouring countries may be purchased in 2024. On the other hand, exports are planned to be zero. Warmhouse associations. The termination of certain power plants is not related to granting or not granting exemptions. The decisive factor is whether an investment is worthwhile if I do not have coal secured for the next 20 years. And how are our quarrys? ČSA will be closed in 2024. Bílina - here coal is located in layers, where coal is replaced by low-heated coal with high-heated coal. In the event that low-calorific coal cannot be used for electricity production, the question is whether it is worth benefiting only high-calorific coal for heating needs. And where will the sale be for the low-heated? Therefore, it cannot be argued that the restriction or closure of thermal power plants will not have an impact on the heat plants and the price of heat for the inhabitants. And what would be the real impact on not granting exemptions and achieving BAT emission limits compared to the application of the Industrial Emissions Directive? This estimated difference is 2,4 % for NOx, 9,2 % for sulphur dioxide and 1,1 % for PM2,5, with the production of secondary particulates for NOx only estimated at 0,03 %. Germany and Finland were also opposed to the adoption of BAT conclusions. One reason was the determination of emission limits from incorrect NOx and mercury data, while the current market does not offer technologies for continuous mercury measurement. And how to replace coal? For example, heat recovery of waste from both power plants and heat plants and focus on other pollutants, which are local heating sites and transport. The Union of Towns and Municipalities represents about 8 million inhabitants of this Republic. The Union does not support this amendment because of the effects on the heat economy of the municipalities themselves. The Union's priority is to ensure the supply of heat at reasonable prices, and cities are obliged to behave with proper care and cannot thwart their investments, for example, in the grid. These arguments are mainly relevant for the consideration of the general ban on brown coal for use in local heating sites. The Union supports a gradual transition and will not support changes that do not offer an alternative. Association of Industry of the Czech Republic. Since 1990, the industry has invested CZK 220 billion in air protection. The reduction in emissions from 1990 to 2014 has decreased by 93 per cent in volume for sulphur oxides, 77 per cent for nitrogen oxides and 54 per cent for ammonia. [[9.30 hours]] According to data from the Czech Hydrometeorological Office from 2015, 54,5 % PM2,5 came from local heating sites. Energy and heating represented only 7.1. The BAT exemption institute is enshrined directly in the Industrial Emissions Directive precisely in cases where negative economic and social impacts would outweigh the potential environmental benefits of BAT. The granting of an exemption from BAT to the Czech Republic assumes that the operator of the installation will present a design scenario indicating what emission limits it will meet, and these limits must be as close to BAT levels as possible. Any derogation from BAT shall justify and document the installation on economic data. Whether we want it or not, electricity production is closely linked to heat production. Avoiding exemptions would endanger heat sources for 177,000 households, which is half a million people connected to central heat supply. It should be noted that most of the resources are located in socially sensitive regions. The total investment costs required to meet the requirements of BAT conclusions for large combustion plants burning brown or black coal can be estimated on the basis of the expected emission reduction costs at the level of 13 to 36 billion. Crowns. However, these estimates reflect only the achievement of BAT requirements by technologies for NOx, sulphur dioxide and dust pollutants. The Association of Industry of the Czech Republic supports gradual departure from fossil fuels and the creation of an energy mix based on clean fuels, i.e. core and renewable sources. They cling to environmental protection and energy savings. However, it rejects non-conceptionary efforts that threaten not only the Czech industry, but households and the overall energy security of the country. My final comment on this issue. As part of the discussion on the environmental committee, a working group was set up to assess the implementation of BAT technologies. It shall consist of all the components concerned, including representatives of non-profit organisations. It does not seem constructive to me that the conclusions of this working group should not be known and we have limited it to the already enshrined change in the law. For this reason too, I cannot support this amendment. I still have to add how other countries of the European Union approach the granting of exemptions. In 2018, the European Commission published a study that exemptions are generally common practice. In total, more than 100 of these exemptions from the area of glass industry, steel industry, refineries and cement plants, where BAT conclusions have already been implemented. Specifically, Belgium, where there are 3 exceptions, Estonia 4, Finland 10, France 19, Croatia 3, Hungary 3, Ireland 1, Italy 7, Malta 1, Poland 7, Portugal 6, Sweden 6, Slovakia 7 and United Kingdom 19. The Czech Republic has 7 in the glass industry. The granting of exemptions for large combustion plants has not yet been possible. The BAT conclusions are of 2017 and are four years for possible exemptions. And as the last and very briefly I would like to comment on the amendment of my colleague, Zahradník. While I understand the reasons on which it is presented, I would like to point out that the Constitutional Court has assessed whether there is a threat to home freedom and has concluded that this is not the case. Indeed, the existing wording of the law has led to prevention and educational effect. Experience shows that the control itself did not take place in 99 percent of all notifications, when the first call sent by the environmental department with extended scope was sufficient. Since there is no abuse, there is therefore no reason to change the existing wording of the law, therefore I will not support this proposal either. And a complete conclusion: I am very glad that we are all interested in improving the air condition in our country. However, it depends on what path is chosen to achieve the stated goal. I firmly believe that this path will be rational and based on the common sense of each of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u11	Thank you, Madame. Next, Mrs Balcarová is enrolled in the debate at the third reading. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, for starters, I would just like to say that a colleague from the Committee on the Environment and the rapporteur for this amendment, Mrs Eva Fialová, spoke to me. I had the feeling we had a representative of the Confederation of Industry and Transport talking here. At this point, I would like to remind you that today we will be voting on an amendment on air protection, which I see as perhaps the most important law so far that we have had in the Committee on the Environment. There have been a lot of amendments, some of which we will vote on, and I would like you to think about and support the amendment proposed by the Pirates, which concerns large coal power plants, namely brown coal power plants in the Czech Republic, which have the possibility under current legislation to request exemptions from European air pollution limits. Our amendment initially opposed the granting of exemptions at all because we perceive that large coal power plants are a significant polluter involved in air pollution in the Czech Republic. Since the reservations were expressed by both industrialists and the Ministry and colleagues in the Committee on the Environment, we have made a compromise proposal. At this point, we are no longer saying that exemptions cannot be granted, but we have set the period for which exemptions can be granted for four years. I would like to remind you that before the elections you spoke on the issue of air protection and on the poll of the Group of NGOs The Green Circle you spoke directly on the question whether you would oppose the granting of exemptions from new pollution limits for coal power plants. Question - I'll read you how you answered to remember how you thought just before the election. So the CSSD answers that question yes. KDU-ČSL answers: Yes, not granting exceptions is in the public interest, coal is the fuel of the past. KSČM: Flat granting of exemptions is not a way for us. However, we cannot now exclude that we will not support any of the possible proposed exceptions. TOP 09 just says yes. Absolutely, yes. The YES movement replied by reference to its electoral programme, which states: We will ensure the production of electricity by a mix of resources, which will be based on the growing share of nuclear energy and renewable resources and vice versa in the gradual decline of brown coal power plants. ODS: We believe that without coal power plants and heat plants, our energy will not be able to do so for a long time. Solar power plants and other so-called renewable resources will not replace their share. So if we have set excessively strict limits, it will be necessary to grant exceptions. And the SPD didn't respond to that question at all in its program. So from this poll, I understand that the vast majority of political subjects sitting in the Chamber of Deputies today declared before the elections that they would not be in favour of granting exemptions for large coal resources. I would like to remind you of this, and I hope that you will remember that in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u13	Thank you. Next up... Now I have two factual points. First of all, Mr Schiller and then Mrs Aulická. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u14	Hello, thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is not entirely true, honourable Members, that the biggest source, or one of the largest, is industrial sources of pollution. Let's face it, the biggest source of pollution is car transport, which we should focus on priority, the second largest, or even before it are local space heaters, which actually caught the Ministry of the Environment by writing, and I think it is a very decent implementation of the subsidy title of the boiler subsidy. That the worst boilers are being removed and replaced by the state-of-the-art ones that will actually reduce the pollution significantly, and there is no need to say that industry is the largest polluter. It's not true. And at that second seminar that we held, it really was clearly shown on the figures, on the graphs, how long-term this tendency has been declining and how really industry, if it's done now in the last year, maybe two back, because we don't have new data yet, will show that in the end industry is even better off than we think. We are now on the substance of the matter where, as my colleague, the Chair of the Committee on the Environment, Balcarová, the pirát, really, it is based on conjecture and only some impressions, and none of this is substantiated. The fact that he then accuses his colleague of lobbying some business companies and energy, unfortunately, we have the opposite feeling about the environment, on the whole committee. And the fact that Greenpeace is dictating us here and dictating the Rainbow Movement through Madam President, so I just wanted to ask your help, Mr President, that the President should not attack us that we are some lobbyists for some kind of energy when there really is an activist from these circles behind each of her comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u15	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Next she will speak with a factual remark from Mrs Aulická. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me make a little comment on my previous speakers. I must say that I am glad that finally the representatives of the Ústí Region, colleague Schiller and colleague Fialová, speak the same language, and who you know from the last parliamentary term, I think you know what I'm talking about because I was one of those Members who wanted to break the limits of the Czechoslovak army downstairs, and I think it has its reasons. And allow me to respond to my colleague Balcarová. Don't be mad at me, it's completely meaningless to attack. I could now blame you for the fact that your speech and your amendments have been written by environmental movements, such as Greenpeace and the Rainbow Movement, and I think I wouldn't be far. I'm a little sorry that I feel like you really don't know what you're talking about, because you couldn't say that in the Chamber of Deputies. I think Mrs. Fialová has made some pretty serious arguments. I identify with them, and I'm glad someone's still thinking straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u17	Thank you. In this way, the factual remarks have been exhausted and Mr Jan Zahradník has been applied in with a proper application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my contribution with a kind of sad response to Mr Schiller's speech. The gesture is based on the fact that I remember how MEPs behaved for YES in the draft amendment to Law 114 on the Conservation of Nature and Landscape, which was all written by environmental activists. That's when you supported the novel. But, of course, I agree with you here, and I think we need to be very careful in this regard. At the outset, the Minister, as the promoter of the law, told us that this is a transposition amendment, a novel that is once again triggered, as we have almost always been used to, by pressure from the European Commission, by fear of inflection against our Republic, and that we therefore have to approve the amendment very quickly. This would all be clear if it were the tribal text of the amendment, i.e. the conditions for incorporation of biofuels into diesel and diesel petrol. Here I have to admit, we've already resigned, that we've all come to terms with the fact that we have to mix biofuels into diesel and gasoline. Perhaps many of us suspect that the European Commission, within the framework of the net mobility package, is still preparing for us to increase the percentage of biofuels required to increase, and we will have to destroy our cars' engines with these low-quality diesel and petrol drives. But I think the law has other pitfalls. This very tribal text alone could probably be adopted without any major debates and discussions due to concern about infringement. Finally, the debates and discussions do not involve much of the tribal text itself. They concern the amendments that have been tabled here to the committee and then at second reading, which concern actually a certain programming direction, which, of course, is based on the circles of environmental activists, i.e. the efforts to limit brown coal burning, significantly limit brown coal energy and heating in our Republic. It's possible to look at it from three perspectives. And we've gotten used to it here, and in the last parliamentary term, we've been dealing with, like, the Paris Agreement, a major global global clause. Here it is possible to look at it globally, led by an effort to contribute to reducing air pollution on our planet. But here it must be realized that the Czech Republic produces 0,31 percent of the world's CO2 production, while China produces 29.5 percent, the United States 14,3 percent. Of course, the global aspect is nice, in the past period we've been thinking about it from one side to the other, you've finally ratified the Paris Agreement and signed it, you've committed our republic to something vague for a hundred years, albeit enforceable, for a hundred years. And then there's the regional view. The regional view, of course, is already significant in our environment. We know that there are regions in our country where the limits for air pollution, the days in which they are being exceeded, are being fulfilled basically shortly after the beginning of the calendar year, and in Ostrava those days with a exceeded level of pollution, our goal is being fulfilled sometime in February, maybe in March. Of course, we're trying to improve the environment here, clean the air. We must realize that we are not alone in pollution. Right now in the Moravian-Silesian region, there is significant pollution coming from Polish power plants, and here I think it is the government's duty to try to negotiate some changes with Polák in their actions. Regardless of the fact that the decline in brown coal energy and the coal-fired industry at all could lead to problems of course with employment in these regions, and I do not think that any of the inhabitants of the Moravian-Silesian region, but also of course does not want the Ústí Region. Our power plants and heat plants have been continuously greenized since the 1990s. There is a continuous process of improving their outputs, reducing their emissions, and of course their operators, their owners, are doing all of this. [[9.50 hours]] As for the local view, that's probably the closest thing we have to all of us. And here we have to say, and I think Mr Schiller mentioned here that the largest polluters are local heating sites. Then there's traffic, then there's coal heat plants, power plants. According to ČHMÚ, the energy and heat generation sector of 6.5 % participated in the emission of dust particles from the PM10 fraction in the Czech Republic, while local domestic heating was 36,4 percent. For the PM2,5 fraction, this is for energy 7,1 per cent, local domestic heating 54,5 per cent. So this is where the road really leads with an effort to improve the emissions situation at local heating sites. But I'll get to that in the second part of my performance. I just want to say what it would mean if we tried to contain the brown coal energy in our country. Fifty percent of our energy consumption still covers coal. The core, of course, is an important source, but let us just remember the difficulties we experience in trying to promote an increase in the share of nuclear energy in our energy mix. What problems are there with the implementation of the buildings, whether the Dukovany Nuclear Power Plant or the Temelín Nuclear Power Plant. So far, no one knows who should be funding it. The government is not sure whether it should impose on CEZ joint-stock companies to finance these constructions and completions, or whether it should allocate state resources and allocate part of the business company as a state enterprise and finance the construction of a core in the state interest of state money. So far, the government has not been able to say. It would mean shutting down coal power. Just one thing. It would increase our dependence on imported gas from Russia. And that's where we are at 74 percent of the consumption - Russian gas. And I think that given the situation between the United States, the EU, Russia today, it would certainly not be good. The impact of the proposed change that would start with the adoption of our President's proposal from the Committee on the Environment would also mean the impact on ordinary citizens. This would also be the case for heat plants, the abolition of the possibility of exemptions from those BATs or Best Available Techniques, the best available technology, for entities over 300 megawatts would certainly affect the heating plants, even if my colleague does not say so. They claim that these are only power plants, and here, simply heat plants for the supply of our large cities form a backbone system and without heating brown coal, we could not have imagined the heat supply. It is therefore not possible to place air protection in the conflict as one public interest and also our energy self-sufficiency and competitiveness of our industry as the other public interest. These two public interests cannot be put into conflict, so one must give in to the other. It is simply necessary to address and promote both public interests equally. I would like to mention - or we are rejecting the proposal, which would mean abolishing the possibility of applying for exemptions after 2025. We will vote against this proposal as Members of the Civil Democratic Party. To the second proposal we have here, it's an opportunity to ban the burning of brown coal in the municipalities so that the mayor can have that option. Well, I'm sure there's a problem here, as I said before. The level of pollution coming from local heating plants is large and I think it needs to be addressed. We actually have a valid law here, which we're turning into some other part of it, and it says it would be from 1. 9. 2022 should only be used high-quality solid fuel boilers meeting third-class and higher parameters according to our standard. Therefore, 1st and 2nd class boilers should no longer be used. We already have that in the law. That's just what he's here, and we don't have to worry about that. Of course burning coal is the thing that exists here, people bought coal boilers. We've got... If I go back to those poor-quality boilers - watch it! - in the current year there are more than 150,000 local boilers that do not meet at least 3rd grade. A hundred and fifty thousand homes have these bad boilers. Moreover, it is possible that several tens of thousands of households are using some self-help heaters, so they have not undergone any revisions and cannot even be included in any class. Second wave of cauldron subsidies. Here it came to the fact that the possibilities of asking for support for the purchase of coal boilers were excluded, so here it simply has green biomass and have green heat pumps, of course, which are very expensive things. It turns out, and here I think it is possible to point out with some concern that there is certainly a relatively large proportion of users of the 1st and 2nd emission class boilers that will have to end with these boilers in 2022. And I'm worried that they don't believe that anybody can help them get those boilers out of their homes. They see around them that the state is very weak in enforcing its interests. Let's take a look at the first-class roads. Once upon a time, there was a limit where billboards were to be removed from their neighborhood, and those billboards are still there. The state is simply unable to extricate them. We will look at numerous statements by ŘSD, which says that the repair of the D1 motorway is constantly collapsing on the fact that such a significant construction is being questioned in many sections by environmental organisations, Children of the Earth, all possible organizations that constantly file against building permits for this construction and that construction is not continuing, are already delayed. Another public interest cannot be realised. These people see that the state is powerless, and all our efforts come across this inability to extort state interest. The comparison of coal boilers, which are now very high quality, meets the ecodesign compared to biomass boilers, i.e. so much fuel supported. It's a difference that's 10 times the order, maybe 15 times the number. The 15-fold increase in emissions causes a low-quality biomass boiler than the highest-quality boiler for automatic coal burning, which will have to be from 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there are a number of things that speak against this proposal that would allow the mayors to ban the burning of brown coal across the board. I think the 1st and 2nd class boilers proposed by my colleague, Fialová, I think it is possible to respect that. That's what I think will be solved anyway. We're just, you know, done here. And otherwise, brown coal is written off, brown coal is given up, while we have a large supply of it in our country, it would be a big strategic error in our development. [[10.00 hours]] I'm sure the Minister is going to speak out with just how effective he is in the fight against those pollutants, those first-class, second-class boiler users, or those home-made ones, the very paragraph that allows domestic boilers to be checked. Mrs Fialová, the current rapporteur, said, and I appreciate that she has read my proposal and compared it with the verdict of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court ruled that the clause allowing control to enter the home and control what it was drowning in the boiler was not a violation of the right to the confidentiality of the dwelling. I think the verdict was also influenced by the fact that it was actually the controls, the intrusion doesn't occur. This paragraph has a deterrent effect, people are kind of under pressure that the control could come there, and so they may be easier to agree with the local authorities, whether local communities or municipalities entrusted with the performance of the state administration in that territory. But I don't know why there must be such a draconian possibility in our law to enter his home without the citizen's consent. Until there are conditions that maybe even justify the intrusion at first sight, we'll just be calm, we won't prosecute who has a clear conscience, who doesn't do anything like that, doesn't burn, doesn't have to worry about anything. That's very dangerous. Therefore, I think that despite the fact that the Constitutional Court somehow decided that the experience of the mayors with the section allowing them to enter the house is not bad, on the contrary, maybe they are good, so I would like to propose the very proposal that I have made, that it should be possible to enter the house with permission and in the presence of the owner, so that his presence and consent are simply required here. The deflecting effect here will remain preserved, on which nothing will grow, nor will it be reduced, and that possibility, one of the most extraordinary, can be said to infiltrate the organ, the possibility of the police having in their hands the decision of the court, which can break through the door and enter the house, but otherwise it should not be possible. So here I think this thing should be considered. I know that both the Ministry and the committee have taken an unadvisable position on this proposal. So think about whether each of you need to have the opportunity in the law to enter a citizen's home without permission, or whether it is necessary to require his consent to enter and carry out a check, which I suggest. Vote according to how you feel, how you think, what is more advantageous for our legal environment. So we will support the substantive tribal text of the law, we will not support the proposals under the letter D by Mrs Balcarová, we will vote in favour of my proposals, and we will see how it all ends in the end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Allow me to read a few apologies. Mr Vít Rakušan apologizes from 11.00 to 12.30 for reasons of work, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek apologizes today from 14.30 for reasons of work, and Mrs Karla Maříková apologises for reasons of work and Mr Zdeněk Podal, Mr Pavel Jelínek and Jaroslav Holík, all of them from 17.30. We now have Mrs Balcarová's point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to respond to a fellow Zahradník. He was talking a lot about our former amendment to allow the mayors to ban brown coal burning in their communities. We have withdrawn the amendment, so there is no vote on it. My colleague obviously didn't see it, so that's what I'm saying. And I just wanted to say that we didn't really want to forbid the burning of brown coal, on the contrary, we gave confidence to the mayors because we think they can tell you if their community is one where it makes sense simply to ban one, two people who burn in their boiler or stove poor coal and infect the whole village. So that's what the proposal was, but we downloaded it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u21	Thank you. We don't have any more factual remarks, we'll continue with properly logged in. Mr. Vácha is next, to whom I give my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Minister said at the beginning that he would answer any questions about the amendments, so I have a general remark and then I have a few questions. Although the submitted amendment declares support for second generation biofuels, I fear that it does not respond sufficiently to the situation where the second generation biofuels are essentially unsellable in our country. I asked, and while second generation biofuels are commonly used in Germany, they are allowed to be produced in our country, but they must not be sold and exported abroad, which is not a question of legislation or law, but it is a question of Czech technical standard, which contains some national annex, which limits the use of second generation biofuels in the Czech Republic considerably. So I wanted to ask - so that the declared objective of the amendment could be fulfilled, it is necessary to change this standard. So I would like to ask the Minister how it is, how they feel about it and whether they will initiate a change in the standard so that the law is fulfilled. That's a general remark. I'm not saying I'm right, but I'd like to know the answer. Then I would have questions specific to several amendments. The minister actually said that at the beginning. This law was submitted to the House during the previous term of office and it was presented in the original version because of the infringement, yet there was some movement. You yourself, Minister, have admitted that you are dealing with changes in this law or wanted to deal with amendments. You said yourself that, of course, the proposals do not go through inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, which I think is wrong. I would have two specific questions or comments on two amendments. I am not saying that I am an expert in this area, which is why the questions may be quite lay, but these are the two amendments of Mr Schiller, if either he or the Minister would answer. My point is that one amendment can be interpreted in two ways. One possibility is that the amendment will leave the possibility of importing certain biofuels from abroad, but it will not take into account the emission limits. My second personal interpretation is that it will essentially allow the illegal import of biofuels without tax, because some biofuels will be separated from tax warehouses and the state will have no control over their imports. I would like either the Ministry or my colleague to explain my interpretation of this amendment. Then there is another amendment to avoid circumventing the obligation to comply with emission limits by increasing the administrative burden for entrepreneurs by introducing quartile instead of annual monitoring of compliance with emission limits. The financial stability of the company will, of course, be controlled beyond compliance with the limits. [[10.10 hours]] So I wanted to ask you what the reason is for this quartal - and now I don't know if I should turn to you or to the minister - for the quartal monitoring of compliance with the emission limits. And that's where the audits follow up. These audits are done all year round. If the audit, even if it's not an audit, if you think it's enough, or if the audits have to be done quarterly. So that is one general question about the standard and two specific questions about Mr Schiller's amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u23	Thank you. Next up, Mrs Richterová is enrolled in the debate, and Mr Munzar will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we have received from the rapporteur a detailed explanation of some amendments. Maybe some of you remember that I've already been performing here for a particular changeling that was about an air quality improvement program. That's one topic I'd like to focus on right now, because it's one of the very specific tools that we have a duty to fulfill as a state, it's a tool that can be useful, or, as I've already said here, it can be that kind of paperwork, something that's only formalistically written. I'm glad for the answer from the Ministry of Environment that I got to my last interview. I will now use this space to respond to it, to respond to what has been said by Mrs Fialová. And, of course, I'll be glad if there's an answer to that. I understand that the amendment to exempt the air quality improvement programme from measures of a general nature is such a little cat dog that there are also some steps in a good direction, and then there is something that needs to reduce public participation. I'll try to describe it. It needs to be established that there must be a timetable - that is good, but there is lack of counting the benefits of specific measures, numbering, or prioritizing, and so on. In a letter from the Ministry of the Environment to my argument that it will not be possible to enter the public by not being able to review administrative courts, it is argued that public participation will not be limited against the existing regulation, because the Constitutional Court has also judged the possibility of judicial review of acts which are not formally measures of a general nature but fulfil its material characteristics. So my comment is that it is not true that the public's involvement against the existing regulation would not be limited, because first in court they will have to be demonstrated - in any courts, of course - the material characteristics. It needs to be realized that in practice it will be necessary to prove this so that it is possible to bring the lawsuit at all. So in doing so, allowing the public to engage in the preparation of an air quality improvement programme, this is a restriction. Another thing is that the Ministry of Environment will cooperate on this preparation within a working platform of working groups. Of course there is always an important detail, and here it is that representatives of the nonprofit sector will be invited as needed. We have to imagine what it means to invite someone as necessary, which means how it suits me or doesn't suit me. In order for democracy to work, it is precisely the representative of civil society that needs to be invited to such professional subjects all the time. It is clear from the debate that representatives such as the Confederation of Industry and Trade get a lot of hearing. It's okay. But it still has to be given space and hearing to public representatives gathered in various interest organizations. That's just as important. So for me, the important question is whether the representatives of the public will be permanent members of the working group and whether the status of such a working group will be clear, whether they will be really - and that is about simple, but clear moment - if they will be invited to all the meetings of the working group. And now the last point that has already been discussed here is that it is actually a parliamentary amendment, but it was actually written by the Ministry of the Environment. There is a hugely important question, why this rather fundamental change was not the content of the amendment itself. And the second thing, the reasoning is quite steep now. If the petitioner were the Ministry and did not use the Member, it would either have an obligation to process the impact assessment of RIA regulation, or to justify why RIA does not need to be processed, to apply for an exemption and not to process it. So we are actually disrupting good practice so that when a proposal is submitted by the Ministry, it will process the impact assessments of regulation. If the ministries start using parliamentary proposals systemically, they will very easily avoid this obligation. Finally, there is one thing that has been said here, namely that the public will be involved in the future in the process of the SEA. However, it should be noted that the SEA is weaker than that of a general measure, because in the context of the SEA process, comments can only be taken into account. I will not repeat myself, I have also said this here last time, but that is precisely what a person as an active citizen in commenting on things that concern him, often sees that the comments are taken into account, but they are not really worked out, they are not really settled. And that's why I'm standing here today, because I'm also wondering if the SEA is going to be in the process of completing those existing air quality improvement programs because they've been dropped by the court and they're going to be finished. And that is probably the very last question, which I am also very curious about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u25	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mrs Fialová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u26	Hello. I'd be quick to respond to the questions asked. As far as air quality improvement programmes are concerned, at the moment it was really paper paper, where municipalities did not comply with individual measures and were not obliged to comply with these programmes and to take individual measures. Priorityisation of individual measures is set out in the air quality programme itself. So there will be individual timetables. The involvement of the public according to the SEA process is governed by the law of the EIA, and since it was precisely stretching out, the programs will be determined on the real possibilities of the municipalities themselves, the regions to implement individual measures. Some of the demands or attacks were really unrealistic, and that is why they were happening. And why did the Ministry of the Environment write? Here I have to make a little shelter, because I admitted right at the beginning that I cooperated with the Ministry of Environment because I am from the Ústí Region, which was affected by the abolition of air quality improvement programmes, and I really mind that we do not have the opportunity to achieve individual measures in the cities themselves. And why did this not happen in the amendment itself? Because the transposition of the European Union was also submitted during the previous parliamentary term and the results of the courts were not known. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u27	Thank you. Another factual point - Mrs Richterová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u28	Thank you for the floor. In a factual point, I just want to reiterate what I have already said here in the debate at second reading that it is not at all that by dismissing the Courts it would be impossible to implement the existing measures in the proposed air quality improvement programmes. The courts merely said that, as the programs are designed, they are inadequate, they are too vague, and that, as my previous speakers have already said, they are paperwork. They won't lead to improvement. But it's not like the good parts or the specific parts couldn't be filled. On the contrary. Nobody's really stopping people from doing anything. Those programs, the way they're created, are supposed to be the best clue possible. It is certainly not that municipalities are only allowed to do what is written in them. This seems to me to be extremely important to realise that no action under way means no limitation of the work of the municipalities at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u29	Thank you, and I have a factual comment from Mrs Fialová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u30	I forgot to answer one more question about the working group. In one of the resolutions of the Committee on the Environment - now unfortunately I do not know what - we set out this, precisely the name of the group and what it will deal with, define, define and is firmly included, that they will consist of representatives of non-profit organizations. And, if I may say so, Mr. Rovenský was appointed to the Green Circle. But I'm not quite sure. This is a question for the Ministry of the Environment, whom it has proposed and will regularly participate in the negotiations. And only now to respond to air quality improvement programs. I was here in my original debate justifying what led me to this. Because if the mayor isn't enlightened, I really don't blame them for choosing, for example, a playground for children rather than some environmental measures that aren't binding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u31	Thank you. And a colleague named Munzar has arrived. Please, you have the floor. Mrs Balcarová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister. Thank you for the floor. I would also like to comment on Mrs Balcarová's proposal, which concerns the ban on exemptions, and I would actually like to warn against it. I identify with a lot of things that Mrs Fialová, or Mr Zahradník, has said. We have to work on changing the energy mix, but we have to do it prudently and replace one source only if we are prepared to replace it, not forbid something in advance and close the door. I consider the proposal of the Pirates to be unreasonable, unthinkable and, above all, irresponsible, because it can bring our country to the limit of energy poverty in the future, reduce energy self-sufficiency and security of our country, thereby increasing energy prices for Czech households, which would be an attack on our standard of living. It is as if the Member has made a compromise. He proposes not to grant exemptions for up to four years. And does he know that by 2025, new BAT conclusions will be approved in Brussels, which no one can estimate today, what will they be? And it's really stupid to forbid exceptions from something we don't know today. Do we now know what the real impact will be? So let us not hold hands and act foolishly. Perhaps it will again be like last year when the current BAT conclusions and the resulting new limits were adopted, despite the resistance of the Czech Republic and, paradoxically, Germany. And only a few tenths of a percent were missing to be accepted, but we can still make a very clear declaration today by this amendment to implement the plan and to go beyond it. And it doesn't matter that we don't know what 2025's like. It should be stressed that large energy sources have invested many tens of billions of crowns under the national transitional plan to reach the limits of the Industrial Emissions Directive 2012. If this amendment were to pass, where will the Czech Republic, Czech industry and Czech households take energy? Because if we don't build a new nuclear source, it won't be for many years yet, we can't rely on the stability of supply from alternative sources of energy and shut down the traditional resources on which we are - unfortunately - still dependent on 50 percent, so another possible source is to build steam-gas power plants. And do we really want to attach ourselves to the dependence on gas from Russia? And isn't it necessary to reduce the real objective of the Czech Republic's self-sufficiency to its own energy and thus reduce our security? Because that's where the road actually leads. A high level of energy independence is an advantage of our economy. And we are seeing completely unreasonable solutions in the European context as well. We want to dampen production, but at the same time we want to promote the development of electromobility. But the electric car also needs electricity to work, and the electricity has to be produced somewhere. And if neighbouring Germany is shutting down its production and becomes dependent on electricity imports, do we want to go this way too? The solution often loses its senses and wins demagogy, and that is precisely the case with this amendment. At second reading, the Member said that environmental protection and air purity are a priority. I agree, but it has to be done wisely. By the way, the cleanest air would be if we didn't drive cars, we didn't shine at home, we didn't heat, it would be clean air, industry wouldn't work, but our citizens probably wouldn't thank us. I also want my children to breathe clean air, but I also want them to come home, the lights on, the washing machine worked, the heating was heating, and I stress, at an affordable price, which is a major priority for us, the ODS. She and the social media communications won't go without electricity. I'm sure the Pirates have read the great science fiction novel Dark by Ondřej Neff. There is described a company without energy. So it's not political politicians in the novel, it's extraterrestrials' fault, but that's not the kind of apocalypse anybody wants. Let us not, therefore, put forward the possibility of deciding on our resources in the future. We need to maintain variability in decision-making according to current needs and possibilities in the future. So let us be prudent in our decision making. I'm begging you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u33	Thank you. Let me read your apologies. Mrs Květa Matušovská apologizes from 11.00 to 12.30 for reasons of work, Mrs Jana Pastuchová apologises today from 18.00 to the end of the day for reasons of foreign travel. And now, with the de facto remark of Mr. Třešňák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u34	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I will try to respond within those two minutes to Mr Zahradník, who called us demagogues, but if he argued by Germany and by increasing the dependence of German energy on imports of gas from Russia, I would certainly point out that unlike Germany or the Federal Republic of Germany, the Czech Republic certainly did not approach the Atomausstieg to close all nuclear power plants by 2020, rather the other way around. So we will now try to preserve the current state of affairs and, in fact, support the delaying of decisions on the construction of new nuclear blocks. That's how we see it at this point. So we certainly pirát not want to increase dependence on imports from Russia, we do not want to preserve energy and we do not want the darkness, but we want a reasonable discussion, and especially on modern energy based on an even and mixed mix of one that will be based on nuclear energy, renewable resources and, of course, on coal to the extent that it can be usable. And if I look at the updated state energy concept of 2015, the coal downturn is clearly visible there. It's in the order of about 30 percent by 2025, but it's there. So if we really don't want to make toilet paper out of an updated state energy concept, let's talk about it rationally and even on a subcommittee on energy. Thank you and I apologise for not addressing Mr Munzar through Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u35	Thank you. Good morning. I beg Mr Zahradník to take action. And then Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u36	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to speak rationally about this. And because we all need to know that renewables are currently maiming the entire energy price system. Those huge grants in the order of 40 billion. The koruna annually simply puts that energy in a completely absurd position in terms of prices. This also results in the fact that the real price of energy is not real enough to allow the market to build nuclear resources, but at the same time, we must prepare for the fact that different environmental organisations are still coming up against the construction of nuclear resources, as we have witnessed. And we just have to stay with the coal in our personal interest. And we can't trouble ourselves. To build barriers for ourselves to use the most natural resource we have in our country, that is to use brown coal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u37	Thank you. Please Mr Munzar and then Mr Ferjenčík - still factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u38	Thank you. I want to respond to Mr Třešňák through Mr President. I would have signed almost every sentence you said here a moment ago, but that is why I do not understand why you came up with this amendment, because this amendment concludes the roads and the reasonable possibility of deciding according to our needs in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u39	Thank you. Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u40	Thank you for the floor. I just want to remind you that the ODS is responsible for the solar tunnel, not the pirát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u41	Mr Třešňák - also a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u42	I'm just in a hurry. Perhaps Mr Munzar and I should have communicated within the subcommittee. However, when I look at a list of those sources that would be affected without having to modernize, there really are a handful of them. And now I'm not gonna add it up, the individual performances. However, when you are here for example. It argued by mining brown coal in northern Bohemia and specifically the capacity of the mine Bílina, as well as for example. Bílina mine is used, as far as I know, only for the source of Ledvice supercritical, which will not be touched completely because it is the most modern source in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u43	Thank you. Mr Zahradník, also a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u44	I must therefore reject what my colleague has said, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the ODS would be responsible for the renewable energy policy. I remember well when I used to be the governor, how much pressure was on the part of environmentalists and the Green Party, which was represented by their President, Mr Bursík, that we must meet the EU's demands for the share of renewables, solar resources, wind resources in our energy sector. That's where we need to look for the cause. And as anyone who voted, it can be found in the House's record of negotiations. Someone mentioned Germany. Germany is beginning to rethink its fatal act, which has done by rejecting nuclear energy and establishing its energy system on renewables, so unpredictable, and depending on Russian gas. Today there are diaries that have actually recently published that Germany's decision on this road to their energy can be considered the biggest failure of Germany in post-war history. The Němec will see what will bring them their decision to resign on both coal and nuclear power. Unfortunately, we are part of a system of economic Europe and what will happen fatally in Germany, unfortunately, will also affect us. So we must protect our own interests, and we must not reject coal energy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u45	Thank you. I have no further factual points, so please Mr Munzar, who is duly registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u46	Thank you. I have already performed in a proper debate, so Mr President probably hasn't clicked on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u47	I'm so sorry. The President of the House has not erased your name. So I'm sorry again. Mrs Balcarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to my previous speakers, but only briefly. For one thing, it has been mentioned several times that coal energy is not a significant air polluter. I would like to respond to this by the actual figures published in the report on the state of the environment, in the last report published by the Ministry of the Environment. According to this report, industrial energy is responsible for 78 percent of emissions of sulphur dioxide and 47 percent of oxides of nitrogen. I think it's a big enough percentage to realize that coal energy is one of the largest air polluters. It really can't be downplayed. Then I would only react briefly to some comments about the darkness in the Czech Republic. I would like to say that the Czech Republic is the sixth largest electricity exporter in the world, in absolute terms. We're not really in danger of being dark. Definitely not. So it was two reactions. And the third thing I'd like to tell you and share with you. I generally have no objection to exceptions. I think that if exceptions are justified and granted in moderation and discretion, then they are certainly appropriate in all cases where any exception is involved. That's why there are exceptions. But I have a serious concern, and when we discussed this issue in the pirate party, we agreed that granting exemptions in the Czech Republic especially for energy and air pollution does not have a good tradition. I'd like to share some serious facts with you. And you will see for yourself that the Czech Republic, when it can negotiate exceptions in Brussels, does it and does it very successfully. And I think, in many cases, the justification for these exceptions is definitely debatable. So exceptions to European air limits have already been granted in the Czech Republic. In 2016, the Industrial Emissions Directive, which set new emission limits for power plants, heat plants and other large sources of pollution, entered into force. Some countries, including the Czech Republic, have claimed in Brussels that new limits will apply to certain polluters on their territory only from 2020, i.e. with a four-year delay. In fact, we have actually been inspired by this figure for four years in our amendment when we compromisely proposed that these exceptions be granted for exactly four years, when the Czech Republic itself negotiated with this time limit. [[10.40 hours]] But I'll keep going. However, these exceptions were not intended to cover all sources, but only those where this was strictly necessary. I would like to read how many exceptions were requested by individual countries in the form of a transitional national plan: Germany, which, by the way, has the largest fleet of coal power plants in Europe, number of requests zero, Belgium zero, Denmark zero, France zero, Italy zero, Cyprus zero, Latvia zero, Luxembourg zero, Malta zero. Netherlands zero, Austria zero, Sweden zero, Slovenia 4, Slovakia 7, Lithuania 7, Greece 8, Ireland 12, Hungary 16, Spain 34, Poland - European Union's largest polluter - 73, Czech Republic 97. You hear well, the Czech Republic has requested 97 exceptions. Only one country asked for more, namely the UK, which asked for 129, but it was mostly natural gas resources. So that's why we're trying to limit the exceptions. This is because the Czech Republic in Brussels simply lobbies for the Czech industry in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u49	Thank you. Really, Mrs Aulická.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u50	Thank you, Mr President. That's right. Let me respond to my previous speaker through you. I'm sorry, but what you're saying here, I'm gonna have to call it altered facts and edited data. And I guess we can tell, and I've already said it here once before who's giving you this data. I think that our environmental movements are quite well known in the Czech Republic and we have been dealing with them for quite a long time and we know how they can adjust their data and their analyses to benefit, as they say, the Czech Republic. You're saying there's no danger of darkness. Well, I'm worried that in 2030, we're gonna have an energy hole here that the government hasn't responded to yet or the previous government hasn't responded, nobody's doing anything about it. And the pirát do, great, we're in no danger here, we're in the balance. Oh, my God, why are we exporting why we're the biggest exporters in electricity? Because that's how the whole system is built. We can't do that much about it. The energy from Germany and so on is flowing through us. And the only ones who can influence this flow are those coal heat plants. I'm sorry, it's the only regulator that works here. I think that the representatives of the Ministry of Industry could finally speak as a minister, and they could tell us some technical things about it. And perhaps I would like to say that the biggest polluters are traffic and, on the contrary, we are growing in the aviation industry. And I would just like to say to you pirát through Mr President: Who will pay for this, your environmental knowledge and your ecological new building? Who's gonna pay for this? Our citizens again? So we're gonna raise them -- what are we gonna raise them? 100, 300, 400 percent? But the pirát are gonna say we're green!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u51	Now I have four factual points. Mr Schiller, then Mrs Balcarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Serious colleagues, colleagues, I have to respond, even though I didn't think I would. He industry, when they ask for exceptions from industry, it's not that they requested exceptions from large sources. They requested exemptions from the glass industry, the steel industry, the refineries, cement and lime. You're making no pears and apples here again, but you're turning it into a full fruit cocktail! In fact, BAT exemptions are from 2017 and are four years old to require exemptions. This means that there have not yet been any exemptions issued to BAT as such from large combustion sources. So don't tell people that we've asked for 90 exceptions when it's about something completely different. Yes, it concerns industry. But not large combustion sources. Then the second thing I have to respond to. Mrs Balcarová, through the President, said here that coal energy produces 70 per cent sulphur dioxide and 40 per cent NOx. Coal energy is a little different from industrial energy. It's industrial and it's a local heating facility. These two components if we combine, yes, they're 70 and 40 percent. So it's not true that they really just have big combustion sources again. And maybe one last question. We're still spinning around the core, around some resources. You like pirát have an alternative instead of coal? Come with her and we'll burn something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u53	Mrs Balcarová, then Mr Munzar and Mr Třešňák, then Mr Minister, all factual points. The Member withdraws, so please Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u54	Thank you. I want to respond to this last speech by Mrs Balcarová through Mr President. The numbers were very interesting. I'll read you other numbers. I've got data from 2014. Sorry about that, it could be a few percent different, though. Import dependence of energy from European Union countries. You mentioned Malta, for example. Well, she's got the biggest import addiction, over 95 percent. Luxembourg 95 %, Cyprus also almost 95 percent. Then I remember you mentioning Italy here. That's over 75 percent in 2014. And we're on a completely opposite scale. And I think that we need to maintain energy independence and thus maintain security. They have to judge all these suggestions not only from one graph, but to take more of these graphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u55	Mr. Mr. Třešňák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u56	I would like to forgive the technical debate, but I would like to ask Mrs Aulická through Mr President, what did she mean by regulating the network through brown coal power plants? I'm not saying I can't, but I'm curious. And if Mr Schiller mentioned here, too, what we want to replace with coal, I will again refer to an updated state energy concept. All you have to do is look into it. After 2040 there will be only one coal power plant and the rest will mostly be a mix of core and renewable sources. So let's try to stick to this document. If it's outdone, it should be updated after five years, I think. So let's update it and adapt it to the current state. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u57	Thank you. Now the Minister has the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Members, allow me, not because of the invitation to debate, but because of my own view on the matter, to say that I am extremely pleased that there are so many energy experts among us in the Chamber of Deputies. I just want to say one thing that the roads to hell are paved with good intentions. I think, in addition to all that has been said here, to all the arguments, whether for, against, such or on the other source base, I must say that investing in renewables is certainly a sufficiently deterrent case. In the completely wrong direction and the worst we could have had in the Czech Republic is photovoltaics or other renewables, which will cost us one trillion Czech crowns. I think that the idea itself, the gros itself, that we joined the activity for renewable resources, was not bad. It's wrong to do it. So I think we're just gonna cut off here and say, "we don't want coal energy, we don't want one of those things, we don't want one of those things," without having any kind of adequate compensation in time, because in time, there's also talk of exports, and I'm just gonna explain that export, so without the context, the debate doesn't really make sense. And now for the export. Yes, we are the second - sixth in the world, I am surprised, but the second largest exporting country in EDF, a French company that has a completely different size than the Czech Republic. But we need to know what our options were. After our velvet revolution, when we had installed more than one third more power than the consumption itself is still staggering in economic reorganisations that are not finished until today, see the hut, so of course we had a surplus of electricity. And what could we have done? Cut off one third of this source base, cut off actually the downstream mining and mining industries, and deal with some 400,000 wandering unemployed here? Well, I guess not. So with gradual steps, this source base is actually decreasing. It is not only a matter for ČEZ today, but of course all energy companies, which are also forgotten and operate in the Czech Republic. And I think that the transition was very continuous and very reasonable to my amazement, and let's say rational and economically viable and safety aspects acceptable to the Czech Republic. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Yes, I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, please look at things in context, listen to the arguments and take a picture of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u59	Thank you. I have two facts here - Mr. Mr. Juříček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u60	Hello. You know, I don't normally perform, ladies and gentlemen, but this time I must, because it must be said that what Mr Munzar said here and what Mr Schiller said here, I would like to add one more thing. It must be noted that the Czech Republic is the most industrialized country in the European Union in terms of industrial production linked to gross domestic product. Roughly 36% of gross domestic product is done by industry, which, of course, cannot be without energy. The second most industrialized country in Europe is Germany and, for example, England has an industry of about 11 per cent per gross domestic product. So please, let's all look at this logically and not tie up the strengths that we have built here because industry really feeds the Czech Republic. The link to industry is not only infrastructure, but, of course, education, etc. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u61	Thank you. Mrs Aulická, then Mr Lipavský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll answer your question to my colleague Třešňák. I am very sorry that you just don't know it, but the fact that the power grid is regulated using brown coal heaters is simply a bare fact, and that is how it is built in the Czech Republic. And since you and your colleagues talk about it like that, you should know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u63	Mr. Lipavský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u64	Hello. I, through Mr President, would still be able to respond to the 1990s. It is true that we had a great installed power, but also look at the environmental load we had here, what the forests in northern Bohemia looked like. It's something that's been removed a long time, sulphurization projects. I think everyone can track it. And we're talking about what we're going to release into our environment. The view may be economic, but it must take into account the cost of environmental burdens and possibly simply install such technologies so that we do not destroy nature. It's really that simple. If we don't go this way, we'll get our expenses back somewhere else. People are just gonna get sick and we're gonna pay for it in health, we're gonna pay for it with a shorter life span. So you need to think in global, not just in the balance sheet for five years in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u65	Mr Třešňák and then Mr Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u66	I'm sorry. I really wanted to forgive the technical debate, so, through Mr President, we can have fun at the level of high school or university scripts, but, as far as I know, they are fundamentally used - not fundamentally, but mainly - water power plants and gas plants to level out peaks in the energy network. So, if we have misunderstood, I apologise through the President, Mr Aulická, for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u67	Please, Mr. Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u68	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, and the GDP in Germany, which is the industry, so these figures have been between 23 and 29 percent in recent years. And besides, the advantage of coal power plants is that they're getting in quite early and it's about capacity. This means that hydropower plants cannot replace the capacity that is needed at peaks and are mainly used as energy storage plants, not for rapid performance. But, of course, that's for a different debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u69	Thank you. Did Mr Luzar still report? He's downloading. Okay. Well, that was factual. If there is no further factual point, please ask Mr Peksa with a proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u70	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. If I may, I would like to return to the subject matter of this proposal, because it is quite obviously controversial in some way at least within YES and ODS. We're talking about 31. 12. 2025 should be limited to making exceptions. I think that this is right, because as has been done here before in the debate and it is not repeated enough, 4,000 people in the Czech Republic will die every year because of the state of the air we have here. I would like to say, especially for Mrs Fialová, through Mr President - yes, it concerns the Ústí Region. Because we happen to be neighbors, so it concerns our neighbours, because our emissions are exceeded, it is a problem for us. I very much hope that you will be able to explain this to your colleagues. I don't want to touch you, I'm really surprised that the moment the environment is being dealt with here, the former employees of Lovochemy are defiling under YES. I sure hope you don't treat the environment the way it sometimes feels around Lovochemie when that sign flashes "attention, ammonia leak" in there. So let's go back to what is happening specifically in the Ústí Region. I've been looking for it, and I think the problem is solvable. Yes, some power plants will have to be upgraded in some way to reach limits. Specifically, this concerns Prunéřov II and the power plant in Počerady. I think the Tušimice power plant is capable of fulfilling this under current conditions, the Ledvice power plant also, if in any way it optimizes operation. So, yes, the objective is achievable, unfortunately, it will probably mean some way of reducing the profits of, say, ČEZ, which, I understand, may affect ČEZ's shareholders, who are also from other parts of the Republic, but it will improve the environment in the Ústí Region, and I have to acknowledge that with gratitude. I firmly hope, my colleague Aulický, through Mr President, that your interest is not motivated by the possibility of granting exceptions to the regions. I respect that you are trying to support the interests - Mr. Bubeníček from the Communist Party is currently ruling in the Ústí Region and would certainly move him to a more favourable position in negotiations with ČEZ. I firmly hope that this does not motivate you in any way and respect the interests of the environment and the health of citizens of the Ústí Region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u71	Mrs Aulická, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I once again through you to a colleague of the pirát. Well, we're from one county, if I remember correctly. I don't think we're far, about 12, 5 km, I'm Bridge, you're Litvínov. We have a little different basic attitudes, and of course, in the context of breaking the limits, etc. Don't be mad at me, but what you're saying here is bordering on certain of your probably emotional interests that you have, but that's total nonsense. And I will not comment on the fact that we have any interests in the management of the region, etc. I think that our current leadership, which has demonstrated and demonstrated in the past that it means best with the Ústí Region, I think that it also proves in communication with the previous and this year's government so that the well-deserved funds that have flowed from our region are finally in our region. I don't think yours - how do I put this? - a comment relevant and evaluating such a position. (?) děkovat you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u73	Mr. Čižinský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u74	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to say that we are discussing an amendment on air protection and that I agree that the largest polluters are local heating sites, then the automotive industry and then the rest of the industry. But we're actually dealing with how polluting energy we want in seven years. And I think that Mrs Balcarová's proposal, on which I wish to comment, is appropriate, because it is appropriate to say how much polluting energy we want. I voted in favour of this proposal in committee, I will also vote in favour of this proposal here, but I think it is also necessary to focus more on the local tapioca and car industry. I hope the Ministry will come up with some suggestions on how to improve these two larger sources of pollution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u75	Thank you, too. Before Mr Schiller comes forward, Mr Holík is reporting with de facto effect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the most environmentally friendly energy is the one we do not consume. We're still dealing with the consequences here, but no one here has dealt with reducing this energy intensity. I'm from a small village in Moravia. And here - I don't know how it is in the Czech Republic - we say: the largest polluters - local heating sites. In our village, no one's burning coal anymore. And I think that this trend will continue throughout the Republic. So once again, let's look for ways to virtually reduce energy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u77	Thank you. Mr Schiller, please, with a proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I will not respond to the conspiracy theories of my colleague Peksa. I'm not even from Lovochemie, nor have I had anything to do with Mr. Bubeníček. Still, I'm from Most. So just like that. I would like to answer my colleague - I finally got to it - two questions he had on my amendments. I'm gonna repeat them because I don't think you're gonna remember them. So the first one. One possibility is that, while the amendment leaves the possibility of importing certain biofuels from abroad, it will not take into account the addition of emission limits. It's just the opposite. It was those processors and importers who could import, import, import in another or conditional tax regime, but unfortunately they could not apply these imported biofuels, especially bio-oil, to their emission limits. And this makes it even so that they can actually be counted into their emission limits as they show them every year. So that's the answer to the first question. The second question was: Avoiding the obligation to comply with emission limits creates another administrative burden for entrepreneurs according to my opinion. The petitioner proposes that, instead of the annual monitoring of compliance with emission limits, checks should be carried out on a quarterly basis. I've already told my colleague when I borrowed the questions because I didn't hear the first one, it's quartatally because it happened, and it's purely from practice that these companies either died out or changed their names. And if they didn't, then it was found additionally that they didn't meet their emission limits, so unfortunately those companies were no longer traceable, they weren't fit, and that's why they did it. Unfortunately, it's probably an administrative burden, but it's been done fourthly to prevent the company from operating on the market for less than a year, then it's gone. And actually, the fact that we would evaluate that it didn't meet the emission limits, but unfortunately, that's all we can do about it. So this second amendment addresses precisely the fact that it does not happen that the companies will not meet us quite effectively, and then actually the other companies will pay for it, regardless of the fact that we will all be paying for it. That is how the second amendment corrects this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u79	Thank you. Mr. Ferjenčík, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u80	Thank you for the floor. I would like, I hope, by the conclusion of this debate, to quote from the Bible of the YES movement what I dream about when I accidentally sleep, the vision of the Czech Republic for the year 2035, which says in the chapter Energy: We will be energy-sufficient absolutely and it will be pure energy. Our energy dependence on coal, oil, and once on natural gas will end. I'm surprised that the moment we propose that coal power plants either comply with the limits or end up, and that over a period of seven years, it's not a leap measure, so you're against it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u81	In fact, Mr Schiller and then Mrs Fialová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u82	Thank you, Mr President. I'm afraid I have to. This Bible, as you say, is presented to us several times. But all you ever do is pull out a piece of the text, and you think you're gonna impress or intimidate everyone. It also says: Let us heat with coal and also with fuel oils completely cancel. [[correct: heating]] In 2035 it will be an exception and most cities and municipalities in their territory will completely ban how they did it in Krakow. [[ho]] The energy of the future is electricity and natural gas. - As you can see, even the energy concept counts on 2040, the President took the liberty of cutting back five years, so 2035. That's one thing. So that's the only way we're gonna get it. And every time it comes down to that, you pull out this book and you really start saying things like that. Now, I'm gonna make a fuss, but I'm just gonna come back. Where was your ecological heart when I was trying to keep us from releasing real poison into the waters? And you all voted against. And you don't need data there, you just need to know the basic chemical equations. You didn't need anything but what you let in, what comes out. That's all you need. You weren't there as environmentalists all of a sudden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u83	Mrs. Fialová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u84	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to react anymore, but I have to. We've been told what kind of Bible we have here. And I'll support a colleague here. It really isn't fair to rip a few sentences out of the whole chapter, my colleague. And so did Mr - environmental activists - Mr Rovenský of the Greenpeace movement on the Committee of the Environment, just pointing it out, even at the seminar. And it's not fair. As far as the response to Mr Peksa through the President is concerned, I am very pleased that you have read my CV. Thank you. And if you study it even better, you'll find that I have a degree in environmental education. And there's a huge difference between a trained environmentalist and an environmental activist.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u85	Mrs Balcarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, I would like to address Mr Schiller's comment on his amendment to the Water Protection Act or the Water Law, where he tabled an amendment on the discharge of waste water and its subsequent treatment in sewage treatment plants. The amendment was so bad, it didn't pass here in plenary. And that's something to say these days that something isn't going through with the ANO movement. So the amendment was so bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u87	Thank you, too. This was the last application in the debate. I'll read the apology. Madam Secretary of Defense has been apologizing since 11:00 for business reasons. So if there are no more applications for the debate, then I am done with the debate. Let me ask you about the final words. The Minister, then the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u88	Thank you, Mr President. It's going to be short because everything has been said here, in some cases four times, so I'm not going to make any more comments about it. I would like to assure everyone that we do not support the proposal, including the amendments that have passed and will be presented to the Committee on the Environment, and, on the contrary, we do not recommend those others that have not been recommended by the Committee on the Environment. To the biggest debate that has been about large-source BATs, I want to say that it is true, of course, that every percentage of pollution that we reduce is good. But we must always say and really do not mix, as colleague Schiller said, pears with apples, so we cannot mix emissions with Imise, we cannot mix health impacts really with some theoretical emissions. And we always need to consider what we're going to get. So I am convinced that the Committee on the Environment, as it gave its recommendations to the amendments, so it is okay, it is balanced and this is also in line with the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u89	Thank you. The rapporteur, if she wishes to speak with the final word? So the rapporteur asks whether it would be possible to reopen the debate. In that case, I'm gonna ask some of the ministers to tell us something...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u90	Please be brief.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u91	Thank you. The debate is reopened and I am asking the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u92	Hello. It is my duty in the general debate to read legislative technical amendments concerning the effectiveness of the law, because we will not be able to do it on 1 July 2018, and legislative technical adaptations are: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In point 5, the word "third' is 2. In Article 34 (2) (b), the following paragraph is added: Article 4 (1) (a) (d) number 5 is replaced by number 4. 3. In Amendment A2, point 16, point (g) is inserted and paragraph 41 (g) is added. 16. (?) Article 2 (1) (a) III The effectiveness shall be: This law shall take effect on the first day of the calendar month following the date of its publication. For the sake of completeness, I will add a brief statement of reasons. Point 1 corrects the numerical designation of the sentence concerned, point 2 complements the internal reference, point 3 complements the reference to the transitional provision and point 4 regulates the effectiveness already mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u93	I'll ask for more applications for the debate. If they're not, I'm done again. Let me ask you about the final words. I suppose there's no room or will anymore. Well, in that case, we'll vote. I ask the rapporteur to take the floor and guide us through the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u94	The Committee on the Environment of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a guarantee committee discussed the draft law on 25 April 2018 at its 8th meeting and adopted a resolution that is available to us under the House press 13/8, and the guarantee committee agreed on the following procedure. First of all, we will vote on the proposal for legislative technical amendments under Section 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which I presented in the general debate 3 reading. We will also vote on proposals A1 through A17 together with one vote. Thirdly, proposals C1 and C2, amendments to proposal A2, together with one vote. Fourthly, design B. Fifth proposal D, proposal E1, proposal 7, E2 and E3 together with one vote. And in the eighth time, we will vote on the bill as a whole. During the vote, I shall briefly state who is the author of the amendment on which it relates and shall also give the opinion of the guarantee club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u95	Thank you. I'm gonna ask if anyone wants to go to the procedure. If not, I'll vote on the proposed procedure. Who's in? Who's against it? It is vote number 27, registered 186, for 177, against no one, this proposal has been accepted. So please proceed with the approved procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u96	Firstly, we will vote on the proposal for legislative technical amendments under Section 95 para. The Rules of Procedure, which I would like to read once more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u97	I don't think that's necessary. They did.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u98	That's what we're talking about. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u99	Thank you. Will I ask the Minister for an opinion on this proposal? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It is vote 28, registered 186, for 161, against 14, this proposal has been adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u100	The next vote is points A1 to A17. And I would like to introduce to you which amendments are concerned and who made them. They have been agreed by the Committee on the Environment. Five times my person's amendment, Eva Fialová, concerning the control of boilers, the maximum price for checking the transposition of Directive 2016/2284 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the adjustment of the position of municipalities and regions in the implementation of air quality improvement programmes. Increase the CO emission limit value for radiant combustion stationary sources from 12 thousand to 15 thousand mg per cubic meter and the possibility for municipalities to ban the combustion of not only brown coal but also other types of solid fuels in boilers of category 1 and 2. The other three amendments by Mr Jan Schiller on biofuels, the merger of entities for the purpose of the joint implementation of emission limits, biofuels imported from abroad are counted against emission limits, with reference to a minimumization of the risk of leaving the obligation to comply with emission limits, do not apply in order for companies to be controlled quarterly, not annually. And one amendment by Mr zahradník suggests that the obligation to use heat from the thermal energy supply system should not apply to new constructions of family houses. That's all. And the recommendation of the guarantee committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u101	Thank you. I beg the Minister's opinion. [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It is vote 29, registered 186, for 140, against 39, this proposal has been adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u102	Another was proposed to vote on amendments C1 and C2, where I am the petitioner, concerning the amendment to point A2 of the resolution of the Committee on the Environment, where the maximum price for checking boilers is set. Following the notification of the Ministry of Finance in accordance with the Price Act, the word "price" is changed after the word "reference financial limit." The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u103	Mr. Secretary, please. [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It is a 30 vote, registered 187, for 158, against no one, this proposal has been adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u104	The next vote is on Amendment B, where the agricultural committee, namely Mr Kováčik, is the promoter, introduces the so-called 'B'. the prevention of over-selling of emission allowances from abroad. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u105	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It is voting 31, registered 187, for 176, against 1, the proposal was adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u106	It is also a proposal by D paní Dana Balcarová, which excludes the granting of exemptions from statutory air pollution limits for large combustion stationary sources, rated electricity output of 300 MW and higher. The recommendation of the Committee shall be non-advisable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u107	So the committee doesn't recommend it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u108	The Committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u109	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's a 32 vote, 187, for 46, against 129, the proposal was not accepted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u110	The next is the vote on the amendment E1 by Mr Jan Zahradník. The draft law defines electricity for transport purposes only as electricity used for the propulsion of road vehicles. Electricity is also used as a source for the propulsion of special vehicles, railway vehicles, vessels, including vessels used for recreation. The amendment proposes extending the definition. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u111	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It is vote 33, registered 187, for 40, against 123, the proposal was not accepted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u112	Another amendment is the E2 and E3 of Mr Jan Zahradník, who proposes that the owner or user of the space in which the stationary source is operated should be informed in writing before carrying out the check on the intention to carry out it and that the check must be carried out in accordance with it. The opinion is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u113	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 34, registered 187, for 54, against 101. The motion was not accepted. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u114	Finally, we will vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-001-070.u115	Yes. First of all, I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 201/2012 Coll., on Air Protection, as amended, pursuant to House press 13, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'll ask the Minister's opinion. [[Very agreeable!]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 35, registered 187, for 104, against 4. This proposal has been adopted and I note that we have agreed to the bill. [[Applause in the left side of the hall.]] I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Let's continue with the point.
