ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u1	10. Proposal by Members of Vít Kaňkovský and Patrik Nacher to issue a law amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended /house print 22/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 At the outset, I will point out that it has been proposed that we give our consent to the draft law at first reading. The Government's position was delivered as House Press 22/1. I would like to ask Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, to present the proposal. Please, Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u2	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Allow me to introduce to you at first reading the draft amendment to Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labor Code, as amended, which I submit together with my colleague Patrik Nacher on the initiative and in cooperation with the National Council of Persons with Disabilities. The proposal addresses only one issue and this is an unsatisfactory legal situation in determining compensation for loss of earnings for some victims of accidents at work or occupational disease. The compensation for loss of earnings is determined in accordance with the law in force as the difference between the average earnings before and after the accident at work or after the recognition of occupational disease, to which the invalidity pension may be added if provided for the same reason. The problem arises in cases where the injured person also terminates his/her employment while part of his/her professional capacity is preserved in the case of the injured person, i.e. he/she is not fully disabled. In such a case, the person injured will become a candidate for employment at the employment office. And most often in this period, there is a calculation of the compensation for loss of earnings, but this is missing for the calculation of post-traumatic income. In such cases, the law in force is provided for by the so-called law. Fictitious post-traumatic earnings, which have a minimum wage. In practice, however, this means that each valuation of the minimum wage will result in a decrease in the real amount of compensation for loss of earnings. In other words, any increase in the minimum wage means for these damaged reductions paid to them by the rents. It is understandable that this illogical condition is rightly considered to be harmful to people already injured by an accident at work or an occupational disease. I dare even say that the state treats them in such cases more than a stepmother. At the current trend of repeated valorisation of the minimum wage, which is likely to continue in good economic condition of the Czech Republic, some damaged people have been reduced more times for loss of earnings, which we consider discriminatory and unfair. For this reason, we are presenting a proposal aimed at fixing so-called. fictitious post-mortem earnings of minimum wage valid on the date of inclusion of the injured person in the employment applicant's register. This will ensure that there will be no reduction in the real amount of the rent granted to the already mentioned group of persons during the valuations of the minimum wage. Originally we proposed to discuss this bill in the regime § 90 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, when it was our ambition for the amendment to take effect as soon as possible. This has also been adapted to the wording of the transitional provisions. However, given that the new government was not established until mid-December 2017, it could not have been implemented. It is therefore necessary to adapt the transitional provisions, for which discussion in the standard legislative regime is necessary. I am aware at the moment that this request will be met by the veto of some members' clubs for discussion in accordance with § 90 para. 2. As far as the Government's negative position is concerned, in the first point, the Government is reporting on the substantive intention of the proposed amendment and considers its objective to be correct. Point 2 contains the already mentioned risk of unacceptable true retroactivity given by the transitional provisions. We respect this criticism, as I have already mentioned, and it can be easily eliminated in the framework of committee discussions or at second reading. As far as the other part of the government's position in point 2 is concerned, I do not share the opinion of the government as a petitioner. It is not true that compensation for loss of earnings is granted without a contractual basis. Employers must be legally insured for these purposes and the insurance policy between these parties, i.e. the employer and the insurance company, is entered into by contract. If then there is compensation between the employer and the employer respectively. This does not automatically mean that the contract must be in writing and must be signed by both parties. A large number of agreements and agreements, in which the law is not obligatory in written form, are concluded orally or consistently between the parties. However, in practice, it is certainly not usual for compensation for loss of earnings to be paid without any consent from both parties and without establishing a legal basis for payment. As regards point 3 of the Government's position, I would like to stress that it was not the ambition of the petitioners to address the rents of members of the security forces and of the professional soldiers, although we admit that even these groups of employees would certainly deserve this. However, the remuneration of these civil servants is not regulated by the Labour Code, but is dealt with by Law No. 361/2003 Coll., on the Service of Security Corps Members, as amended, and Act No. 221/1999 Coll., on Occupational Soldiers, as amended. In order to speed up the negotiation and approval of the amendment to the Labour Code as quickly as possible, our proposal was limited to the solution of compensation for the majority group of employees, counting on a similar problem for members of the security forces and professional soldiers to be dealt with subsequently by the government. However, we are also prepared to address this task in committee discussions and to find an appropriate solution now. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we have prepared this simple amendment to eliminate discrimination against those groups of victims of occupational accidents or diseases. The partial lack of transitional provisions can simply be eliminated when discussing committees. And if the general ambition is to resolve the situation with security forces and professional soldiers, then the solution to this problem can also be found in the legislative process. [[14.20 hours]] So I would like to ask you, colleagues, to support this amendment and to refer it to the next legislative process, even though the Government's position has made a commitment that the government will urgently present its comprehensive amendment, which will address our raised problem. If this happens, and if the government amendment is approved in an accelerated regime, then the amendment will be outrun by us. Personally, I must say that I respect that. We should all be looking at an accelerated solution to this issue. At this point, however, the government amendment is not yet in the legislative process, which is why I consider it important that the amendment tabled by us progress to the next phase of the legislative process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u3	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. Allow me to read the apology of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš from today's meeting from 14:00 to the end of the negotiations for business reasons. I also report for the record that Mrs GajdůGajdůšková votes with the replacement card number 3. I am going to ask her, as rapporteur, to take up her role for the first reading. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u4	Thank you, Mr President, Dear Government, Honored House. I will not repeat what the petitioner has already said, but let me briefly summarize what is actually going on in the proposal. The draft amendment addresses the minimum wage in the field of compensation for accidents at work and occupational diseases. It proposes a minimum wage to be deducted from the compensation of an insurance undertaking, an accident at work or an occupational disease at the current rate in force when the employee registers at the employment office. In this case, a lower minimum wage is more favourable for employees, as the minimum wage is reduced by the rent paid. The problem with accidents at work or occupational diseases is quite large in itself, and I, as rapporteur, welcome very much this bill, which will only ease a little bit of people affected. The government gave a negative opinion on this bill because of the retroactivity and incompleteness of the proposal. I am convinced that this can possibly be corrected at the second reading, as the petitioner has said. I recommend to the House that we approve the proposal at first reading and proceed to committee discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u5	Thank you. Mr. Bartošek, then President Chvojka, applied with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the basis of the agreement with the petitioner and in agreement with TOP 09, we raise the veto on § 90 and ask that this bill be properly discussed in three readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u7	Thank you. President Chvojka, then Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, although it no longer has any relevance, I was signed up for the veto for two MPs, the CSSD and the KSČM club to discuss this law in an accelerated procedure. We also ask for referral to committees and committee discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u9	To add that, I say that before the beginning of the meeting, I received a written request from the Chairman of the ANO 2011 movement club with opposition, but on behalf of the group of more than 50 Members. By checking, I have found that 58 Members have signed, so the objection is relevant, so there is a rare consensus so that we do not proceed in accordance with § 90 para. 2. Now with priority rights, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u10	Hello, Mr President, Madam Secretary, Ministers, Members of Parliament. Allow me to comment on the proposal by Mr Vít Kaňkovský and Mr Patrik Nacher, which deals with the refinement of the calculation of compensation for loss of earnings after termination of employment incapacity for employees who have suffered damage as a result of an occupational accident or illness, loss of earnings under the Labour Code. The submitted parliamentary proposal shall contain a procedure whereby the House should give its consent at first reading. However, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, the body that is the gesture of this legislation, I had fundamental reservations about the parliamentary proposal, which I gave to the Government in my opinion, and it was in agreement with that. For the reasons set out above, I cannot therefore support this parliamentary proposal. To address the issue, the government has therefore decided to quickly prepare and submit to the Chamber of Deputies its own bill, which will address the situation in such a way as to make it clear from the legislation that the minimum wage applicable on the day of inclusion in the register of job seekers will be taken into account for the calculation of the compensation for the loss of earnings on the applicant's job, and should therefore not take into account the situation for one group of damaged job seekers to increase the minimum wage to reduce the compensation granted for the loss of earnings on each occasion. Moreover, the law that the government intends to submit should address the issue comprehensively for professional soldiers and security forces. The proposal is currently in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and it should reach the Chamber of Deputies by 27 February this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u11	Thank you, Madam Secretary. So I am now finally opening up a general debate. Mr Ivan Adamec reports with a point of fact. I'll give you the space, she spoke before the debate, but I don't think we're going to break the Rules of Procedure in a fundamental way. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're self-conscious. I would just like to respond a little bit here to the way in which the first law is presented to the Chamber of Deputies, the Labour Code. I would say that this is a very courageous achievement when I think of the last term when we were here trying to push through the legislative process of the amendment to the Labour Code, what was there of amendments. And in the end, it ended with a stalemate when the bill was never adopted. I, of course, agree with the substantive intention, because it is a good thing, but if we discuss it in committees, it cannot be prevented from changing into something completely different. I warn against it, and I mean, I don't think it's happy. The labor code is definitely a sensitive material. I'm very curious to see what comes out of committee after second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So we will now continue the debate on this point. Mrs Adamová Pekarová is the first to be logged in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the Labour Code - I must support the previous speaker in this little bit - is always delicate because it is a really tempting material. We dealt with him for several years last term, and we didn't actually deal with him. Maybe that's a good thing. So I was one of those who was glad that it didn't pass in the wording that was planned here. I must say that we are dealing with a minor change here, a total of only nine words, including prepositions, in the bill proposal, that I think that if we all try to be moderate in the next debate, we will not be trying to completely change what is meant to be improved by this amendment, so we could very quickly come to a conclusion. I'm here to support the petitioners themselves. I think that this is a change that is needed, sensible, really beneficial to people who are already going through a difficult life situation, whether because of some kind of injury or illness. However, there is only one small thing that needs to be changed, and I am glad that the proposal will not be discussed in 90 immediately at first reading, because that is what I think we should pay attention to when discussing second reading and in committee. It is a question of certain, say, discrimination against those... or inequality against those who have some serious injury, but still try and stay active in the labour market, want to keep busy, virtually. continue to work, although their conditions are more complex at a given moment, but after some time evaluates their personal situation so that it really is too difficult for them to work for, and at that moment they decide to really use this provision right here. [[14.30 hours]] Then these people here should actually calculate the compensation from the minimum wage that was valid at the time of their event, virtually. In fact, it is to some extent disadvantageous for them. I think that's something we should probably be aware of. We should not, therefore, insist strictly on this text, drive those people to the fact that they will not even try to stay on the labour market, I think it is a shame for them and for the state, and therefore try to make this little thing even in the amendment so that it may be possible. To the Minister, I would like to make a comment on what she mentioned here. It was a very common practice in the last parliamentary term, and I think that not only in the previous, but also in the previous, that if the Ministry had agreed with a Member or a petitioner, it was possible to submit a parliamentary amendment which had been prepared by the Ministry before. The Ministry simply agreed on its wording. And there he can certainly apply his comments. I believe that there will be no problem with one of us signing up to such an amendment and identifying ourselves with it, thereby simplifying the situation, speeding up negotiations. Or we're going to have to wait for the whole circle to start over, because it's very uncertain when the law will even be discussed. That is why I think that we could, I believe that even the petitioner is willing, the petitioners, so that I do not deny Mr Nacher, the petitioners will certainly be willing to participate in this amendment, to cooperate, and then we would certainly be able to agree on it. I don't think there's gonna be much resistance to a law change like that. I don't suppose there's any other complications. That's why I think and support it so that we can put the law into the next reading, not reject it now, if you're planning to propose it, but really focus on how the Ministry can help us with it. As for the concerns about other issues that some of us might have the desire to address when the Labour Code opens up, I also think that we could do so, even though it is, of course, everyone's right to submit any amendment subsequently, so agree not to abuse this standard to open up any further issues in the Labour Code. She is a standard that certainly needs fundamental changes, she needs to adapt, let's say, to what is being dealt with on the labour market today and in what way, because really the time since the code works has changed significantly. But I don't think it's exactly a parliamentary amendment that has ambition and that should even be the one to deal with it. So thank you for your attention and once again - TOP 09 supports the intention, but warns against a certain little thing that needs to be taken into account there, so that for some we do no more harm than good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u15	Thank you. I have here a factual remark from President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u16	Thank you for the floor. Firstly, I would like to say that the citizens' democrats will support the release of this press to second reading, and I come up with a gentleman's offer to other MPs: Let us put possible amendments only on this issue. Because, of course, we still have dozens of excellent amendments in our drawer, which we have applied in the last parliamentary term, which lead to greater contractual freedom and flexibility in the labour market, but we are prepared not to submit this offer if all the MPs use it. If not, it either applies to everyone or to no one. If anyone doesn't hold on, I say we're gonna hand over the dozens of amendments that are really good. But since we would not like to do this to the proponents of this bill and little that is such a politically explosive subject as the Labour Code, that is why I come up with this gentleman's offer to other MPs. And to the secretary. That is what I said in the last parliamentary term that there are such beautiful words that the government understands motives and intentions, but prepares a better, more comprehensive, more elaborate proposal, etc. We used it when we were in the government or in opposition benches, and then it was very much used in the last parliamentary term. So for the Minister, I just want to remind her that her government didn't gain confidence. And to say here what this government will present at the end of February is quite bold. Well, I suggest we don't care about the government's negative position. If there's a material problem, we'll remove it during second reading. We will support this in the third reading, and let us keep the political struggle for the form of the Labour Code to another House press, which will also deal with the Labour Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Now, with a proper application to the debate, Mrs Richterová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u18	Great! Step! [[During this parliamentary term, the scale was added to the speaker's desk for speakers of minor growth.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say to the pirát that, of course, we support the substantive intention. And we would also like to stress that this is very important for us, that it will normally be discussed in the committees, and that we will normally be able to fix it a little, as needs to be done, as has already been said here. Such a simple statement for the Pirates.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u19	Thank you, Madame. Now, with a proper application for discussion, Mr Nacher. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u20	[[The MP also stepped on the step, which was rewarded with applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I'm probably the first MP to get applause without saying anything. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I would like to sign up for this proposal and explain the motivation in one sentence, because my previous speakers, especially my colleague Kaňkovský, have said everything here. The proposal is made, in short, for those who do not deal with it, because at the moment when the person who does not have a job is working with the fiction of minimum wage. With fiction, minimum wage. The moment the minimum wage goes up, of course, the difference goes down, and so the rent goes down. It's nothing else. That's why it has the seven words, the change. It is nothing more than that the minimum wage is fixed at the moment when the person becomes a candidate for employment. So much for explaining it very briefly. Otherwise, an explanation of why we originally suggested it in the '90s. First of all, because we did it in November. We thought we could make it. And the second was the reason that a colleague here told me, who is more experienced, I am a rookie here - precisely because, unfortunately, it is a labour code. This means that the moment it passes through a classic second and third reading, all of a sudden, the seven words that are supposed to help good things, suddenly it becomes a whole bunch of other stimuli. And maybe even this would fall out. That is why I welcome the Minister's initiative to take it. And as my colleague Kaňkovský said, I think in the process of going through classic second and third reading, he'll catch up with us, and the government proposal will be enriched by the things we didn't do there. So I thank you for supporting both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u21	Thank you. Now with the application for a debate, Mrs Aulická, then Mr Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must say, fellow Members, as my previous speakers have been told here, that opening the Labour Code in general may take great courage. But I must say that this proposed amendment, which has been tabled by my fellow Members, is welcome for the KSČM. Unfortunately, it's not that sophisticated and settled. Some areas. But, as the Minister has already said, it has been promised and I have information, or I think you already have most of the information that it is already prepared in the legislative form, and it could arrive at the next meeting for discussion. That is, of course, why we want this proposal, which is being tabled today and we are discussing it to pass at first reading, and we will continue to expect the proposal that is to come from the government, and, of course, we will support the negotiations as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u23	Thank you, Madame. Now with the application for debate, Mr Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u24	Mr President, colleagues, the topic of those so-called renters, that is, those who receive compensation for loss of earnings, was the topic that we have dealt with in the last parliamentary term. We have about 4,000. disabled miners who cannot carry out their work on the grounds that they have either suffered an accident at work or have been threatened by an occupational disease. I am glad that it was agreed here across the spectrum that we will put it into committees, because this issue is not only a question of minimum wage, but on the issue of these people who receive compensation for loss of earnings, and it is most prominently reflected in 4,000. The miners, first of all, is what the proposal is about, and I'm going to document it on the miners. When he is removed from the mine from work accident or from the risk of lung dusting, he will take up the employment office. And these people, especially 4,000. These miners, they have a very difficult time getting into the labour market. So he's at the Labor Office, where he gets his minimum wage. The past government, I mean, thank God, has increased the minimum wage from 8,000. 12,200 crowns today. That means the guy who can't get a job because he's been on the shaft for 20 years, his lungs are dusty, no one's gonna take it. He sits in quotes at the employment office and now he loses CZK 12 times CZK 4,200 thanks to the raising of minimum wages. And 50 grand. They're really gonna break the budget for these families every year. Question two. We discussed this topic in the last parliamentary term on the subcommittee, which, I believe, was named for employment and the employment office, where they were representatives of both the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and we were looking for solutions. The second problem I want to talk about right now is that when a decommissioned miner finds a job and loses it, they don't take down his minimum wage, but they take down his last earnings. He then gets into a dilemma, whether to go to work and risk losing his job or if he loses his job, he gets a higher wage. And then the third problem is that when these people are in the employment office, it doesn't count as retirement. He will complete, this man, a miner, age 65. This concludes the loss of earnings. Now he comes, he wants a pension: they say, unfortunately, Frant Novák, you don't get a pension because you haven't worked out the necessary years. It's definitely an important topic. For some, it's 4,000. Not enough miners. But I think 4,000. The miners, at least for me, are really the group I came out of, so I'm definitely gonna fight for it. I would like to see a comprehensive amendment that the Ministry will process - I have been in contact with Deputy Minister Vaňásek, and I know that it has been working on - I do not want to include - I do not want to expand the Labour Code here, but I think that what I have told you, at least an assessment of the possibility of entering and re-entering the Labour Office should be discussed, the minimum wage level or, respectively, the haircut that would then be calculated. So I welcome the House's agreement to continue reading, and then, of course, I'm prepared to cooperate with our colleagues and with you on any wording or explanation of the terms and conditions that I was talking about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-001-010.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. Since there has been an objection from both several Members' Clubs and a group of Members, we will no longer continue in accordance with Section 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2. In the debate, neither the motion to reject nor the proposal to return the petitioner for completion, nor any proposal to shorten the deadline. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we'll decide on the Guarantee Committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. I'm asking, does anyone suggest another committee as a guarantee? I'm stressing. I don't see anyone, so we'll proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees that the proposal tabled be ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee. Who's against it? Voting order number 34. Registered 177, 156, no one. This proposal was adopted. I apologize a little to my colleagues for not using the gong before the vote, but there were enough of us. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? I don't see anyone checking in. This has made all the proposals, and I am ending this point. Thank you. I'm opening another point.
