ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-002-001.u1	1. The proposal of Members of Vojtěch Munzar, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura and others to issue a law amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended /German press 77/ - Second reading I prosit that the motion put forward by Mr Vojtěch Munzar on behalf of the appellant. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-002-001.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, may I repeat the basic question of our proposal, which I presented here in detail at first reading. Our proposal is simple. The aim is to return the reduced limits for applying expenditure flat rates to the level of CZK 2 million, even when submitting a tax return per year -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-002-001.u3	I'm sorry for a moment, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask all Members of Parliament to remain calm in the hall. Those who urgently need to discuss something, let them do so in the foyer. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-002-001.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I'll repeat that sentence to introduce our proposal, which is very simple and simple, but I think it's pretty crucial. Our proposal aims to return reduced limits for the application of spending flats for self-employed persons to the level of CZK 2 million, including when submitting a tax return for 2018. This means, in fact, there would be no reduction from CZK 2 million to CZK 1 million. This is also why we went the way of a separate bill and did not wait for a comprehensive amendment to the Income Tax Act. If we accept this proposal this year so that it can also apply this year, then in the finals it would not have changed for businessmen de facto. And it seems more reasonable to do it this way than not to have people first have to keep tax records, then they had to keep it for a year and then they didn't have to keep it again. The flat-rate expenditures are an option that small businessmen and entrepreneurs can take advantage of in their activities. In this case, it does not have to keep complete accounts, it is sufficient to record revenue, and therefore it is the easiest form of administration. At the same time, it is motivational, because the greatest administrative burden is the administration associated with paying taxes, which demotes especially young people from entering the business. On the contrary, our aim should be to reduce this administration to a minimum. The value of self-employed persons is in addition to the fact that they provide their services around them, so the value is that they are not a burden on our financial and social systems and employ themselves. From today's point of view at the economic boom, this may seem irrelevant, but when the economic recession comes, and it comes one day, we will be happy for everyone who earns their own money and does not rely on the state and the social system of the state. For the state, we believe that this is also beneficial, because in the system of flat-rate spending, the state will collect its health and social insurance, and for entrepreneurs between the limit just one million and two million crowns, it will always levy a positive tax. At the same time, the system of flat-rate spending does not force tax optimizations as a system where you have to keep accounting, you have to keep tax records, and of course every entrepreneur who is forced to do so will try to make the costs as high as possible. The self-employed person in our country is almost one million. And the biggest problem of small business is the administration and the instability of the environment. By reducing the limit of our proposal, we can help these entrepreneurs not to have to be accountants overnight and their most important means of production, that is, their time, to devote to the development of their business and not to the tax administration. The impact on the budget is really minimal, less than one tenth of a percent of the revenue from the state budget. The government estimated it to be CZK 1.2 billion. We have one billion in the materials, so here's more or less a match. The year-on-year increase in revenue from the budget is at some 60 billion. So, is this one billion really worth making the lives of many small entrepreneurs complicated? That's the question we're going to answer today and at third reading. In its opinion, the government says that the Ministry of Finance has to keep tax records of VAT documents from one million crowns anyway, so it doesn't matter. But it doesn't matter, because for a large number of small businessmen, the trader may be a VAT payer, but he can buy his services with VAT payers. In that case, expenditure does not need to be recorded in the system of flat-rate expenditures and does not register them for VAT. So by reducing from two million to one million crowns, the increase in administration and its time intensity are clearly occurring. Since this is not just our proposal, but this proposal is based on the opinion of professional associations, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Small Entrepreneurs and Traders, the Union of taxpayers and others, so I have a request for everyone to support this across the political spectrum. I would like to thank the Committee on Budgets, where, in addition to the representatives of the ANO movement, the Committee on Budgets supported and recommended this proposal. And I believe that, in the end, we agree with the YES movement, and I beg you for some generosity for businessmen. Let the tradesmen work quietly and let us not burden them with other administrative costs. And that leads to our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-002-001.u5	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints Nos 77/2 and 77/3. I will ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Jan Pošvář, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-002-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Budgets has discussed the proposal on 6 June 2018 and adopted a resolution which you will find as House Press No 77/3, which states that, after the opening words of the representative of the petitioners and the report and after the debate, the Committee on Budgets recommends the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to approve the proposal without comment. No amendments were recorded until then. It then empowers the rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, which has just happened. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-002-001.u7	So, thank you for the report and I am opening a general debate to which Mr Ferjenčík is the first to be entered at the moment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-002-001.u8	Thank you for the floor. We support this proposal as the pirát. And I wanted to add a few arguments to my colleague Munzar why it makes sense to accept it. There are already entrepreneurs who have incomes of more than CZK 1 million who are not VAT payers, for example if they have income from abroad and with transferred tax obligations or rental income. There are more exceptions. So there are relatively small but important groups of citizens who would use the law purely to facilitate administration, and it is not just a question of the amount of taxes paid. Furthermore, of course, there is an argument where entrepreneurs have to pay VAT, but they will not have to register their payments to VAT payers if this law is adopted, which is also an important group of their bureaucracy, if they are to sub-contract to other businessmen, then they will not have to burden themselves with it. And thirdly, for me, the most important argument is that there is a very lively debate at EU level at this point about increasing the VAT limit in Europe-wide. That means that we would be ready to raise the limit for the dépéháček, and the law would actually be like the vanguard of this solution. The limit will, hopefully, rise. It has logic, because the smallest entrepreneurs really burden it, and in that case this law will be much more useful if we can accept it, and given that it will be discussed in Europe in September or October, it makes sense for us to approve it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-002-001.u9	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate on this point. Unless... [[The Treasury Secretary is reporting for the floor.]] Yes, Madam Secretary, of course you can. I don't know how I missed you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-002-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to comment on Mr Munzar's proposal. This is a proposal to increase the limit for applying expenditure by percentage of revenue to the level before the 2017 package, which means increasing marginal income from one million to two million. I would just like to explain, for you, who, for example, are not concerned with this issue. [[14.40 hours]] So we in the Czech Republic have the opportunity to apply expenditure to the self-employed people in a double way. The first is the percentage of revenue, which is now the topic we're going to talk about, and the second is real expenditure. By a percentage of revenue, this means that we have three rates, we have 40 percent, 60 % and 80 percent, these are actually the largest spending flats that even exist within the European Union, almost nobody uses it. And the ceiling was originally two million, actually up to a total of two million, and it was now accepted from last year to the sum of one million crowns. And the proposal of the Members is going to put it back on the ceiling of two million. And it's still the choice of the taxpayer, whether they choose actual expenses or so-called. expenditure flat-rates. Basically, the reason why the ceiling went down to one million, and I remember that, because I was already Deputy Minister of Finance at the time, was simple: because she wanted to return to these so-called. On the other hand, it was possible to apply a discount on the wife and children, which they could not actually at the time, to search for the optimal and fiscally safest form, which is why this combination was chosen. [[apply]] At the same time, the ceiling fell to CZK 1 million. For a period of one year, we left taxpayers the option of choice, i.e. they could decide whether to apply a flat-rate ceiling of up to two million without the possibility of applying a discount on the wife and children, or whether to apply a ceiling of one million with the possibility of applying a discount on the wife and children. For the sake of interest, I have a whole range of processed examples, i.e. at the time when we were adopting the adjustment, we worked out where the new method was more advantageous by some income of some 1,800,000, i.e. application of the discount, and consequently after using the ceiling up to a million crowns. The negative impact of this proposal on public budgets is 1.2 billion on personal income tax, i.e. on the state budget, and on municipal and regional budgets of 0.3 billion. This, of course, is clearly an opinion that I must take into account. Mr. Governor is looking at me, I'm sure he understands me. The reason why flat-rate spending was once introduced was to reduce and simplify the administration to small entrepreneurs associated with business. Yes, it really simplifies the administration if expenditure flats are applied, but then it makes sense with a limit of up to CZK 1 million, because it is the decisive limit for compulsory VAT payers, i.e. that if someone actually has income of up to CZK million, then it becomes a mandatory VAT payer, and thus de facto this criterion falls, because he still has certain obligations under the VAT Act to keep records for VAT purposes and therefore have prepared adequate administrative background. I will no longer be discussing the genesis of development here, and I would rather respond to the arguments raised during the negotiations in the Chamber of Deputies and subsequently in the Committee on Budgets. There was an argument that the reduction in the limit was actually related to the need to keep accounts. This, of course, is not related, because a taxpayer who spends a percentage of income on actual expenses, so he keeps, even a self-employed person, only tax records, and when spending flats is applied, it is necessary to keep records of income and claims. The obligation to keep accounts is governed by the Accounting Act independently and therefore has no effect on this in any way and he only has that obligation. Another reason was, and I have already explained that we have actually followed the same threshold for VAT. Another argument that was raised: the impossibility of applying expenditure flat rates after the reduction of the limit. So, of course, I don't understand this argument at all. It is therefore not justified to argue that a group of taxpayers who can apply a new form of flat-rate expenditure will expand in order to apply flat-rate expenditure. I would like to point out here that the application of flat-rate expenditure is a right, not a taxpayer's obligation, i.e. that the taxpayer, who has income above CZK 1 million, can also use the option and use that right, i.e. that the limit of CZK 1 million was applied in the context of VAT obligations, but is not only directed to VAT payers. If that were the case, such a condition would be proposed directly, and such a condition is not laid down. Now I'm gonna take a few numbers. Just for the record. The total number of self-employed persons in 2016 was 995 670, the number of self-employed persons with income up to CZK 1 million was 837 605, so that over one million crowns of income this is related to the number of self-employed persons 158 065, so that more than 84 percent of the CFI did not touch the subsequent reduction of the expenditure flats ceiling to one million. There's one more thing I'd like to poke out. I had the Financial Administration process my NACE overview, i.e. according actually to the field of activity of self-employed persons who apply these spending flats the most which professions. And I can give them to you. Among the professions that most apply spending flats are legal and accounting activities, advertising and market research, creative artistic and entertainment activities, education, sports entertainment activities, business management activities, management consultancy, information technology activities. So from this point of view, I don't see craftsmanship. To increase the VAT retention limit. Yes, within the European Union, the European Commission has actually presented a proposal for a definitive VAT regime and related matters, and one of them is a discussion of an increase in the mandatory VAT registration limit. The debate started roughly... I was Deputy Minister and I was directly involved in the opening of these discussions, it was sometimes at the turn of November and December 2017. The debate is ongoing, but I regularly take part in debates in the European Union, a debate which, of course, will certainly take several years. I was talking about the budgetary impact of the proposed change. And I would certainly like to disagree with the fact that the Ministry of Finance, it was said in some of the discussions, not today, that it focuses only on small businessmen. No way, today on the agenda of this meeting, and we'll see if it gets there, when it starts to be discussed, is a tax package where one of the very important directives is implemented, so-called. ATAD, which is currently struggling with aggressive tax business, and we have implemented a number of such directives and we are taking other concrete measures. In conclusion, I would like to make one small comment. Payers with a flat-rate expense, the argument has been made, always paying the tax. It's not like that. This is not the case, and in a perfectly legal way, I emphasise in a legal way, thanks to a large and robust system of deduction from the tax base and tax reductions in a number of cases, the taxpayers applying the flat-rates will not pay any tax. And that's not criticism, that's basically a statement of a legal way. Let me give you an example. The Crafts Revenue Charger reaches annual revenues up to 828 thousand, that is 69 thousand per month, so thanks to the current flat-rate expenditure of 80 percent and due to the basic tax discount on the taxpayer, which is 24 840, does not pay any personal income tax at a tax rate of 15 per cent. I have a simple calculation here because the basic discount, etc. is deducted, or tax zero. This was just a simple example that it really is not, and it depends on how much it can apply tax discounts. So for all the reasons I have now stated, I simply do not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-002-001.u11	Thank you. Mr Munzar is reporting for the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-002-001.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, let me respond to some of the things the Minister has said here. Yes, it is indeed an option, the businessman can choose. On the other hand, putting businessmen here that are not affected by our proposal into one million crowns as an example of why it should not be increased does not seem entirely fair to me. I have made it clear here that for businessmen between one and two million crowns, who have income between one and two million crowns, they will always pay the tax in the system of tax spending flats. I think 158,000 people, if I picked up the number correctly from the secretary, it's not an irrelevant set of people. And if we're talking about it, and this is what the government has in its opinion that it's advantageous for industry and businessmen with higher added value, shouldn't we be supporting high-value businessmen in our Republic? Or do we have to force them to take the opportunity to decide whether they want to keep tax records or take away the possibility of applying a flat-rate tax? On the contrary, we want to open this. We want them to be able to take advantage of the possibility of tax spending flats so that they can use their time, which is really the most important means of production, to develop their business and not have to deal with the tax administration. For your information, the administrative burden associated with paying taxes to the Czech Republic is calculated to total CZK 78 billion. I may understand the Minister of Finance who wants to fight for every crown. But I would understand more if the state's income were declining in a time of economic crisis. But we are in a situation where the revenue of the state is increasing by CZK 60 billion between 2017, 2018 according to the draft state budget that we have discussed here. And really, the one-sixtyth increase in revenue, the less than one-tenth of the state budget revenue is worth it, and is it worth it to the Treasury to fight for the proposal, for the reduction that wasn't even here by the Ministry of Finance's proposal, but was it given here in the last parliamentary term by a parliamentary initiative without analysis, without socio-economic analysis and without proper RIA? I would ask you for the very tradesmen to let them live in peace, to let them work quietly and to reduce the administrative burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-002-001.u13	Thank you. Let me read you a few apologies. Apologies to Mr Jan Richter 26. 6. between 18 and 20 hours for medical reasons. Mr Dominik Feri apologizes between 18.30 and 19.00 for reasons of work. Mr Jiří Běhounek apologizes from 15.30 to 18.00 for reasons of work. Mr Lubomír Zaorálek apologizes, from 26 to 29. 6. due to foreign travel. Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes from today's meeting from 14:00 to 15:00. Mr Milan Pour apologizes from 18.30 to the end of the negotiations for working reasons. The Prime Minister apologizes from 15 a.m. to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mrs Monika Jarošová has been apologizing since 16 o'clock for health reasons. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking for any final words. It's not like that. There was no motion to return. I therefore launch a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Jan Volný is reporting in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-002-001.u14	Hello, Mr President, colleagues. I would like to ask the honourable House to read our request to vote in the third reading on the rejection of this parliamentary proposal in the third reading. That's the reason. We have heard from the Minister that this return to the original figures, that is, my colleague through the President, we are currently not taking anything from anyone, we just want to return from a million to two million that amount, but we are not talking about the fact that, as it decreased from two million to a million, the deduction to children and a wife, which was also hugely positive for our entrepreneurs. And really, let's not confuse the public by bullying small businessmen. We have heard from the Minister that this concerns, above all, entrepreneurs who are not small businessmen. Personally, I haven't heard, and I've been walking, driving, discussing that some small businessman after 2016, when we approved the flat-rate reduction, had some problems with that. And last but not least, I just want to remind you that the flats, even though they are God-like, because they really, to a certain extent, reduce the administration, but it's an anomaly in Europe, and then when it was introduced, I remember well that there was talk about it being temporary before we could come up with something simpler to help these entrepreneurs. Let's think about the global possibility of reducing the administration for the smallest entrepreneurs, and let's not go back to what was set up a year ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-002-001.u15	Thank you. I ask who else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate on this point. I don't see anyone. I'm ending the debate in detail. I have not noted the proposals to return the guarantee committee to renegotiate, to shorten the deadline for third reading, or to propose that the guarantee committee do not address the proposal. So we've exhausted everything about this point, and I'm ending the second reading. Thank you. I'm opening another point.
