ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 5th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. I ask you to settle down in your seats so that we can continue this meeting with dignity. I'll give you a moment to settle down. With the replacement card number 1 will be voted by colleague Nacher. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a draft agenda for the 5th meeting on Thursday, 4 January 2018, so that the government pursuant to Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 Constitution of the Czech Republic and § 82 para. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies could have asked for a vote of confidence. The invitation was given to you through the parliamentary clubs on the same day. Now I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards and, if necessary, tell me who else is asking for a replacement card. The first step will be to identify two verifiers for this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Does anyone else have a suggestion on this? Although there is still noise and movement in the hall, I see no other suggestion. For this reason, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a proposed verifier. Who's against it? Voting number 1, registered 164, for 162, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have appointed members of Stanislav Berkovec and Miroslav Kalousek as verifiers of the 5th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. At this point, I say that before the opening of the meeting, Mrs Dana Balcarová asked for an apology for health reasons. With the replacement card number 3, Vice-President Jan Hamáček will vote. The vote has calmed us down a bit. We will therefore proceed to the establishment of the agenda of the 5th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. From today's grémia, I have no proposals for you to vote. I therefore ask the Members to comment on the proposal for a programme. At this point, I am registering an application with priority rights which has come to me in advance, and this is Mr Bartoš, President of the Pirate Party, to whom I hereby give the floor. Please, it's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u2	Good morning, everyone. Mr President, dear Government, honourable Members, I wanted to start with a change in the agenda for this meeting. We for the pirate club, and I subsequently verified this information with STAN, propose a pre-trial, as the first item of the meeting, a request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek. This is adjourned point 31 of the 2nd meeting. We simply believe that there is a fundamental difference in voting on trust or distrust of the government, whether at the moment this government is represented by the Chamber of Deputies, a prime minister who is criminally prosecuted or not. Historically, there was such consensus or rule that this vote took place only after the mandate and immune committee delivered its recommendation. Unfortunately, the mandate and immune committee has been kind of extending negotiations for over a month, and binding this vote on the decision of the mandate and immunity committee on how individual tasks are progressing, and voting on the trust of the government of Andrej Babiš today is simply not possible. If there is no other agreement here, I think it is not desirable to make this vote subject to the recommendation of the mandate and immunity committee at the moment. I therefore repeat once again, we propose that the pirát be placed before us as the first item of the meeting to discuss the request for consent by the Chamber of Deputies for the prosecution of Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u3	Thank you, too. In addition, Mrs Jana Levová's apology has not yet been read, which apologizes for today's conduct for personal reasons. Now, on the agenda, Mr Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join the proposal of the Pirates. As has been said, we have also announced in advance that there is no reason to delay this point and that we can vote on the issue. Just for your information, this point - for those who were not here in the previous Chamber of Deputies - has already been discussed by the House on September 6, 2017. The following steps were preceded: August 10, 2017 police delivered a request to the Chamber of Deputies for the extradition of both politicians, namely Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek. On 18 August, a mandate and an immune committee met. On 30 August 2017, the mandate and immunity committee recommended to the House to issue Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek for criminal prosecution, and on 6 September, after Andrej Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek agreed that they should be issued, the House voted for the extradition. Of the Members present with Mr Babiš, 123 Members out of 134 voted in favour of Mr Faltýnek 120 out of 133 Members. The House, which didn't work, managed to deal with this in 27 days. The House of Labor today has this request on its 50th day, and so far we're still at the beginning. Although the file is the same, even though there was additional clear evidence from OLAF, which, for anyone who had any doubts about whether it was a politically motivated prosecution, or if it was a simple criminal level, OLAF had already had to dispel the last doubt. Indeed, there is no reason for this to be dragged forward, and Members of Babiš and Faltýnek have been hiding from justice in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for voting on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. With the replacement card number 2, Mr Ondřej Profant will vote. And now with priority rights, President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u6	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, dear government. I don't want to comment on this talk from my colleague Farský. I'm sure we can get to this debate. I just want to technically read the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 30 November 2017 on the request for consent to criminal prosecution: The Chamber of Deputies interrupts this item and adjourns it until it is discussed by the mandate and immune committee. That's just technically so we know what the real reality is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. President Michálek, then President Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u8	Mr President, at the moment that YES and the SPD have a majority in the mandate and immune committee and postpones the ongoing negotiations of the mandate and immune committee until next week - the request came at the beginning of December, so if anyone wants to work here, they should start with the mandate and immune committee. Since the beginning of December, he has been able to comment on the extradition request, and we do not yet have his position. I refuse to extend the vote on extradition indefinitely, and I therefore agree with the proposal made by President Ivan Bartoš here that we should start dealing with this at today's meeting and set firm deadlines, otherwise the vote of the mandate and immunity committee will be delayed further by means of obstructions. That is why we want the Chamber of Deputies to deal with this today, because it has to be resolved before the vote on government trust is voted on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u9	Now, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor. Hello and happy birthday to 2018, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me just a brief response to President Faltýnek. In this case, it is not really about you, through Mr President Faltýnek. That week's delay doesn't mean anything. But it really is very important for a number of colleagues whether they will comment on the trust of a government that is chaired by a criminally prosecuted person or a person who is not criminally prosecuted at the time because he is protected by immunity. Whatever the outcome of the vote, and I predict how it will turn out, then it's just a little bit about concepts, because even if we don't vote on extradition first, but we will vote on government trust, then we will vote on the trust of the government of a man accused of the crimes of subsidy fraud and violations of the European Union's financial interests, because the Prime Minister is still in the position of the accused. His prosecution is only suspended, but the accused is, and no one's gonna take that off him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura, then Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor. Okay, just to be clear. The Prime Minister is being prosecuted and voting in the Chamber of Deputies will not change that fact. We will not vote on whether Members Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek will or will not be prosecuted. We will only vote if the prosecution is interrupted. So please, let's talk exactly. They're being prosecuted, and we'll vote when that point is on the agenda, whether it's interrupted or not. We will not, nor can we, and must not vote in the Chamber of Deputies on stopping any criminal proceedings. Just so we're clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. With priority rights, Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u14	Hello. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I understand the proposal made by President Bartoš here, but I am looking at this from a different perspective than he is. Quite logical. Look, it would be a precedent that hasn't been here since the Czech Constitutional System remembers. It's just a matter of making decisions without the draft mandate and immunity committee, and that can move us quite, forgive me, to revolutionary law. I understand that you can demand this revolutionary right, but I don't agree enough, because if we want to follow certain rules, let's follow them. Let's follow them! And the negotiations we have here are essentially due to the fact that you have declared in advance that you do not want to express your trust to the government of Andrej Babiš. One of the reasons it's an ongoing criminal trial. In this respect, I see it rather as you intend to disrupt the functioning of the constitutional institutions. That's reality. That's reality! You're just not interested in following certain rules that apply here in the constitutional system. It is certainly your right, it is a voteable proposal, but I do not agree with this from the point of view of the proper functioning of the constitutional institutions, I will not vote for it and I see no reason for us to put another point before it. Here it is clearly stated when the Chamber of Deputies must open negotiations on trust to the government that has been appointed, we will initiate it, and if one of those reasons is prosecution, well, you will not give that government any confidence. What difference does it make whether there is a mandate and an immune committee resolution or not? Nothing! So your attack on the constitutional system is in a way unfounded. Excuse me, if you want this as a media trick, just say it as a media trick, but don't try to do it as a standard for constitutional institutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura, then President Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor. I think that this situation is a path that is reasonable and will not contradict the traditions and customs that the Chamber of Deputies has. I'm not suggesting it at this point, I'll suggest it when the time comes. I think that we have to vote on the government's trust only after we know the position of the mandate and immunity committee. I think he's okay, and we'll see if the obstructions end next week on Tuesday, or they'll go on, and we can respond eventually. Because the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies is valid for the interruption, that is something to be said. In my opinion, it would have to be revitalized first. The House is a souvenir, and it can revisit the resolution. Then we can vote on the proposal made by President Bartoš. I expected the President of the House to record and propose this - and this is not a technique. I don't know why he didn't. So, in my opinion, the process is that we would first have to revise the resolution and then vote on the proposal that has been made here, which is legitimate. However, I can say for our club that it is really better to have the position of the mandate and immunity committee. And we can interrupt the meeting until then, then we can meet the mandate and the immune committee, we can discuss it, we can finish the negotiations, we can deliver an opinion, then we can discuss the release of the plenary, and then we can go back to voting on the government's trust. It is essentially the same goal, another way that will not give an alibi to those who do not want to vote for the issue so that they can say: we did not know the position of the mandate and immune committee, so we did not vote for the issue. prosit consider this possible political argument as well. I have heard this very, very often in recent days from the mouth of Members and Members, especially of an unnamed movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u17	Now with priority rights, Mr Michálek, then with priority rights, President Radim Fiala. I didn't want it until the end of the debate. Yes, the correct procedure will be revised by Resolution No. 33 that it is interrupted until discussion by the mandate and immune committee. Only then could we decide on Mr Bartoš's proposal. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor. My colleagues, I was first amused by the KSČM's protest against revolutionary law. Well, that was more of a bonmot. But back to the proposal made by Chairman Ivan Bartoš for the Pirates. He said that he should open the item Requesting the extradition of members of Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek for criminal prosecution. And, of course, within this point, the Chamber of Deputies can act on an appropriate procedure. And if the Chamber of Deputies wants a mandate and an immune committee to meet, as the law foretells, they will, of course, impose a mandate and an immune committee to meet without delay, deal with the matter without delay, and interrupt the Chamber of Deputies for the time necessary, and then they will meet when they have the recommendation of the mandate and immunity committee. It could still be tonight or tomorrow morning. I don't think that's a problem. All that matters is the Chamber of Deputies. I think the argument put forward here by the Communist Party is odd. It's possible to follow the constitutional procedures. [[10.20 hours]] And I think that we should also take care of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which says that the mandate and immune committee will promptly carry out the necessary investigations. Do you really think that more than a month, a month and a fortnight, that this is an accelerated execution of the investigation? The law says it's due at the first meeting after the request. We've done that, but we've put it off a couple of times. I think that if it is said here that we are to obey the laws, then we are to follow them first of all when it comes to the procedure for issuing Members to prosecute. That is why we insist on this proposal, as President Ivan BartoBartoš put it, to put a new point before the government's trust point, and on this point, it may be possible for us to formally decide whether to impose a mandate and an immune committee to meet quickly and investigate the matter, as required by the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u19	Thank you, too. Just pointing out that we are in a vote on the agenda, so it is not possible to make factual remarks. Only holders of priority rights may perform, or when someone proposes a new item of the programme. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u20	Thank you. Hello. Allow me a very short and brief position of the SPD movement. Before I give it to you, I must say that the SPD movement voted in favour of the release of Jaroslav Faltýnek, Andrej Babiš in the last parliamentary term, and that we do not yet see any reason to change this decision. However, there are some customs, there are laws we want to follow, and the SPD has decided to go the way we wait for the statement and for the resolution of the mandate and immune committee. We think that there are things being worked out, such as the OLAF report, which we want to read in an official translation in the Czech language, so that there are no doubts as to whether there was a word or that, and that means in legal English or other things. We also want Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek to have the right to defend themselves on the mandate and immunity committee. Once all this is done, we are immediately ready to vote on the extradition of Mr Faltýnek and Mr Babiš. So at today's meeting, we will not support the inclusion of the issue point of these two Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of Chvojka Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u22	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have two comments on the proposals that we are discussing here as regards voting on the extradition of Babiš and Faltýnek to prosecute before it is discussed by the mandate and immune committee. I'm really not some friend of my colleague Babiš or Faltýnek, but I think we should follow the principles of procedure that have been here for many years. I was vice-chairman of the mandate and immunity committee in that last term, before I was still a full member, and really always - and there were a lot of cases from David Rath to the others - we always, always waited for the end of the mandate and immunity committee. It would seem to me at least rude to the Members mentioned, so that we do not wait for the committee's decision, which may be a guide to how it will be decided by the plenary if we vote today. It would simply be contrary to the long-term principles that we have here. I think the conservative parties should just keep the rules that have been going on for many years. And I'm saying it shouldn't be taken personally that it's just these two gentlemen and that we have to vote today because otherwise something fundamentally bad is going to happen. As Chairman of the ČSSD Parliamentary Club, I have no information that there would be any significant extension of the deadline for the decision. I believe that this may be next Tuesday and that we will then be able to make a decision. And then note number two that there would be no government vote at all today, that it would just have to wait for the decision of the mandate and immunity committee. Well, I don't really understand. We do not support the government - and there will certainly be many of our colleagues talking about it - for the reasons we have been talking about for a long time. No one has discussed this government with us, no one has discussed this government's agenda with us, no one has talked to us about this government's staffing, but we certainly have not made a condition for whether or not we will support this government now whether or not the mandate and immune committee will decide or not. And I didn't hear it as a condition even from those pages called. The Democratic bloc or the Pirát. If they had made a condition once, when it started to be discussed, if they were issued or not, we would have supported the government, or we wouldn't have supported it, I would have understood it. But they said in advance - whether KDU-ČSL, ODS, Pirates and others - we will not support this government for well-known reasons, just as we will not support this government. And we are not really going to support this government, and we think that the non-support should be obvious and clear today, that is, in the nearest term that can be, that is, today. That government doesn't deserve trust, and it should know today. I don't know why we should postpone it a week, two weeks, or three Sundays. This may, in my opinion, be contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. So please, let's vote today, let's vote today, that this government doesn't have confidence, and let's make sure that government doesn't just take steps that are absolutely necessary and important for the operation of this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the KSČM Club Pavel Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u24	Mr President, Madame and gentlemen, I wish you a good day. I would follow up on that bonmot about that revolutionary right with just a little explanation. If it doesn't go quickly enough and sufficiently pregnantly and promptly according to the ideas of some part of society, then it will just somehow accelerate, the law will bend, or eventually some part of it will be eliminated at the moment, just so that the passions of the crowd are satisfied as quickly as possible and that the crowd is thrown into the arena by those Christians to lions and the principle of bread and play has been filled. [[Disadvised noise from the right.]] Moreover, it is accompanied by revolutionary impatience, so that it will be, if possible, today, and so the law will bend. The committee responsible, which has worked here for years, is precisely in order that, in similar cases, which are accompanied not only by the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, but also by the law of criminal law, in order to be discussed, prepared, adopted an opinion and - excuse me - the prosecution is never merely a bagel on a shop that can be solved by simple takeover and payment. It is really necessary for the persons concerned to have a chance - I am not saying that they must, but they have a chance - to familiarize themselves with the authorized translation into the language of the Chamber of Deputies, so that when the time comes and the decision of the court is made as it really was, and the remedies will be used so that the procedure is not unnecessarily questioned. On the contrary, I think that we need to make very clear in this case that all these procedural or procedural matters should be met precisely, because otherwise the situation will go on indefinitely. And neither in Czech society nor within the international concept of perception of the Czech Republic and Czech realities will this in any way help us or bring us no positive points. I merely say that the KSČM parliamentary club, as it was already evident from yesterday's negotiations, will not support the government, will not give confidence in this government in this first attempt. At the same time, however, we are those who honor the law and respect the law, perhaps even more than anyone else, precisely because it refers to us rather. We're used to something we don't quite succeed, so we're the first on the wallpaper to criticize everyone else. So, please, nicely, we will not support the pre-trialisation of the House's decision without a mandate committee, which is the content of Mr Bartoš's motion, nor the interruption of the negotiations until some time to resolve the mandate committee. Because I am a friend of the proper discussion, not of any impatient pressure on the mandate committee. Let us not exert this pressure to speed things up! The matter is too serious. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Bartošek. I expected the discussion to be heated. Then President Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna go loose on my previous speaker. Mr Kováčik, through Mr President, entertainment for the people can certainly be arranged in a way other than throwing Christians to lions. I think all we have to do is invite people to look at the meerkats, and they'll do the same. For us - Mr. Chairman, if you want to talk to me, over the microphone please! Anyway, I am asking you, Mr President, to convene a meeting at the level of club presidents, because if there is a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies, I believe that it should be respected. So if there is another interpretation, let us say that we can proceed in a different way and then agree on a further procedure. I think that only arguments will now be put forward as to why this can or cannot be done, and a joint meeting could make it easier for us to proceed in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u27	Thank you. Mr. Faltýnek, with priority rights. Just to clarify, if we were to end... Sorry, Chairman Michálek. If we had reached the end - I apologize, President Michálek reported earlier - if we had reached the end of the debate, we would probably have agreed with Mr Bartoš to clarify the name of the point where this could be a revision and then a continuation of the interrupted point. Now, Prime Minister Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u28	Thank you. I just wanted to turn against what was said here by the Communist Party that the law was bending. It really isn't. The law in force provides that the extradition request is to be discussed promptly. I do not understand why the delay in the government's confidence negotiations is being issued here as a violation of the Constitution and the delay in the extradition decision, which is to take place immediately, is considered to be a perfectly standard procedure here. I think we should approach both procedures equally and measure the same subway. It has been mentioned by Mr Chvojka that there is no further extension, but this is not the case because the next meeting of the mandate and immunity committee is scheduled before the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. This means that the meeting of the mandate and the immune committee can be extended. I suppose there will be a lot of questions, and it will not be completed again, and it will again be necessary to adjourn the committee. This has even been mentioned by several members at the meeting of the mandate and immunity committee. It's been five hours. The previous meeting lasted more than five hours. So, co-worker, don't twist your head at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u29	I will ask you to turn to your colleagues through me and preserve certain decorum. [[Member Michalek: Through the President.]] I'll ask everyone else to remain calm in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u30	I'm sorry, through the President. [[Still noisy in the hall. I'll ask for peace!]] I wanted to say that the rapporteur's report... Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u31	I'm asking you again to turn to your colleagues through me. It's my role to ask for peace in the hall. And I will really ask all of you, colleagues, to hear from the President. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u32	I wanted to say that the rapporteur's report on the mandate and immunity committee is prepared, according to what I have heard. And the argument that we have here that we want to vote without the decision of the mandate and immune committee is odd. It's a so-called straw shot you guys made. It sounded from my colleague Chvojka, it sounded from KSČM. I will ask that we listen better, because precisely the proposal made by President Bartoš is that he proposes a pre-position as item 1 of the meeting A request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek. This does not mean that it would necessarily have to be voted without a mandate and an immune committee discussing it. It has been explained at least three times here, so I'm surprised that some colleagues will then come forward with the fact that we are pushing for a mandate and an immune committee not to complete its negotiations. On the contrary, we want the mandate and immune committee to complete its negotiations and make recommendations The Chamber of Deputies will be able to discuss this as quickly as possible. And the procedural way to do this is to include this point, then to impose on the mandate and immunity committee to meet on this matter and deliver urgent recommendations and then to continue the meeting. And as a second point, only after the mandate and immunity committee's recommendation on the extradition of both Members has been voted on as the second point of this meeting to vote on the government's trust. So your argument is more of a straw shot. And I, from those parties that oppose this proposal - it really seems to me that it is more necessary for Prime Minister Babiš to have a second attempt to form a government first and only then to vote on its extradition. So it smells more like speculation to get a better offer in the second attempt. And I think it would be fair to vote on extradition first, and only then leave it to the President to identify a person who will have a second attempt to form a government that will gain the confidence of this Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u33	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ANO 2011 Parliamentary Club Jaroslav Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u34	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to ask if it wouldn't be better than to hold a meeting of club presidents, vote on the proposals that we might move forward a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u35	Thank you. I ask if anyone else has an additional proposal on the draft agenda, or I ask Mr Bartoš if he would like to clarify his proposal in any way, if he wants us to know what we will vote on, that a revision of the resolution would be necessary first of all, that the item is interrupted until discussion by the mandate and immune committee. It would just change the name of the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u36	I agree with changing the wording so that we can be correct. It's really a resection of this point, virtually. the inclusion of this item as a vote -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u37	I'll see it as two suggestions. Firstly, the revision of the resolution, one point. Second, then the interrupted point would continue. Noted. I think we've done our best in form. If we do not have any other proposals, we will first vote on the proposals tabled, then on the proposal for a programme as a whole. So on President Bartoš's proposal to include two new points on the agenda as the first points of today's negotiations. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In voting number 2, 193 Members were enrolled, for 65, against 115. This proposal has not been adopted. We will therefore now vote on the whole proposal for the 5th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as originally presented in writing. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? The number 3 vote is 193, for 167, against 17. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. At this point, we have a time of 10.37 and, given that the appearance of the President of the Republic of Miloš Zeman is being announced, I would have interrupted this meeting by 11.00 when the President's speech is expected. I thank you for this moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, it is 11.00 and we will continue the adjourned meeting of the 5th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm gonna ask you to settle down in your seats, and I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the hall. I'll give you a little space. [[After a while.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I ask you to settle in your seats... Last runners, thank you. I can announce that in a few moments Mr. Miloš Zeman will be visiting our meeting hall of the President of the Republic. Those who aren't ready, I'll ask them to sit down. [[He sounds fanfare from Libuše, the President of the Republic comes to the Chamber of Commons and takes his place at the fairground.]] Allow me to welcome Mr Miloš Zeman's President of the Republic among us and give him that word. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u39	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Government, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I hope you will allow me to address you in this way, as I myself have been a Member in this House for six years. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on your election and wish you every success in your work, regardless of party membership. First of all. Secondly, I would also like to thank those Members who have worked here in the past and who have not already been elected, either because they have not been running or because the voters have not given them confidence. I think he deserves this thank you for his four-year job. Well, since the old generation has such a tendency to flood public spaces with unsolicited advice that the young generation accepts with a long - suffering smile, let me give you one single advice that is also a wish. I wish you never lost touch with your constituents and, on the contrary, to expand this contact permanently and not just rely on contact at the time of the election campaign. I know small-town palaces are cozy, but citizens aren't inside, citizens are outside! We know that parliamentary days and parliamentary offices are not exactly overflowing with eager citizens who want to meet their MPs, and perhaps that is why it is good if citizens do not go as politicians to see people, wherever - in the square, in the halls, even in the pub, why not? so that they are not just a sound board, but they themselves said their opinions and listened to the opinions of citizens of the Czech Republic, because only in dialogue is the truth born. The last thing I want to say in this wish is one rude remark. I don't like it when politicians come into the business, they meet the management of this business and they don't meet the employees. I don't like politicians coming to the city or the village, meeting the local council and not having the courage, maybe the time, to meet the citizens. Let us wish that your work includes this contact, and as a prognostic, I can promise you that this will greatly increase the likelihood of your next reelection. And now, allow me to comment on the subject on which this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies was convened, i.e. on the matter of trusting Prime Minister Babiš's government. Understandably, if I appointed Andrej Babiš Prime Minister and subsequently his government, it is the President's duty to come here and express his support for this government. I've divided my performance on this subject into four parts. The first part concerns the Prime Minister, the second part of the government, the third part of the programming declaration and the fourth part of everything else. [[11.10 hours]] As far as the Prime Minister is concerned, it is understandable that the Prime Minister is to be appointed President of the winning party. I hate it if this rule is being circled and if there is some sort of blind person of less successful parties who are trying to push the winners to the edge of the political spectrum. On the other hand, it is, of course, the Prime Minister's duty to seek partnership with less successful political entities and to seek a reasonable agreement with them. As for the biggest and almost only problem that occurs in this first part of my performance, then, of course, it is the problem of the prosecution of Andrej Babiš. I'm going to answer this very clearly. Since ancient Roman times, there's been a presumption of innocence. And the presumption of innocence says that the accused must be viewed as innocent until, possibly, he is finally convicted. I therefore ask all politicians, including themselves, not to play police investigators or prosecutors or even judges. It's not their function. Let us let the law enforcement authorities work and accept their decisions with humility. I myself have registered several strange cases where I have remembered another ancient Roman principle: in dubio pro reo, or in doubt in favor of the accused. I'll give you at least two of these cases. We have recently stated with the Minister of Justice the existence of a report which says that in 80 percent of the cases the courts have freed the local politicians who have been accused by the police. In 80 percent of the cases, colleagues, and that's a lot! And the second and final case, to keep you from delaying you for a long time, is the well-known case of Budišov, where Věra Jourová was accused, even wanted to commit suicide in custody. After a few months, she was released and has now become our Commissioner in Brussels. And as you know, the case of Budišov was also a grant fraud. So let's keep a reasonable level of skepticism. But if we're going to demand something, it's first of all that the investigation goes on relatively quickly. We should not repeat situations such as: Former Singing Secretary of Defense Vlasta Parkanová has been investigated for five years for the alleged overpriced supply of Casa aircraft and over the past five years the investigation has virtually not moved from the scene. It wouldn't be good for any investigator to tell us after five years: the investigation is over, forget it, sorry like. Now let me go to the second point, and that is the composition of the government. I've met all the new members of the government. I had a very sympathetic impression of this, although, of course, you can't properly judge anyone during an hour's meeting, but one thing I have to say is that I am pleased. When I spoke to the new Minister of Education, I found that he had, to put it mildly, a very distancing attitude towards inclusion. And I was pleased because I've been protesting inclusion for several years as a monstrous social experiment. I'd have ten arguments against inclusion, but I'll tell you one thing. One of the strongest human feelings is the joy of success. A child, mentally disabled and assigned to a normal class, loses that joy. It'll always be the last one. While in a special or practical class, he'll have a chance to stand out from time to time. Forgive me for getting a little excited, but this is a topic that really interests me in the long run, and it is secondary that there should be 4 billion crowns on inclusion, which we could certainly use in a far more sensible way. So much for the government. Third, second to last, item - programming declaration. I have read this programming statement, I do not yet have a new version, but I have been informed about it, and in the Christmas message I have appreciated this programming statement as a good starting point, not as a definitive product, just for the discussion of political partners. It kind of reminds me of a buffet in the good sense of the word, where everyone can choose what they want. It seems to me that in some cases there are topics on which a large part of our political scene can unite. I would like to highlight the issue of direct democracy, not only the Act on a general referendum, which appeared in the second version of the programming declaration, but also the direct choice of mayors, mayors and captains. And I would like to remind the STAN movement that I once conspired with them at their convention in order to make this direct choice. I hope they haven't forgotten their program point. Another programme terminal in a slightly different structure may be a requirement to improve the situation of old-age pensioners or disabled. Here, however, we always have to ask where we're going to get the money, and the same applies to the ODS tax reduction requirement. And I think that there are resources, don't be alarmed by the expression "sources are," they really are, because this country is burdened every year with 40 billion CZK of subsidies for renewable resources, especially solar resources, and these subsidies have caused past governments and the last parliament, but that does not mean that despite the concerns of arbitration, we can completely ignore this enormous burden. Provocative number two - and there'll be a few more. I learned that CZK 11 billion goes from the state budget to nonprofit organizations. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a famous friend of nonprofit organizations, but sometimes I think that they should manage for their own and not vacuum the state budget, because CZK 11 billion is a lot of money. [[11.20 hours]] Well, and provocation number three. I would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention through the President that about 500 officials worked at the Straka Academy five years ago and today there are less than a thousand. I think the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in her ministry has experienced a similar situation and is not alone. Therefore, if you want to take away the budget expenditure so that you have enough money for these godly purposes that I have mentioned, please reduce the vast number of officials who often invent unnecessary work. We're making speeches here about the computerization of public administration, and this computerization, which should replace the routine work of officials, is missing the effect. And according to Parkinsonův's laws, for example, we have twice as many officials in the Republic as it was at the time of my reign. Note last to the programming declaration. I have a few years of dispute with the Prime Minister about the importance of investment. Simple equations apply: economic development in the future is a function of the volume of investment in the present. There's a time delay corresponding to, for example, the length of construction, but that's not so important right now. I was giving the Minister of Finance material that clearly shows that the volume of investment is falling significantly, and that is why we are doomed to put an end to the beautiful 5% economic growth in that future. I know, my friends, investment doesn't have the right to vote. I know they're not bringing any new voters. But the Prime Minister and I like the book Jan Baťa We build a state for 40 million people. And what else is this book than an investment program for the Czech Republic? I welcome the consideration of the Ministry of Public Investment, I welcome the consideration of the long-term investment programme, but I would like to see concrete results, not promised but real kilometres of motorways. And I believe that will happen in the next four years. So much for the programming statement. And now I'm going to the last part-- a part that's called different and which I could also call "what's next." I stress that he is not the president who should be discussing the government. That's not his function. Of course, I will never refuse a consultation request, but I will never initiate it either. I therefore expect the Prime Minister to conduct often long and demanding negotiations based on some of the bolts that I mentioned in the section devoted to the programming declaration. I am aware that this may take a very long time. Look at Germany. There's been a coalition debate going on for months, and I think it's going to be going on for a while. I admit there wasn't much time for this now - for two reasons. Firstly, the Prime Minister asked me to appoint his government on 13 December, and I complied with it because I acknowledged it as a valid reason, and this was a visit to the European Council in Brussels on 14 December. But that's when the 30-day deadline came up. And besides, and that's the second reason it was Christmas and New Year's Eve, so it wasn't so much done. I therefore undertake to create sufficient time before an announced second attempt corresponding to a possible German model, so that negotiations can take place, whether they are directed towards a majority coalition government or, on the contrary, a minority government with tolerance or support from some parliamentary bodies. I'm not telling you any secrets when I tell you that there are several variants of such support. I won't name the parties, but I'll tell you the numbers: 103, 108, 115 and 140. You didn't hear anything. [[Fun in the hall.]] However, allow me to make one comment on the coalition government after all. There is a bonmot that is attributed to former Slovak Prime Minister Vladimír Mečiar, and it is said that escalating the word of the enemy has three degrees: the first degree - the enemy, the second degree - the archenemy and the third degree - the coalition partner. When I told this bonmot to a colleague of mine, he looked at me sadly and said, "Miloš, there is still a fourth degree - Parteigenesse." And I said to him, "Yes, you're right. I have also experienced my party comrades in this role." So I must say that I understand Andrej Babiš's efforts to lead a single-color minority government, to lead a government based on experts, to lead a government that will work as a single working team, and that will not be distraught by internal, especially coalition contradictions. Well, what can I say in conclusion? I realize that today The Chamber of Deputies is very likely not to speak to Babišův's government because of the lack of all necessary negotiations. I confirm my commitment to appoint Andrej Babiš as Prime Minister for the second time and express my commitment once again to creating a sufficient time space for peaceful, factual and working negotiations. I believe that even today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, if it focuses on the content of the programming declaration, which should be the basis of any trust between parliamentary bodies, will be factual, peaceful and constructive. [[11.30 hours]] Dear colleagues and dear colleagues, I would like to congratulate you once more in the end. But you know what? Political commentators and party buffoons either rejoice or, on the contrary, pitiful over the results of their parliamentary bodies. I can understand that. But all of you, as you are here, have won. And that's what needs to be realized. You have won thanks to the confidence of the voters and I congratulate you on this victory and I wish you to be able to transform it into useful work for the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-10-ps2017-005-01-000-000.u40	Thank you. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. We will proceed with the approved agenda for this meeting. So I'm opening one point, and that's point number.
