ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u1	29. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions of acquisition and recognition of competence for the performance of non-medical health professions and the pursuit of activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws (the Act on Non-medical Health Occupations), as amended /German press 105/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 105/1. I welcome both Senator Alena Dernerová and Senator Vladimír Plaček here, and I ask Senator Dernerová to present the proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, Mr Ministers, honourable Members, allow me to briefly introduce you to the draft Senate Bill amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising competence for the performance of non-medical health professions and for carrying out activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws, the Act on non-medical health professions, as amended. This bill is absolutely simple. In fact, he exempts two professions from this health law, namely the profession of therapist and specialists of traditional Chinese medicine. The reason for this is simple: because traditional Chinese medicine is not medicine itself. There's only one medicine. It's the medicine that's based on science, and that's not traditional Chinese medicine. They're flasks, acupuncture, tea. I pre-send that we're not against traditional Chinese medicine as such, we don't want to cancel it, we're just saying that it can't be in the medical law. It's nonsens. The same opinion is shared by all deans of medical faculties, the Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyna, headed by profesor Svačina, the Scientific Council of the Czech Medical Chamber. I must say that we have also done research on whether there is any accredited workplace that would actually teach this TČM, this healing, and we have found that there is no. That means we're not interrupting something that's running, but something that's only on paper. Traditional Chinese medicine is actually a medical field and, as such, it must basically be passed to the law that is being prepared, and that is the law on healers. That's where she belongs, and she'd look great there. Some might argue that it's an ancient thing. Yes, ancient is astrology and alchemy, and it also doesn't make them scientific disciplines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u3	I'm sorry, Senator. I call on the Members to be more calm here, so that all those who are interested can hear your reasoning. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Just a little while longer. I beg you to support this bill that really makes sense. Just healers are part of the healer's law, and they don't belong in medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u5	Thank you. I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't think Law No. 96 will appear here so soon after we have closed it in the last parliamentary term, but I will, as rapporteur, allow myself some additions. As the applicant said, the proposal removes the fields of the therapist and specialist of traditional Chinese medicine from the law on nonmedical health professions. That alone is actually the reason. These occupations were incorporated into the law on the basis of the 2017 parliamentary amendment, which, according to the petitioners of the House press, unsystematically separates and favours Chinese medicine compared to other healing methods. The Czech Medical Chamber, the Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyně and the deans of medical faculties, have taken negative positions in the integration of Chinese medicine into the Act on Non-medical Medical Occupations, which has already been mentioned by the author. The occupation of a therapist and specialists in Chinese medicine has been introduced into the Non-medical Occupations Act without evaluating all the effects of the amendment and without clarifying how they are to be included in the health services system. For example, there is no definition of the conditions for granting authorisation for the provision of health services under the Health Services Act. [[14.40 hours]] I consider Chinese medicine to be a field of healing rather than medical, and it is therefore not appropriate to regulate it as one of the health professions that should provide health services within the meaning of the Health Services Act. In addition, there are a number of other medical disciplines in the Czech Republic, which also need to be regulated in the interests of patient safety. A comprehensive legal regulation of healing would be an appropriate solution. Such an adjustment should define transparently what activities in the Czech Republic healers, including therapists of Chinese medicine, will be entitled to, what their responsibility for health care activities will be, who will determine which treatment procedures are and which are not permitted. A comprehensive legal regulation of healing should be passed through transparent commentary procedures. The scope for comment should be given to professional companies, medical faculties, which did not happen during the adoption of the previous amendment. At present, the Ministry of Health intends to submit this comprehensive legal regulation to healers. For the record, the Ministry of Health has adopted a neutral opinion, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs neutral and the Government neutral opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. Mr Válek is entered into the general debate. I am merely saying that they are signed up here with the factual remarks of Mrs Adámková and Mrs Procházková, but they have nevertheless come forward at a time when the general debate was not open, so I will give the floor to Mr Válek and after that I will make factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I am so sorry to keep you. On the one hand, I wanted to thank the Senate very much for returning this standard and allowing Parliament to comment on it again, and, on the other hand, I would like to explain why I am speaking. I am therefore acting because, at the time that Parliament adopted this standard, I was President of the Association of Academic Boards of the Faculty of Medicine of the Czech Republic and then all academic senates, including the student chambers and the academic senate of Charles University, wrote a very clear statement that does not criticize the fact that traditional Chinese medicine, homeopathy, Ayurvedic medicine or other paramedical and healing practices were a priori fraud, crime or something like that, it merely criticizes that these methods cannot be taught in medical faculties and that they cannot be solved in the same way as standard Western methods that are normally taught in all medical faculties around the world. That was the main objection. It should be noted that if we do not support this Senate proposal, then these traditional Chinese therapists will learn at medical faculties, but traditional Western physiology, traditional Western anatomy, will do traditional Western statesmen, then they will be able to, because it will be a Master's degree, do PhD. study according to our conditions, they will have to have publications in impacted journals, etc. etc. This means, from my point of view, this inclusion of traditional Chinese medicine in the standard education system at medical faculties is not only a very unfortunate step in terms of science, but it is also an unfortunate step for those traditional Chinese healers who do the job well. I think most of us go to Thai massages, and yet they don't learn Bachelor or Master's degree in Thai massage - physiotherapy. I think that many of us, looking for water and being in a desperate situation, have invited an expert with a virgulite, and yet they don't teach in the building faculties to search for mineral resources using a virgulum. And the same is true of traditional Chinese medicine. That means, I think we should think about two points. The first point is that we should, very strongly and clearly, support the position of the Senate. The second point is that, at the same time, we should open a very intense debate on non-medical disciplines. I am convinced that there are a number of healers - and now I don't just think of ladies and gentlemen who are preparing different kinds of teas, I don't just mean those who perform different types of massage, I don't just mean those who do acupressure, but I mean those who do acupuncture, homeopathy, etc. And my personal opinion of a man who teaches at the Faculty of Nuclear Physics, who teaches biomedical engineers and who is very much in this direction, I would say, technically focused, naturalistically focused and all data and all facts repeatedly considering and not trusting himself and using an I.D. in the morning checking when he wants to shave or wash, if he is, so I don't mean this War, I mean the War, which is open to different opinions and which says well, maybe there's something about it, maybe we'll say in ten years, in fifteen years, yes, that's where science has moved. But today science is not there, and even these professions, these disciplines must be corrected, because among these healers there are a number of very decent people who are trying, sincerely trying to help patients, sick people, our fellow citizens, doing their job as best they can, as they have taught them in different courses, in different - I don't know - fields of their teachers, but there are also con artists among them. And today, a patient isn't protected against these con men, there's no legislation to protect him. As an expert in law, I'm asked here and there to write a testimonial on whether or not this method was correctly used. I can't write a report on a healer. And there's one more thing we need to realize. Yes, it's an interference with some kind of rights, if we accept legislation that involves healers, but a person who's in a difficult life situation who has a relative who cares about him, if he has a child, it's all the worse, and this person is looking for any variant, he's prone to believe anything. Therefore, for these fields, which are not medical, natural sciences, and therefore cannot be taught according to the system of teaching at the natural sciences, at the medical faculties, at non-medical universities, so that these disciplines have some clear rules that define who can do them, under which conditions they can do them, who are those who do them with the best knowledge and conscience, and who are those who are the impostors who are dying for uselessly by our fellow citizens. So I beg you very much to support this law, and I want to say that that position was completely unanimous back then. Even, and now take it as an exaggeration, the medical society considered that colleagues of our own who supported the law would be excluded from their ranks, which seemed crazy to me and I was fundamentally against it. But it really wasn't a happy move, and it would be wrong for us to get traditional Chinese medicine somewhere where she doesn't really want to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Adámková, Mrs Procházková and Mrs Gajdůšková, will now make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, healing and traditional Chinese medicine are very nice for the media, but remember, we have traditional Thai medicine, we have medicine of South American Indians and North American Indians, and we have our folk medicine. It has to be said that it does not really have a place there at the moment, even if it was accepted with good intentions. I think the Senate proposal is going to handle this elegantly, no one is getting hurt, and let's wait for the data. The problem is that any traditional, folk medicine, to be more precise, has never undergone any valid comparison with so-called Western medicine, or we really cannot comment on it. Surely there is a large proportion of the art of dragging a patient into his world, there is a great art of talking to a patient, but unfortunately it does not really have a place in modern medicine. If we wanted to be completely precise, the biggest results on the Czech territory were the living goddesses and we also do not have them in the payment decree. So you really have to wait and then decide. I believe that the Senate proposal is correct and we are to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u11	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mrs Procházková will now speak. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u12	Thank you for the floor. Hello, everyone. I only have a brief statement on the Senator through Mr President. Acupuncture has a scientifically proven basis, is taught as part of specialization for pain treatment and is also operated like this. So that's just a clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u13	Thank you. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková and her factual point. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u14	Thank you for the floor. I have to admit, I know doctors, trained doctors of our medical faculties, who use alternative techniques and especially Chinese medicine. And I have to say, the holistic view is very successful. On the other hand, it must be said that the inclusion of Chinese medicine in this law, which we are talking about, is truly unsystematic. I strongly support the Senate proposal and then discuss the law on healers, which is also needed, as Professor Válek has said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u15	Mr Holík will respond with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u16	Mr President, gentlemen of the Ministers, Madam Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I have such a polite question. I listened to my previous speaker, and to this day I did not understand the difference between Western anatomy and Eastern anatomy. There are differences, aren't there? I think the structure of the human body is exactly the same. I don't want to screw anything up. In the past, like any other person, when I got the flu, I went and got some antibiotics. For the past three years, I've been using ginger tea, honey, lemon and, if necessary, a seagull. Does that mean I'm also a healer, even if I'm treating myself?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u17	Thank you. Mr Válek will speak with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u18	As a lifelong teacher, I am patient myself, and through the President I will try to answer both questions. No, you're not a healer, but if, in return, you offer the seagull to your fellow citizens, you become a healer at that point. And if, in return, you offer to your fellow citizens and claim to cure their cancer, you become a fraud and you should be arrested for it. Unfortunately, current legislation does not somehow allow this. As for the anatomy, yes, there is no difference between Western, Eastern or North and Southern anatomy, but there is a fundamental problem between the anatomy perceived by traditional Chinese medicine and taught at medical faculties and natural sciences. Traditional Chinese medicine is based on Meridians of Railways. Meridians of the track are not anatomically and physiologically defined, so it is difficult to determine the professor of anatomy or physiology. These can be determined by a professor of traditional Chinese medicine. That's the problem. Traditional Chinese medicine comes from qi and cang, from two forces, but they have no support in what they learn in physiology, pathophysiology. This means that I will fight for it with all my might to make there a faculty of traditional Chinese medicine, but I cannot allow traditional Chinese medicine to be taught at medical faculties and natural sciences, because it is technically not possible. I just can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u19	The debate is attended by Minister Vojtěch. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to briefly comment on this Senate bill, which aims therefore to rethink the existence of the medical profession of the therapist of Chinese medicine and the specialist of traditional Chinese medicine in Act No. 96/2004 Coll. I am of the opinion that the adoption of this amendment, which was proposed by the amendment, was not entirely considered. In fact, not all the effects of this change have been considered, especially with regard to the health services system. The codification or incorporation in this law implies, in principle, that the provider of these services will actually be a provider of health services, but it has not been evaluated in any way as it will be integrated into the system of the Health Services Act, as the conditions for providing these health services will be defined. So, from this point of view, I consider this inclusion really to be preconceived, unthinkable and premature, and I agree with what has been said here that it is rather unsystemic. As the Ministry of Health, we agree that these methods actually, rather than classical methods, are based medicine, health services methods belonging to health services are healers' methods. I guess there's a match here. We know that, of course, it is not only traditional Chinese medicine. The healing methods are different. We've got homeopathy, we've got acupuncture and all that. That is why we have decided to solve this systemically and to prepare a new law on healing, if you want, perhaps on complementary medicine, which clearly defines the conditions for providing such services. It is true that these services are generally in the grey zone today, in principle we do not know who provides these services, under what conditions. There is no condition, for example, to manage at least some basic documentation that the particular client is provided with for services. I don't want to point out the very medialized case of the Aktip Squad right now. I don't want to compare it to Chinese healing. Yet this shows that there are really these different services here, and we simply don't have them as the Ministry of Health, and I think no one's keeping track of them. It works by setting up a business license, opening an office, and treating or providing these healing services. That is why we want to present the law on healing, which should codify these healing services, complementary medicine, or set rules for it. He should set up some clear records, file management and so on. The law is already being prepared. Even on the basis of this proposal, we will have the first version prepared for some initial discussion by the end of June and I hope that we will be able to get it to the House by the end of the year. So in this respect, I'm giving consideration, of course, to everyone whether they support this Senate proposal, but I think that the really better option is these alternative methods, complementary methods to have specified in a special law than to mix them with those say base records by methods that are then subject to the Health Services Act, which is really a different system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u21	Thank you. Mrs Adámková and Mr Kasal will respond with factual comments. Mr. Senator Plaček is here for the debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few additions to a colleague here because of the healing. To talk about things, I like to be clear about it, which is why I am a certified homeopath myself. But I never thought I'd want to put this in medical services. That doesn't really belong there. On the other hand, for your information, phytotherapy is plant treatment. The Czech Republic has an amazing primate in this because one of our doctors is winning big global competitions through the Ayurveda and so on. He's our, originally a doctor, and he would never have thought to include this in the health care system. [[unintelligible]] So I'm guessing no one's getting hurt here. And otherwise, if you're using vitamin C and a seagull, it's okay. You know that the treatment of infections also has a non-pharmacological measure where the increased intake of vitamin C is, so it's actually perfectly okay. It's not healing, it's non-pharmacological disease treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u23	Mr. Kasal. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just making a few comments on the previous speakers. I would very much like adequate data to be used. It is not true that at least the acupuncture is not based. That's what I'd like to hear here. [[15.00 hours]] For the next one. I wonder how it will be looked at by doctors because this method, namely acupuncture, is used by 1,500 doctors in the Czech Republic. So if they use it, they'll be healers? If they don't use it, it's gonna be doctors? We should be clear about this. And if it's considered to be a science, just look at what universities it's taught to be in London, let it be in Los Angeles, let it be in France in the Sorbonne, let it be in Spain. So I'm not saying it's a good thing it's in the law on non-medical professions, but there it was because doctors didn't accept it until 90. And one last point. There's a fear of not paying for it from the health services. So look at Law 48, where it is clearly stated that acupuncture is not being replaced. It's in the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u25	Mr. Senator Plaček will be speaking in the debate. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, honourable Government. Let me also ask you to support this law. I think it is quite clear from these speeches that we believe that this is really about healing as far as traditional Chinese medicine is concerned. I'm a little sorry there was an acupuncture, which, of course, doesn't solve this at all, this proposal of ours. It's really just traditional Chinese medicine. And so I would like to highlight the activity of the Minister of Health, because when discussing this proposal in the Senate, in our committees, he presented his interest in creating a law on healers and taking these fields into this law. And it's really starting to be quite an up-to-date thing, at least for us senators, because the public is starting to respond and we're really getting e-mails in the sense that we need to deal with healing in some way. They want to know their rights, their responsibilities, and their rules. So once again, I thank the Minister very much, and of course we are in the Senate to assist the Minister as regards the Act on Healing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u27	Thank you. Mr Kasal will respond with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u28	Thank you. I just want to ask for an answer as to how it's going to look with the doctors. Whether they're gonna be healers or what? Fifteen hundred doctors use it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u29	Thank you. Senator Dernerová is enrolled in the general debate. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Like this. Those doctors who run acupuncture, and I know a lot of them, and I can tell you that patients who have, like, a patésis of the cheek nerve, and they're not going, I'm gonna send them to the acupuncture. But I'm going to send them not to the healer, but to a doctor who has a basic six-year medical education, and for that he's done an extension somewhere, or he's learned the acupuncture. The possibilities are here. I also spoke to the doctor who has an institute in Prague. And there are these doctors who then run acupuncture and they're doctors. It is true that in some countries of Germany, some jacketsrepublice, or Switzerland some insurance companies pay for homeopathy or acupuncture. But be careful, they only pay for it to those who are doctors, they have a classic medical degree, and then they do some sort of superstructure or a course. But they're the only ones who pay for it. And basically, I have to say, these systems are a little different financially. Otherwise, I must say that what bothers me right now is that traditional Chinese medicine is in medical law. She's just not supposed to be there. Let's leave her here, but let's have her in the Healer Act. That's why we need to remove it, remove it from the health law, so that we can then put it into the law it belongs to. As we say, we don't condemn her, we don't tell her not to be here, but she can't be in the medical code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u31	Thank you. Mr Farhan will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me just make two brief remarks. First. I think we're getting lost here in a discussion of healing. The reason why this proposal is actually being presented is that in the past, the therapist of Chinese medicine has been unsystemically assigned to medical professions, or what I would call it. And the second thing is about acupuncture. On the contrary, I think it's a good thing that doctors are doing it because in acupuncture - or should only be performed by doctors from my point of view - because in acupuncture there is a violation of the integrity of the body barrier, which is the skin, and that is what they are entitled to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-014-029.u33	Thank you. I don't have any more enrolled in the general debate. I'm asking if anyone else is checking in from the scene. It's not like that. So I am done with the general debate. Is there any interest in the final words, please? Neither the appellant nor the rapporteur are interested. In that case, since there has been no proposal to return or to refuse, we will deal with the commandments of this proposal to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest ordering this proposal to another committee as a committee of guarantee? There is no such proposal. So we can proceed to the vote. We will vote on the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number 154. 171 Members registered, for 139, versus 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Is there, please, a proposal for another committee to address this proposal? It's not like that. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee of guarantee. Thank you both to the Senate representatives present, thank you to the rapporteur, and I am done discussing this point. Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes from today's meeting between 14.30 and 16 pm. Mr Radek Koten apologises from 14.30 to 16.30 for adoption to the Security Committee. Mr Radim Fiala apologizes today from 16.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. The Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes from the members of the government from 14:00 to 16:00, and Minister Jaroslava Němcová apologises from today's meeting for work reasons from 14:30 to 15:30. Initiating item discussion
