ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u1	40. Request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek At the 2nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 30 November 2017, by resolution No 33 we suspended this item and adjourned it until the time of discussion by the mandate and immune committee. The mandate and immunity committee discussed the request for consent and on Tuesday 16. 1. you have been served on the bench by his resolution No 38 and 39 of 16 January 2018. I will ask the President of the mandate and immunity committee, Mr Stanislav Grospič, to report to us on the request of the Regional Directorate of the Prague City Police, the Criminal Police and Investigation Services, the Department of Economic Crime, on the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, the first request from the Prague Directorate of the Prague Police of the capital city of Prague, the services of criminal police and investigations, the Department of Economic Crime, the Third Department, to express the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek, was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies in the seventh parliamentary term, and the Chamber of Deputies agreed to prosecute both Members on 6 September 2017. Given the results of the elections to the Chamber of Deputies held on 20 and 21 October 2017, in which . Andrej Babiš and . Jaroslav Faltýnek has obtained the mandate of a Member, the consent of the newly elected Chamber is required to continue the criminal prosecution of both Members. On 22 November 2017, a request was received from the President of the Chamber of Deputies for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute both Members, and on the following day it was forwarded to the mandate and immunity committee to discuss and report to the House on the proposal. Both Members received a request from the Police Authority together with an invitation to the mandate and immunity committee meeting on 9 January 2018 and delivery was declared. The members of the Committee have had the opportunity to familiarise themselves with the request made by the Police Authority, which is annexed to the resolution on the initiation of criminal proceedings against both Members, at the premises of the secretariat of the Committee. The criminal file kept in the case of both Members was not provided to the mandate and immunity committee, but the police authority allowed all members of the committee who expressed an interest to consult the criminal file at the premises of the Regional Directorate of the Police of the capital city of Prague after repeated requests. As of 4 January this year, the final report of the Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, was included in the criminal file in English. The request by the Police Authority to give the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute both Members shall contain, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the definition of the acts which are at issue and their anticipated legal qualifications. At its 3rd meeting, which took place on 28 November 2017, the mandate and immune committee initiated the discussion of the request of the police authority. Member Kateřina Valachová has been designated as rapporteur for the Committee and the Committee has interrupted the discussion in order to request the documents necessary for the assessment of the matter. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, the discussion of the request of the Police Authority was then included at the 2nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as paragraph 31. The discussion of this point was subsequently suspended and adjourned by House 33 of 30 November 2017 until this point was discussed by the mandate and immune committee. A further meeting of the committee on the request of the police authority took place at the 4th meeting of the mandate and immunity committee on 12 December 2017 and was suspended by Resolution 23, which I was responsible for re-inviting the Chief Commissioner for the delivery of the criminal file. The application was rejected by the police authority again. At the 6th meeting of the Committee on 9 January 2018, the committee heard the comments of the Chief Commissioner, Captain Pavel Nevtípil, and the supervisory prosecutor of the Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Prague, doktor Jaroslav Šaroch, who answered the questions asked by committee members. As a basis for the committee's deliberations, the Head State Attorney in Prague was granted an exit from the surveillance investigation carried out on the basis of the complaint lodged by Imobia, a. s. The two Members invited to this committee's meeting requested, through their legal representatives, that their date of personal participation be transferred to the next committee's meeting, because of the possibility of getting to know their legal representatives with the text of the final OLAF report, which was included in the criminal file against both Members. This request was granted by the Committee and Mr Andrej Babiš and Member Jaroslav Faltýnek were invited to attend the committee's meetings in the presence of their legal representatives on 16 January 2018. The hearing of the police authority's request was then suspended by the Committee until 16 January 2018. At an emergency meeting of the Committee held on 10 January this year, by resolution 37 the Committee extended the list of persons invited to the Committee meeting on 16 January 2018 to Mr Mgr Jiří Komárek. Resolution 37 was then adopted as follows by a number of 10 votes of 19 members present in the committee. At the next meeting of the Committee, it was then decided to refrain from hearing Mr Mgr's personal observations. Jiří Komárek, on account of the decision of the Minister of the Interior not to waive Mr Komárek's obligation to remain silent. This decision was then delivered to the Committee before the mandate and immunity committee was held on 15 January. The members of the committee subsequently listened to Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek and their legal representatives at the meeting of the mandate and immunity committee on 16 January. All those invited answered the questions asked by the members of the committee. Both Members stated in their speeches before the Committee that they would ask the Chamber of Deputies for their extradition. Following the hearing of Mrs Kateřina Valachová's report and following the debate, the mandate and immune committee adopted two proposals submitted to the House, which were distributed to you on the bench on 16 January. The committee voted separately on each of the two Members, and the motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies for the extradition of Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek was then supported by a majority of the members of the committee. With the positions of the mandate and immunity committee on the request of the police authority to give the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek, the rapporteur of the committee will then introduce you to Mrs Kateřina Valachová. I thank you for your attention for the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u3	Thank you, Mr President. And now I will ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to The Chamber of Deputies was informed of the news report on the approval of the criminal prosecution of members of Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek and, in its conclusion, the resolutions adopted by the mandate and immune committee. The mandate and immunity committee began to discuss a request for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic for criminal prosecution on 28 November 2017. It is a repeated request which, during the previous term of office of the House, ended by expressing consent to the prosecution of both Members. The mandate and immune committee has also decided on the way in which the application is to be dealt with in a similar way in terms of equality and predictability in all cases of a request for consent to the criminal prosecution of Members in this House's term of office. [[9.20 hours]] The Committee has set up a procedure for discussing: getting acquainted with the request, getting acquainted with the investigation file, hearing the investigator and the prosecutor, hearing Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek. In the course of the committee investigation, there was an extension of the knowledge of OLAF's report, the hearing of Master Jiří Komárek. The Committee did not find a consensus with the Police of the Czech Republic on allowing access to the investigation file at the House's headquarters or a copy of the file to be consulted. As a result of the speed of their inquiry, Members and Members finally got acquainted with the investigation file at the police headquarters. After the Czech Republic received OLAF's report on the subsidy from European funds to the Čapi Nest farm and after the relevant prosecutor decided and its inclusion in the investigation file, MEPs had the opportunity to familiarise themselves with OLAF's report in English, again by looking into the investigation file with the police authority. All Members of the police were instructed on confidentiality when they consulted the investigation file, including the OLAF report. Closer to OLAF's report. The OLAF report for prior exchange of information with the police shall contain information from the criminal preparatory non-public investigation file. The findings in OLAF's report are thus similar to the findings of the police until then collected in the investigation file. Neither the SA nor the Attorney General recommended the publication of OLAF's report on grounds of possible obstruction of investigations. The Ministry of Finance refused, in a substantial part, to publish a report pursuant to the Free Access to Information Act with reference to the non-public criminal preparatory procedure and the inclusion of the report in the investigation file. The investigator and the prosecutor were released in accordance with the relevant regulations by their superior authorities of confidentiality. They replied to the Committee on 9 January 2018 to all questions raised by Members and Members of the Committee. The following conclusions were drawn from the hearing: Both investigators and prosecutors have identified the extent of the collected findings described in the allegations made, the degree of evidence and the justification of the culpability at this stage of the criminal proceedings as normal according to their professional practice. The investigator and prosecutor drew attention to the early phase of the criminal proceedings of a non-public preparatory procedure. Both investigators and prosecutors consider the actions carried out in criminal proceedings to be smooth. The prosecutor added that this fluency could only be disrupted once in providing expert opinions. The investigator and prosecutor did not comment on OLAF's report with the reference that their official translation into the Czech language was not completed. The investigator estimated the acquisition of a translation for several weeks. The investigator commented on speculation about his credibility in some media and rejected them. [[About your own?]] The State Attorney stated that he continuously carried out control and surveillance checks in criminal proceedings, and he also investigated speculation according to the previous point. The prosecutor informed about the phase of his decision on complaints lodged in criminal proceedings. Both investigators and prosecutors ruled out political pressure on them at any time during criminal proceedings. Members of Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek requested that the hearings to which they were invited be postponed, referring to the fact that the police will not allow them to know OLAF's report by 9 January 2018, that is until the date on which the meeting was convened. The Committee decided on their request to postpone the hearing at the meeting on 9 January by accepting it and inviting both Members to the meeting on 16 January at 8 a.m. The investigator confirmed, in response to a repeated inquiry by committee members, that until 9 January 2018, the Members to be issued were not allowed access to the investigation file and familiarisation with OLAF report. At an emergency meeting of the Committee on 10 January convened on the request of a group of Members on the basis of a proposal from a MemberRozvoral the Committee decided to invite Mr Komárek to the hearing on 16 January 2018. The Minister of the Interior failed to comply with the Committee's requests for exemption from confidentiality from the invitation of Mr Mgr Jiří Komárek in full. The following conclusions were drawn from the hearings of Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek: Mr Andrej Babiš said that he would ask the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give his consent to his prosecution. Ambassador Andrej Babiš considers the case to be political. The only reason he's in his court is because he's in politics. In particular, he rejected the basic hypothesis of the police that the shares did not exist and could not be transferred. He refused to organise or issue criminal orders. He also pointed out that there are dozens of similar cases without the police interest. According to him, OLAF also treats the incentives it receives differently. According to his court, the timing of the elections to the Chamber of Deputies to the Parliament of the Czech Republic took place. He refused to attack his family in the media. He considers the whole thing to be an intervention of executive power in legislative power. Mr Andrej Babiš's legal representative has informed the mandate and immunity committee of the essential circumstances which he has also applied in his complaint against the resolution on the initiation of criminal proceedings. This has not yet been decided. According to the lawyer, the investigation period of the complaint is normal and therefore proportionate. The police, according to their attorney, have prematurely initiated criminal prosecutions, whether out of ignorance or intent, forgetting the evidence that is in favor of the accused. They also see no damage to the European Union's financial interests. Member Jaroslav Faltýnek said that he would ask the Chamber of Deputies to give their consent to his prosecution. Member Jaroslav Faltýnek does not understand the criminal structure of the police, as his actions, which he considers normal in the context of commercial relations, ended in the matter long before the subsidy challenge was announced at all. It rejected the fiction and purpose of the transfer of shares and the absence of shares. In the case of their price, it stressed the procedure on the basis of an expert opinion. He also stated that OLAF's report does not refer to him as a suspect. Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek's legal representative introduced the mandate and immune committee to the essential circumstances which he also applied in his complaint against the resolution on the initiation of criminal prosecution. This has not yet been decided. According to the lawyer, the investigation period of the complaint is normal and therefore proportionate. According to the legal representative, there were two undue delays in the investigation, both in 2016 and in 2017. The rapporteur's conclusions: Acts relating to the accusations made by both Members have taken place before obtaining the parliamentary mandates of Members during the previous term of office. These acts are not related to the exercise of the mandate of Members. The Chamber of Deputies decided on a request for consent to initiate the criminal prosecution of Members during the previous term of office. The reason for the suspension of the criminal proceedings is the immunity of both Members who were granted in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies in autumn 2017. The procedural immunity shall protect Members in the exercise of their mandate, in particular, from the purposeful or power-driven intervention of executive powers. The purpose is to protect the free exercise of the mandate in accordance with the Constitution. Request for consent The Chamber of Deputies for the prosecution of a Member must include the definition of the act at issue and its assumptions for legal qualifications. These elements of the application shall be included in the case of both Members. Investigation of the mandate and immunity committee. This is now a very early phase of non-public criminal proceedings. This corresponds to the extent of the findings collected, evidence and evidence of guilt. This is not a statement of guilt and punishment. It's a matter of court. The question is whether or not to continue the investigation of the Police of the Czech Republic or to be interrupted by the termination of the mandate of both Members. The police of the Czech Republic did not allow an introduction to the investigation file on the premises of the Chamber of Deputies. OLAF's report was not available in an officially certified translation into the Czech language. Due to the speed of the committee inquiry, Members have become familiar with the investigation file at the police headquarters. In the case of the OLAF report, they have either used the English report to the police or the rapporteur's information communicated during the committee meeting. These procedural circumstances cannot affect the results of the committee's investigation and the resolutions adopted, although they have left the practice to date, both in enabling the committee members to consult the file, when refusing to send a copy of the file was rather an exception in the previous terms of office of the House, and to become familiar with the documents only in the Czech language. Some of the findings obtained by the Committee at the hearing of the investigator and the prosecutor and both Members are not decisive for the application of the immunity of Members, but legitimately fall within the rights of defence accused. However, this is a matter of further criminal proceedings, not of the committee. The Committee cannot also anticipate the initiation of further investigations, for example in administrative or disciplinary proceedings against other persons, nor can it definitively comment on whether there are grounds for initiating such proceedings. [[9.30 hours]] So many news reports, and now let me introduce you to the resolutions adopted by the Committee on 16 January 2018. Resolution No 40 of 16 January 2018. The mandate and immunity committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after the opening words of Mr Stanislav Grospič's committee chair, after hearing Mr Andrej Babiš's observations, Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek's report by Mr Kateřina Valachová and after the debate, recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree to prosecute Mr . Andrej Babiš, born September 2, 1954. Second, resolution No. 41 of 16 January 2018. The mandate and immunity committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after the opening words of Mr Stanislav Grospič's committee chair, after hearing Mr Andrej Babiš's observations, Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek's Member, after Mr Kateřina Valachová's report and after the debate, recommends: The Chamber of Deputies shall give its consent to the criminal prosecution of Mr . Jaroslav Faltýnek, born April 28, 1962. Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. Thank you for taking your place at the rapporteur's table, where you will follow with me the general debate that I am initiating. Let me just read a few apologies. Mr Josef Kott apologizes from 1:00 p.m. for personal reasons. Mr Jan Volný apologizes for health reasons throughout today's day. Before the debate began, I received two written applications with priority rights. Mr. Andrej Babiš will be the first to speak. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u6	Thank you for the floor. Hello, everyone. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is not intended to change your mind. I know you'll vote by... politically. Because if you listen to all the arguments and use common sense, you wouldn't vote for it. But I have made it clear that I will vote in favour. I voted this way for the first time, and I don't understand the speculation that we were trying to do anything the other way around. The problem with this entire lying political case is that I joined politics. And maybe it was because of this case that I regretted it. However, I will not give up. That would be awfully good for people and our chosen political opponents. I joined politics because I wanted to return to our country in some way because I succeeded here, that I built a company here, and I went into politics because I think there should be people in politics who are not living with politics and who, on the other hand, want to fundamentally change our country and get it where it belongs. Return it to the period of the First Republic. The Masaryk era, when we were among the most advanced countries in Europe and the world. I've devoted maximum energy to this project all the time, deployment. And the fact that we -- our movement, which everyone laughed at at the beginning, succeeded several times, that's why we have the Tea Nest here. That's why it's a political prosecution. And I just want to tell everyone that we're gonna keep fighting this fight. We were in the government, and part of the clientelism and the corruption was prevented. But, of course, we still have corruption on the table here, the abuse of state companies, clientelism, etc. Our political competitors, mostly from parties, which actually give us the state of our country, what it is, de facto they did not have any political issues, no meaningful programme of their own to compete with us, politically competing with. They actually had a coordinated simple program together and it was throwing dirt at our movement and especially on my person. It started in 2012. And, of course, part of this tactic is a total lie and media-based and politically abused pseudo-cause of the stork's nest, which is why I'm actually standing here in the House's attic again. I felt like we've had nothing else since the election. I mean, remember how it started. What did we do after the election? Well, a mandate and an immune committee. Why? Well, because of čapí's nest. That's where the people who never sat there signed up. At first, there was some information that we wanted the chairman. Nobody wanted it. After we control it. Then we should have even dealt with some parties and movements so they wouldn't turn us in. All nonsense, of course. But that's what this sněmovna is about. That's the main topic. This is perhaps the biggest topic in the history of political parties. And why is that politically motivated? Try to think now. In fact, we have already voted in favour of the issue once - me and my colleague Faltýnek - and the question now is: Why did the police request our release at the latest possible date, just before the elections, in August 2017? Why did she ask if it wasn't a political assignment and an order? And that's mostly a mob order. The mob that stole billions here in cooperation with selected politicians. After all, the police knew that the YES movement would probably get 5% in the elections. We got almost 30. So they knew that Babiš and Faltýnek would be MPs and that they would have to ask for extradition again. And that is a clear argument. A clear argument that it was politicised, that it was intended to influence parliamentary elections. And it affected it. According to our estimates and thanks to this false case, we lost 10 percent of our preferences Yes. Massage media, mainly Czech TV, from morning to evening Capi nest. Interestingly, in 2016, the chief godfather, a well-known lawyer of the former Prime Minister, walked around Prague, the one who did billions of jobs here, who privatized OKD and took out the miners' apartments, says that Babiš is going to prison. Some Members were basically telling ours - that was 2016, we didn't understand what they were talking about. So it's actually gone so far, this mob's getting research done. People came to us in 2017 and said: You know what, they're doing research on what happens when Babiš gets charged. How the public will react. [[9.40 hours]] Of course he is, and I am convinced of that, and I will, of course, get to that, and to Olaf, that it is politics. It's politics. We live in a country where you can order prosecution and order likely to put someone in jail. Last year, 1,150 people were prosecuted and freed, thanks to God's independent courts, to whom we paid compensation as the state of 80 million. And now she's been acquitted in court by Mrs. Vitásková, who was charged in 2013, and the solar mafia that ordered the prosecution of Mrs. Vitásková, and there's a connection with the mob that ordered my prosecution, the Faltýnek, my family, well, five years of total destruction of this person and family. Five years. She was even sentenced to 8.5 years, and now she's acquitted by the court. So let's just think about how it's even possible that this is how it works for us. And this case, not only was it supposed to affect our preferences, it didn't quite work out, but, of course, it's supposed to affect the emergence of a new government. I mean, it's so everyone can say, "Babiš is being prosecuted, he can't be Prime Minister." He can't. No presumption of innocence. It also affects the presidential election because one of the candidates says he won't assign Babiš if he's president. So this case is a major case that influenced parliamentary elections, affects the current political situation, and even the presidential election. So I would return to the essence. I am quite sure that, in connection with the subsidies on the farm of Capi Nest, none of the accused persons committed any crime. Why? Well, I'll tell you the main arguments now. According to the police, I was supposed to own 20 shares of the farm. That's total nonsense. And according to the same police resolution, the shares didn't exist. Do you understand that? I was supposed to own stock, and the police say they didn't exist. And the police say the stock sales were fictional. But the police have the original contract, the original transfer protocol, a copy of the shares from the notary and proof of cashless payment of the purchase price. That, of course, at the first request. They didn't actually provide the evidence in our favor. And there's no evidence in our favor. Jaroslav Faltýnek is prosecuted for selling shares. This is unbelievable. He sold the shares and the purchase price of the shares was determined by an expert opinion, so that's OK, right? And according to the police expert opinion, it was the usual price. So I don't understand what this is about. Absolutely absurd filthy is my wife's accusation! Monika Babišová owned the stock of the Capi Nest farm for six weeks - and now concentrate. She sold the shares to her brother because the family said it wouldn't be four pieces, it would be five pieces. And she sold them at a time when the farm didn't ask for a grant, nor was she ever a shareholder when the farm received a grant, nor was she interrogated, the police didn't invite her. She wasn't in interrogation, she sold the shares to her brother at a time when the farm didn't have a grant, or she didn't ask for a grant. Well, that's another absurdity, yes. So these are things you don't understand. And my guilt is actually being brought by the police department because the other charges are either my family members or their relatives, or in the past, they had a professional relationship with the Agrofert Group. It is absolutely unbelievable that I began to organise a grant fraud in 2006, when nothing was yet known about the relevant operational programme. The operational program was announced 20. 12. 2007 and the police say that I organized something in 2006 because I probably knew there was going to be a program. Unbelievable nonsense. So there's no direct or indirect evidence in the file that I've committed any criminal activity. And, of course, the first request was total bullshit. So we expected that if we got into the file, there'd be something there. Well, there's nothing. Instead, we actually hear a former elite police officer from the anti-Mafia unit of Jiří Komárek, who says in the court that the investigator of this special purpose pseudocustomer Pavel Nevtípil was also connected to the Mafia. Well, that's interesting. So I just want to say... And another thing the police are saying is that I asked a colleague of my Faltýnek's to sell the shares of my family to hide my identity, listen carefully, for my own children and my wife. That means my firstborn son's name is Andrej Babiš. And I asked the Faltýnek to hide behind my son Andrej Babiš. Do you understand that? Do you understand that? Well, I don't understand. So these are the absurdities, the nonsense, the incredible things. Let's actually try to review the facts. Here some say that the stork's nest was corruption. I don't know, they probably don't even know what corruption is. Let's do it again. Fifty million is invested in that farm. And the citizens who haven't been there yet, come and see. There are some 40,000 people there every year, thousands of children, tours from schools. It serves the public. Today, a hundred times repeated lie that it's some kind of family home. No, it serves the public. This farm employs 68 people, took - focus - 72 million into public budgets. If Agrofert hadn't taken over because he guaranteed the loan, she'd have gone bankrupt. So 72 million to the budgets. It helped the region. When the famous moderator was on Czech television, and I don't know who the ROP Central Bohemia actually gave the 17 billion, the ROP Central Bohemia then said: No farm Capi nest. That's probably our best project, actually. They posted it on the web, and in 2010 they boasted about the Chapi Nest farm, which everyone checked. I mean, the application was for Governor Bendl, Mrs. Langšádlová was there, as they approved, and then Mr. Rath came by and wanted to cancel everything, the projects. Well, he didn't cancel because it was okay. And then there was another checkup from the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission, nine times it was checked and no one ever said there was a problem. Never! So one more time. Fifty billion is there, there's 960... Fifty million, sorry. There's 960 million. Nobody got rich. The farm, of course, hasn't made any economic money yet, but it does, of course, pay taxes for employees. And on the other hand, remember the subsidy programs where tens of billions were stolen. And who's saving those? They don't broadcast those on TV. [[9.50 hours]] So what I'm saying is, when someone's talking about corruption, what kind of corruption? What corruption? There was no corruption! And there was no scam. Yeah, some people are telling me to pay back $50 million to get the company back $50 million. If you remember, I said yes back then. To show that it wasn't really about the money. Yes, my family wanted to do business. And why wouldn't she? Why? That's forbidden, or what's the problem? That I should pay back $50 million to make him a room. And why should we do that? To confirm any guilt? Nothing happened! Nothing happened. So if Mrs Valachová was speaking here that the investigator was saying about the usual practice, even the prosecutor - well, please God if this is the usual practice. So I think if you've had a good sense of what I've been saying, everyone has to confirm that it's nonsense. And I personally consider it a grave insult not only to my person, but also to my family and my former colleagues involved in this criminal case. It's a mockery. A mockery not only to you, honourable Members, but to all the citizens of this country. A mockery. This case has become a megacussion, a lie. The solar mafia that ordered the prosecution of Mrs. Vitásková - let me just remind you that every year we pay 30 billion for solariums and it will cost us a thousand billion. Just to remember a little bit of numbers. I'd like to get back to the police position. According to the police, the claim for a subsidy contained the following false information: the alleged false length of the loan. This police claim is false, because at the latest at the time of the signing of the subsidy agreement, the provider of ROP Central Bohemia - which, of course, now decides politically, because there is a political composition such as it is - received a copy of the loan agreement with an explicitly stated length of credit. So the ROP knew that Agrofert was a strategic partner and that Agrofert guaranteed the loan. They knew it well. Then the police are accusing requests of allegedly false economic results for ten years in advance. So I'm sure there's a lot of entrepreneurs here, so from an economic point of view, it's an absurd statement, because no business operator in a market environment is able to estimate its economic results in detail, let alone ten years. Absolute nonsense. Then there's supposedly a false statement about a small and medium-sized enterprise. The untruth of the statement is imported by the investigator from the above described so-called. supposedly fictitious share transfers. Since the fictitiousness of commercial transactions is excluded from the scope of all available evidence, this also refutes the allegations made by the police regarding the falseness of the SME statement. Now I would like to comment on Olaf. This OLAF, it's a spell, OLAF, it's a sensation, Bakalův's paper, we're still on OLAF. Independent OLAF. So I'd like to say something about olaf. For example, here we take: OLAF is investigating Volkswagen. This started in about 2015. At the same time as the stork's nest. And Volkswagen asked the European Investment Bank for 400 million. EUR, loan. And basically OLAF ended the investigation at the end of July, doesn't want to express what's actually in the report, that's what he refuses. On 31 July, Politico announced that OLAF had concluded that Volkswagen had received a loan from the European Investment Bank through fraud. And why does he think that? Well, because OLAF claims that the European Investment Bank was misled by Volkswagen. And you know why? Because those loan applications didn't say they cheated with emissions. Do you understand that? So someone's asking for credit, and until OLAF's request, he says he should have written that he cheated with emissions. Well, I don't know, I don't really feel like it. And what does the head of the European Investment Bank Werner Hoyer say? And by the way, a lot of MEPs are criticizing. The President of the European Investment Bank says: we are very disappointed with what OLAF claims. That the EIB was misled by Volkswagen about using the loan, says Mr Hoyer. So I have to laugh when Bakalův's paper here said what a great organization it is and how it's all independent. How it all works. I would just remind you that even Ingeborg Grässle criticized OLAF. This is the representative of the CDU, they are actually folklore, working with our biggest EU informant, of course, Mr Zdechovský for KDU-ČSL. And, of course, the case was also politicized in Europe. And what did Ingeborg Grässle say, calling for OLAFU reform, which told me in Berlin: Mr Babiš, the Czech Republic needs you! You have to stay in politics! Mrs. Grässle for CDU! [[He's talking very strongly. Resurrection, applause in the right side of the hall.]] She said I brought her flowers! She had tea, I had coffee. She said you have to stay! You have a conflict of interest, but it doesn't matter, the Czech Republic needs it. So, Mrs Ingeborg Grässle, this is a CDU KDU-ČSL outpost in Brussels, calling for olaf's reform. It draws attention to the shortcomings, the amateurism of this office. OLAF Police is not a solid structure. Then I think I'll please my colleague Okamura here. Marine Le Pen filed charges against the head of Olaf. He was accused of being investigated by Leftist Martin Schulz in order to discredit Eurosceptics. Well, the Mrs. Grässle who's attacking me and who's grateful to give these interviews to various servers that we don't actually know who's funding, so she says that OLAF -- and now it's good for her, well, with Babiš there, OLAF, that's good, isn't it? José Bové, a French MEP, says: Everything we know about OLAF's investigative methods shows that Mr Kessler - this is the former head of OLAF, who is actually being investigated himself because he was investigating some alleged bribe for the Maltese Commissioner from the tobacco company for 1.5 billion, so the corruption scandal was being investigated not very successfully by the head of OLAF Giovanni Kessler. So the Olaf report did not provide any compelling evidence of Mr.'s direct involvement. [[unintelligible]] And now he's actually taken advantage of that position... So I would just like to remind the journalists of Bakalův's media that there are other reports of olaf. And now I would like to inform you that on 15 January 2018, my former IMOBA sent a letter, of course, a complaint has already gone to the Ombudsman and an action by one of the OLAF investigations concerned, an action against the European Court of Justice. And my former firm here says: To the hands of the European rights protector, Mrs Emila Reilla, to the hands of the President of the European Commission, Mr Jean-Claude Juncker, and to the hands of the President-in-Office, the new director of Olaf, a dopis. The letter was published, and I'm not going to read it whole, but I'm just going to read you some parts. [[10.00 hours]] The first such part is: could IMOBA be investigated by OLAF? IMOBA first marvels at this and asks for an explanation from Mr Olaf in a copy to the Commission of how it could have been investigated in the context of the investigation for fraud and damage to the European Union's financial interests when criminal liability of legal persons has not yet been established in the Czech Republic at the time of the alleged commission of these offences - for example. And so on. Was OLAF competent to investigate? - Part two. Another crucial question is what OLAF has given its authority to open an investigation. [[competence]] According to the so-called the principle of subsidiarity enshrined in EU primary law can only be implemented by European institutions if the intended outcome cannot be better achieved at Member State level. However, it is widely known that the same thing is also actively investigated by the Police of the Czech Republic. OLAF does not have any powers that go beyond the Police of the Czech Republic in relation to the matter. Did olaf investigators not know that this pseudocussion concerns only the territory of the Czech Republic and does not involve the jurisdiction of any other Member State? Was OLAF unaware that the Police of the Czech Republic had much wider powers in the territory of the Czech Republic than he did and that it was only the Police of the Czech Republic that could materialize the results of its investigation in the criminal prosecution of individual perpetrators? Next part. Why did OLAF allow itself - now listen carefully - to influence third parties in the investigation? The fact that OLAF's legal qualifications seem to have been influenced by the audit report drawn up on the order of the Good Government Reporter, founded by Ing, also raises extraordinary doubts. [[based]] Lukáš Wagenknecht - it is also part of the mafia with one former disdained journalist, now he has joined - who has long and unjustly tried to defamate the project in the Czech public space, probably on a political order. In our view, it is most likely the same person who made an anonymous notification to OLAF on the basis of which the investigation was initiated. IMOBA is known that OLAF's audit report - and now listen carefully - before it was published by the Reporter magazine, and almost half a year before the investigation was concluded, has copied some of its content into a document for the Police of the Czech Republic stating, even before the completion of the evidence, its premature conclusions from the investigation! Why did OLAF cooperate in the investigation with persons who had nothing to do with the investigation, except, perhaps, the intention to damage the project and Mr Andrej Babiš in the Czech media space? How could OLAF conduct an investigation objectively, impartially and in accordance with the constitutional principle of presumption of innocence, if it had established its view on the matter before the end of the evidence? Well, the investigator who was here, she was pretty clear on that. All she cared about was Sting's concert, she was in a hurry - now I don't have time, I'm going to Sting. Yeah? How could he know that? It is clear that if OLAF drew definitive conclusions from the investigation shortly after its initiation, any further claims or evidence submitted by IMOBA or by other interested parties could hardly have any effect on OLAF's conclusions, since they were necessarily treated in such a way as to fall within the premature conclusions of OLAF investigators. - So in short, Mr. former Deputy Wagenknecht, who went to Brussels to report the Czech Republic when he was still at the Ministry, and then he turned me in, so he wrote it down, and probably the police and OLAF copied it nicely. But most importantly, he acts as an expert here in public space. Next part. Why has the right to defend IMOBA been consistently violated? It is also worrying how OLAF has flagrantly violated IMOBA's constitutionally enshrined rights of defence throughout the investigation. It may be asked why IMOBA has never been notified, nor what offence OLAF is investigating, nor what action the company should have committed. [[criminal offence]] [[The Commission shall be]] Moreover, contrary to European law, IMOBA could never properly comment on all the facts relating to it in the context of the investigation, since some documents, e.g. expert reports, provided only fragments or purposefully selected fragments, which could not be understood or examined without knowledge of the questions, the materials used and the relevant context. Next part. Why does OLAF ex post conceive of rules on the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises? Even if we look away from OLAF's above procedural errors, its substantive assessment is also completely incorrect, particularly on the central issue of the whole investigation, whether or not the Farm was the Nest, the legal predecessor of IMOBA, at the time of the application for a grant for a project by a small and medium-sized enterprise. The relevant source for the analysis of this matter can only be the grant terms and the grant contract on the basis of which the grant for the project was granted. Both of these documents refer to the Commission's recommendation on the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, according to which the wording of which is absolutely excluded from the definition of a large enterprise linked to Agrofert. However, OLAF has deliberately developed these clear and obvious rules, using the subsequent case-law of the EU Court of Justice and the European Commission's 2014 to 2016, i.e. documents which have been produced only a few years after the grant was granted. Did OLAF ask whether the retroactive application of these amendments is admissible if, as a result, it leads to the extension of the conditions of criminal liability of those who requested and in good faith relied on the rules in force at the time? How were they to predict that later there would be a factual denial of the wording of the Commission's recommendation, based not only on the request of the Stork Nest Farm but also on a number of other applicants for subsidies at the time? - Yes, folks. In Bohemia we had 126 subsidies with anonymous owners for 3.6 billion. and in Europe we have thousands of chap nests - in Germany, in France, everywhere! That's the end of the line. In view of the fact that the final report has not dealt with the fundamental issues mentioned above in substance, Imoba has no choice but to address the request for clarification directly to you as the highest representative of OLAF. If these questions are not explained without undue delay, there is a risk, according to IMOBA, that the whole EU subsidy system will be paralyzed, since if the applicants for a subsidy cannot rely on the wording of the rules in force and effective at the time of the application for a subsidy, they must continue to count on their subsequent and unpredictable changes and, following their lack of respect, their criminal liability cannot be expected to continue to be taken over voluntarily. So it's for OLAF. In addition to OLAF, I would remind you that in 2009, Senator Dernerová turned to OLAF. She signed it normally. Of course, the stork's nest was anonymous. That is why when someone sent an anonymous letter to Brussels, anonymously, and talking about fraud, OLAF, of course, argued that he was investigating fraud. And, of course, that's the dirty thing that some people said that Olaf's report said it was a scam. Well, of course it isn't! When they have a box of reporting the fraud and irregularities system, so clearly it's just being used medialy again and it's still saying to people, well, that Babiš has done a scam. Of course it's a lie. And Mrs. Dernerová wrote to Olafa in 2009, and she normally signed it as a senator that there were over-the-counter devices in Regional Health. There were machines for 500 miles, sold 200 miles, so I guess someone stole 200 miles. And at the end of 2012, three and a half years later, he's writing to Olaf's boss Kessler again, who was in the affair, so what's going to happen? And OLAF didn't react at all. And OLAF left this case with the Czech authorities. And why was the stork's nest that was anonymous so politicized? [[10.10 hours]] That is why, in the European Union too, the Cape Nest has been the subject of a political struggle. Political struggle! Because we're making the impression that OLAF is so objective. That's very true. That's been going on here, a campaign in Bakalův's media, a long time. The first page over and over again. Yes. And, of course, that Mrs. Grössle who criticized, but now she's saying, that's awful, that Babiš, she doesn't belong in that politics anymore. So I just want to say that it's clear that it's a political case. That it's a case that has a fundamental impact on our policies, damage the movement, damage my name, attack my family. Unbelievable crap! If they want to destroy me, I understand. But that they touch my family, my children, my wife - unbelievable! Invented filthy things! So all I'm saying is that-- and I'm saying it again-- I just wish it didn't happen to you all so that someone doesn't order your prosecution, your family and your children's prosecution, because it's unbelievable. Unbelievable. Therefore, I repeat that I will vote in favour of the issue, and I firmly believe that people have heard my speech, they have perceived the arguments. And we certainly won't give up. We're gonna fight for the truth because it's a lie. And we will fight. That is why the letter went to the President of the Commission and to the head of Olaf. So I wonder what he's going to say about it. And I firmly believe that the truth will prevail. Of course, it's about me being damaged. Come on, Vitásková's been going after these courts for five years. They ruined her life. Yes. And that's the target. That's the goal - to eliminate me, our movement, to stop me from negotiating as Prime Minister. Yes, some parties say that, we can't do that with him. So I'm just gonna ask you to think about what I said here. And everything I said can be proven. Those are the facts. Not the stuff you read in the papers and heard on TV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u7	I thank the President and now, before we get to another written application with priority rights, I have two factual points here. First, Mr. Mr. Veselý. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'll be two minutes. Dear colleagues, Dear Government, Prime Minister, I must confess that I will vote in favour of the issue. But Prime Minister, don't take this personally. I don't know you, I don't have an emotional relationship with you. You hardly know me either. And it's really nothing personal. I'm a professional lawyer. I usually represent people in my profession who are suspected of committing a crime. In the vast majority, they feel innocent, just like you. And the good news for you is that in the vast majority of cases, the law enforcement authorities will not actually prove guilty and will end well for them. But if I didn't turn you in today, virtually. Not me, my colleagues, if we don't release you, you'll still be suspected of committing a crime all the time. And I believe that's not what you want. You must know that stuff from your attorneys. But if you're released, it could end up with the police. It can stop the D.A. It can, of course, stop the trial, which is the most common case. And I believe that it is also your concern that your name be cleared, and therefore, in accordance with what you will do, I will also vote in favour of the issue. And it's really nothing personal, and it's nothing political. Trust me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u9	I thank the honourable Member and now Mr Blažek with a point of fact. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u10	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, dear Chairman of the YES movement, your speech was as if you were completely new in politics. But if you say that it is possible to order prosecution in this country - you have been responsible for police and prosecutors and for the judiciary for four years now. So what did you do to make this impossible? Nothing. You even control the resorts further and you really have the courage to say here that it's possible to order a prosecution. But you haven't done anything for four years here, even though you've often been warned by me that sometimes things happen that shouldn't happen. You say Mrs. Vitásková's name here today. Well, who warned you repeatedly that it wasn't normal for 20 cops to go to the office for one piece of paper? That this whole prosecution thing is weird? Me. And who's doing all this again? Well, the High Attorney General in Olomouc can make another mark for ruining another life. Who's been protecting them all this time? Your movement! Because, among other things, the Olomoučák were prosecuted by Nečas, Nečasová and Nagyová and many others, so you let them ravage. If you let one go, the others will only learn from them, and they can cross that line more and more. To Mr. Komárek and citations of what he said. Mr. Komárek, if I'm not mistaken, what he said in court, he said as a defendant, which means in other words, he could legally not be telling the truth. That means quoting some of his statements here - they don't have the meaning you want it to have. And I had a personal experience with Mr. Komárek. Mr. Komárek has to his core the police thinking of the Javertian type. That means if he sees two people talking about something, he's definitely conspiring. If Mr. Komárek saw me with Mr. Faltýnek, he'd be perfectly willing to assume that we were just selling ČEZ to a friend of ours. That's Mr. Komárek mind. I'm bohužel so. [[Attention on time.]] And we must distinguish between Mr. Šlachta, who is often based on evidence, and Mr. Komárek, who has never had proof of any media claims.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u11	Thank you. Now the rapporteur wanted to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u12	Mr President, Dear Government, honourable Members, I am protesting the attacks on the prosecutors and I hope that you do not intend to continue this, through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u13	Thank you. Now with de facto Mr Marek Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u14	Mr President, my dear colleagues, my dear fellow Members, Prime Minister Babiš mentioned the name of MEP Tomáš Zdechovský here. I would like to put the rumors that have been said here to the right, as it is. Tomas Zdechovský is a member of the European Parliament's Supervisory Committee, which is why he has called on and raised a question about Commissioner Günther Oettinger in the course of this committee's discussions. This committee met at its meeting, which was planned more than six months in advance. I quote: "It is not really any special enforcement of this case on the committee's agenda." And now the important thing - I quoted MEP Martina Dlabajová for the YES movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u15	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Stanjura, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u16	Thank you for the floor. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I want to respond to the rapporteur's speech. Be specific. Who attacked the D.A. and the D.A.? Wasn't it the prime minister of this country who said there was a way to order prosecution in this country? How many times have we heard here and elsewhere from lawyers: the state's attorney is the master of the preparatory procedure. So if you take the specific case mentioned by the Prime Minister, the former President of the ERO, who was the master of the preparatory procedure? Who's to blame for the five years the Prime Minister spoke of? And my colleague, Mr Blažek, just reminded me that he said it a long time ago, that it was all weird. And who was the Minister of Justice who didn't do anything about it? Wasn't it the current Minister of Justice? Wasn't he from the YES movement? How is it possible that the head of the ANO movement will say that criminal prosecutions can be ordered here, and he's had the same Minister of Justice from his movement for four years now? I would expect you to object to this, not to the fact that Pavel Blažek states how it was.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u17	Thank you. I'll give the Prime Minister a priority response. I ask that we stick to the matter of the case, not the state of the police in this country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u18	Thank you. However, I must respond to what Mr Stanjura said. I don't know if he wants to live in a country where the Attorney General stops prosecution. But you're saying that all this time, the Minister of Justice was on this side, and he didn't do anything about it. [[In an elevated voice.]] So what was the Minister of Justice supposed to do about it, sir?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u19	Now, the rapporteur with a short response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u20	Through the President to the President of the ODS. I responded to both contributions, of course. [[Strongly.]] Because I stick to law and I'm impartial.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u21	Thank you. Now with Mr Blažek in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u22	I think the government is responsible for the prosecutor's office. The government answers to the Chamber of Deputies. If in this House you can't even use the floor of a prosecutor because it's an attack on a prosecutor's office, it's absolutely absurd. And if not even the Prime Minister can say the word, then perhaps, Mr Babiš, we are on the same boat for a moment, because of course we can say it, and of course we have the right to comment on the state's work, because it is a repressive component of the state, and it is not possible to comment on the activity. And if I can here, as my colleague Valachová said, attack the Minister of Justice, and I couldn't, if I used that term, attack his subordinate quotes, even if the word is inaccurate, the system, we won't be saying anything here in a minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u23	I'd like to call us to the point again. And now, Mr Stanjure. [[Member Cernochová from her seat repairs to President Stanjura.]] Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u24	Vice-President of the House, don't call us to the point when we're talking. According to the Rules of Procedure, in a factual reminder, you can respond to the speeches of the previous speakers. I think that I and my colleague Blažek, the other Members, should protect their club leaders, we are speaking to the point, because we are responding to the speech that was said first in the debate. First of all. Two. The Minister of Justice put something in my mouth that I didn't say. I didn't say you should have stopped something in a particular case. But you sit here so happy and your Prime Minister says: in the Czech Republic, you can order a criminal prosecution. If you trust your chairman, I always hear that the movement is behind its chairman, so you have to believe that it is. Who has political responsibility for the entire system of prosecutors? Could you repeat that on the microphone? And is this the person who's responsible for ordering prosecution with us, or who's to blame? Or the chairman of your movement is wrong. I think it's either one or the other. Take your pick. If the Chairman of the ANO movement is right, I do not think so, you have been politically responsible for this situation for four years. And you didn't do anything. There you will tell me what you will do to prevent President Babiš from coming and saying in a year's time: after a year since his major speech in January 2018, I must say that criminal prosecutions can continue to be ordered in the Czech Republic. What are you gonna do about it? I didn't ask you to stop any criminal proceedings personally. I ask you how you perceive these sentences, whether you feel responsible or disprove President Babiš, that he is wrong. Who's right? Is he right? Then answer me. Can a prosecution be ordered in the Czech Republic? And if so, who is responsible for this politically?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u25	Before we go any further, I have two apologies. From today, Mr Staněk is excused without giving any reason, and Mrs Levová is excused for working reasons from 9 to 10 o'clock. Thank you. And now President Bartošek has volunteered for me from the hall with priority rights. [[Mr. Birke from the bench points out that he signed up with a point of fact.]] With priority rights? In fact, I have Mr. Birke here first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd ask for some time without anyone telling me I've been talking for a long time. [[President: two minutes.]] Thank you. I'm not in favour of Mr. Prime Minister at the top 10, maybe not even at the top 100, so I'm sure you'll understand that my performance, which is going to be here, isn't gonna be so... [[Mr. Faltynek's reaction from the bench]] Mr Faltýnek, don't yell at me, through Mr President, let me finish the fundamental idea that I will have. I just want to say that what we've heard from the Prime Minister here, I understand him. I experienced the Hradec Králové Region when 300 police officers arrived for two papers a month before the election. They sealed the offices and left tonight and said, "We'll get back to you." So far, no one's heard from anyone, no one's been charged, charged, and so on. I myself, as mayor, spent eight hours interrogating for poisoning half the Republic with arsenic. Tonight, he's just a national sport, whoever sits on the computer tonight, he's gonna write a criminal report, and it's gonna fall on us like this, on everyone we're sitting here, and on all the local politicians that sit and are in this country. What are you wondering? Maybe I'm performing today because I understand the Prime Minister's experience. That it is often into families, into their personal families, that it concerns everyone. And then it's liquidation. And then who's going to notice if in six months, in a year, in three years, there's gonna be a little piece that says, "We're sorry, or it's not true!" No one will notice. [[Strongly.]] The man is destroyed, no one takes a crust from him, he doesn't even say hello, and God forbid, when he still lives in a small village! All of a sudden, they had to look out for me, not even for me, but they basically threw bags of oil at my facade. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I'm almost done. I just want to tell you that it's devastating and crazy what we live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u27	Thank you. Now, then, with Mr Bartošek in fact. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As a matter of fact, Prime Minister, I was also surprised and partially shocked by the fact that you will come out here publicly and say that it is possible to order charges, prosecutions, maybe convictions. My question is, and it's a fair question. You've been a member of the State Security Council for the past four years. If you had this awareness, what did you do? What specific steps did you take? When exactly did you discuss this subject? Who have you assigned to change this situation in the Czech Republic? Who were you talking to? Because it's either that you've known about this situation for a long time, and you've been actively addressing it from your position as vice-premier four years ago, or today you're just using it as an argument that suits you. That's just the way it is. And you also attacked Tomáš Zdechovský, you called him the biggest informer. And I'm telling you, Prime Minister, to apologize. Because if you don't apologize to Tomáš Zdechovský, you'll be a coward to me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u29	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Ondráček, in fact. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, especially colleagues from the so-called Democratic bloc, it is not such a problem that the police or other authorities active in criminal proceedings accuse someone or start prosecution of a particular person. If you ever want, there are such cases, you can ask a number of policemen. But you're scared, you're democratically scared, because if I could work in the GIBS Control Committee, I could prove those cases to you. So, unfortunately, such cases exist in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mr koníček, with the facts. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u32	Mr President, I would just like to clarify what stage you are at right now, because you have given Mr Babiš priority right before the debate is opened, and there has already been a shrink of factual remarks, and they can only be a reaction to a speech in the debate. So the debate has not yet been opened, at least you have given Mr Babiš priority rights. So we are not yet in the debate and this whole debate is outside the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u33	I therefore believe that we are at the beginning of the debate, and I have one more priority application for the debate. Yes, they're applications for the debate. I'll consult. [[Consultation with the organizational field.]] In that case, I open a debate purely for form. I thought it was open when I took over the chair. Now, please, with the de facto Mr Koníček. [[From the diaper: He was already there!]] Sorry. In that case, I have a priority application for a general debate from Mr Faltýnek or President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u34	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I have one request to begin with. It seemed like we were going to act quite constructively, so please don't argue, it's my personal request that we be able to make the vote today, because I'm supposed to go to the hospital for a half-second, and I'd like to make it. So I thank you all for allowing me to express myself in this case, namely the issue of my extradition for prosecution in the so-called "criminal prosecution." Casualty's Nest. I have been here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies for the second time on this matter and I have a certain advantage because I have been able to get acquainted with the content of the criminal file through my lawyer. I can therefore express myself with the knowledge of the matter and, in particular, with the knowledge of the evidence that should exist against me. The aim of my speech is not the ambition to obtain your legal assessment of my criminal liability, I understand that this must be done by law enforcement authorities. However, I want to use this opportunity to think about the huge risk of possible abuse of a police body in such similar cases. By nothing unsubstantiated accusations against me by one particular person representing the function of police authority, my personal and professional life and political life are threatened in a fundamental way. In such a situation, sooner or later, each of you, of us, can be found. At the same time, however, let me tell you at the beginning of my speech that I will raise my hand for my extradition, for two reasons. After all, I've already announced it and, like President Babiš, I did it during the last election period. The first reason is because I didn't do anything illegal, which is why I don't want to hide behind the MP's immunity. I'll use a quote from one of my colleagues from this morning's press conference. I don't know who it was anymore. I think he was a colleague of Farský. I'm not just superhuman. That's what I said last time. And the second reason related to this is my loyalty to my former colleagues from the Board of Directors of ZZN Pelhřimov Zdeňk Kubisek and Mr Platil. Because these are people I personally appreciate, who have worked honestly all my life, and there is something behind them to see, something concrete, and these decent men are also ridiculously accused, and they do not have immunity. So these are my two reasons why I myself will actively vote in favour of my extradition, even though I call this whole case, and on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies I might be able to afford it, and I promised not to say that word on Czech television, I just call it shit. And a big shit! [[A revival in the hall, a round of applause for the members of the YES.]] I apologize for some expressive expressions, but there won't be any more. Perhaps in the quotes of your colleagues from the previous parliamentary term, but I'll get to that. My criminal activity is, according to the resolution on the initiation of the prosecution, which is part of the request for my extradition, in that I was to remove as a helper the obstacle to committing the crime by hiding the real identity of Andrej Babiš for his children - Andrej Babiš, Adriana Bobeková, born Babišová, and then partner Monika Babišová. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think that I or Mr. Babiš are such a fool to come up with such a perfect scam together? [[He laughs and entertains the members of the YES.]] Colleagues and colleagues, all I've done is - and I've committed this - because I've committed hundreds of these things during my professional career, maybe thousands - is a perfectly legal and transparent sale of shares of a business company at a price even higher than the one we ordered, but by the police ordered an opinion, an expert institution made at the request of the police. And that, among other things, is one of the things you don't read in the application that the police are hiding from you. At the same time, the police are accusing me of failing to tender for the sale of these shares for the sale of the shares of a private company. When I was once an explanation witness in this case, I tried in vain to explain to the police officer that a private company does not have to tender, that it is confused with the state company. And that's what I said last time. And it is interesting that the police officer in the charge, in the official charge, states the following - in response to what I said here last time: The police authority further in connection with the public statement - this is meant here in the House - the accused Jaroslav Faltýnek states that under the impression of the public offer he did not mean the implementation of the selection procedure, but he believes that if the statutory body of the company is dealing with the care of a proper economic operator, it should at least make a market survey, such as a public offer to buy the shares of the company. It can never rule out the possibility that it would not receive a higher price offer from another legal or natural person in the event of a public tender. In this way, the shares were sold directly to the designated acquirers, and this also indicates the purpose of all the steps taken. [[He laughs, and so does the members of the YES.]] Friends, I don't want to touch anyone, but this is really funny. Funny! So all I've done is this thing. But a fellow investigator kept other things from him. The police have at their disposal the original share transfer contract, the original transfer protocol, which I signed, and proof of the cash-free payment of the purchase price for the shares. All proven from 2007-2008. That's what he's keeping from you, too, because it proves that nothing was fictional, as he claims in the charge and in the request. [[10.40 hours]] The police say that the sale of the shares was fictional and purely purposeful, if I speak good Czech - I speak more hanácky, so excuse me. But this is a contradiction. Either my behavior was fictional, in other words it wasn't, or it was, of course, purposeful. The police are letting us know that they don't even know what I was really doing. The best way to describe it is by the expression in fairy tales was - it wasn't. I therefore consider it a mockery not only to me, but also to you and basically to the entire rule of law. The police say it's been said a number of times that stocks didn't exist. The file contains a notary's statement, in a police file, pointing out which shares were submitted and which copied them in 2008. So once again, it was-- it wasn't. And once again, the police accentuate it in their request. After all, the police in their resolution claim that the real owner of 20 pieces was Andrej Babiš himself an elder. And in the same document, they claim that the shares didn't exist. Again, it was -- it wasn't. It's a fairy tale again, not an official document. And do you know what the police are saying that I had to know in 2007 that credit fraud was going to happen in 2008? Pretty much a year? That's why... [[A reminder from the diaper.]] Donating. Donation, I'm sorry. Well, because I worked in Agrofert and knew Mr. Babiš. This is how the police deal with the intent, i.e. the subjective side of the crime. Now again, I quote directly from the charge when the quote from page 60 reads: The Police Authority concluded that the accused Faltýnek as the long-time senior manager of Agrofert holding and close associate of the accused Babiš clearly knew about the true purpose of bringing the company out of ZZN Agro Pelhřimov from the structure of Agrofert Group, and he knew for what purpose this company would then be used. - The police commissioner has psychic powers, but he has no evidence of it. You know, everything you've been presented to you by the police is absolute nonsense about me. You may object to me, of course, that in that case you will give me the room to properly cleanse myself and then return to politics. It has been said here several times today, and the debate will probably continue in this spirit, because the debate is always when someone is published. Let's think about the length of criminal proceedings in some cases. They've both fallen here, or they'll fall. I will make two more for example, and this is Mrs Vlasta Parkanová's case and the case of our colleague, Mr Svoboda, present here. I was him this morning, and I thought it was fair, he said I'd talk about him in my performance. What I didn't tell him, and it has nothing to do with my extradition. And I say again, I will actively vote for my release - because it's shit, Mr. Docent! I didn't tell you that I, as Jaroslav Faltýnek, wouldn't vote for your extradition. So, basically, it's impossible for a person in the House's term of office to reach the standard length of criminal proceedings for those four years of his cleansing unless, of course, the prosecutor or the police stop it themselves. In conclusion, I would like one more sentence of the media-shaked non-public report by Olaf, which I had the opportunity to officially get acquainted with. Unfortunately, it wasn't until after the deadline - and we got that deadline from the police - the first meeting we were invited to. That's why we apologized. There was no obstruction, as the journalists were constantly told. Nowhere in this report does it say that I was involved in any fraud. I'm not identified as a person affected, I'm a suspect. So what exactly did the Olaf report say I was supposed to do? It is true that I was invited by OLAF officials in the Czech Republic when they were here as a witness. That's why my name comes up in the report like a lot of other names. Other people who were there. The way I see it, the only reason -- but that's my feeling, I'm not convincing you about it, I just want to say it here. That the only reason the prosecution against me has been completely purposefully initiated is because I was, and so far, I am the first vice president of a movement that has any electoral potential and has won the election. The only reason for the repeated request for my extradition is, of course, to damage the election winners, our movement, relativize the election results through a direct attack on us. This is almost a textbook example of a situation that is to eliminate the Institute of Parliamentary Immunity. And I appeal to you to realise this fact, because otherwise we place all Members under the authority of the executive, the lowest of the elements. [[unintelligible]] Ladies and gentlemen, I've been saying from the beginning that there is nothing, no concrete evidence, that in my dealings with the Chapi Nest case, the criminal liability of my person could be established. Some of you have had the opportunity to get acquainted with the contents of the criminal file, and I would like to ask them to tell us here on the forum if they have found any facts in the investigation file that would create the fault or criminality of my actions. I think that in a democratic state where fundamental constitutional principles apply, a citizen cannot only be prosecuted for being a close associate of another citizen and for holding certain managerial positions in his professional life. I am of the opinion, and I do not, of course, impose it on you, but I am of the opinion that I am without precedent exposed to a police commissioner who wants to prosecute my person without having any - any - relevant evidence. In this context, it has already been said here once, I would like to mention the statistics of persons who are annually compensated for the annulment of the prosecution. This is more than a thousand people a year, and the problem is that it has a growing tendency. Just for your information, in 2011 it was 718 cases, in 2014 826 and for 2017 1, 263 payments to people who were unfairly prosecuted or convicted. And the annual amount, which is paid to these people as a direct substitute for lost earnings or defense costs, is moving, and somewhere around CZK 80 million is being satisfied. I have some specific examples here, but there's no point in stalling. I'm only gonna say one thing. I remember that number in my head. Věra Jourová, but I'll get to her at the end of my performance. If I'm not mistaken, she got unfairly prosecuted, and I feel CZK 2.8 million - of our taxes - for being suspected of accepting a bribe! From our taxes. That wasn't paid by any cop who made a mistake, or someone else who was supposed to be watching him, but we paid for it, folks! We all, citizens of the Czech Republic, from our taxes. [[10.50 hours]] If the cost of these prosecutions has not been spent on the part of the state or on the part of those who have been prosecuted, I must ask whether the State has actually done everything in its power to prevent the destruction of their personalities in personal and professional life. Which is also happening in my case, but I'm taking it pretty well so far. I'm pretty good at it, but my loved ones are worried about me, even though every day I tell them it's all a fake case -- and here again, the name comes in handy, or the expressive term that I won't use, the fake case of a police officer to discredit me, harm me, degenerate me and make me a criminal. And he's doing quite well, as I see it on the street from the reactions of people and in the store, but it's like fifty-fifty, 50 percent says I'm a criminal and 50 percent says I'm to endure and we fight on. The question is whether the personal responsibility of the persons who caused this situation should be derived in such cases, e.g. an additional examination of their procedures and, in the event of a breach of obligations in the performance of their duties, by applying compensation for damage caused by the State. Mrs Vitásková's example has already been mentioned here by the President, and such a situation can, of course, be met by all of us. I believe that in a democratic society, the criminalisation of selected persons must not become a regular and acceptable means of political struggle, and I will allow myself to express faith, perhaps naive, in the restoration of all democratic mechanisms and the enforcement of justice and justice. And now allow me, colleagues, in response - I did not originally plan this and do not take it as a delay, I hope that we will be able to make the vote - in response to the press conferences of individual clubs this morning, when I think it was TOP 09, calling for us not to delay for long, to discuss that everything is clear. I'm gonna make this easy for us, and I'm gonna do a little history, because there are two-thirds of the new MPs, especially the pirát. Especially the pirát. Yes, and I quote a few reactions and performances from the tape screen when our former colleagues, namely Vlasta Parkanová, Mr. Docent Svoboda and Mrs. Kailová, went out. However, I will start of course, and I married today - he here is not President Kalousek unfortunately, but that does not matter at all - I took the blue book, but I will not quote from it today because it is widely known and it is a book published by the Foundation Fund against Corruption, which evaluates twenty years of work in Mirek Kalousek's policy. We both know the book very well. And I'm just focusing on his performance today, and not only on his performance in the House, of course. But I am, and I am very sorry about this, the speeches, the TOP 09 through Mr President, are very long. It's an hour, it's a long time. And I'll cut them short. Forgive me. So the 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies 11. 7. 2012. I will leave out about fifteen paragraphs; this is the opinion of the Minister of Finance of the Czech Republic, Miroslav Kalousek: "Now allow me to express myself very briefly in two areas of the present point. It's the issue point of Vlasta Parkanová. If you allow me, and I understand, if some of you do not agree with me, I will allow myself to divide those who will vote in favour of Mrs Parkanová's extradition into two groups. Those who believe that parliamentary immunity no longer belongs to the 21st century, that it should not exist more than 20 years after the coup, that we should so trust the judicial system and the system of law enforcement authorities, that we should not be afraid that one or the legislator will be deliberately bullied by the authorities involved in criminal proceedings asking for its extradition. I don't understand Vice-President Zaorálek when he here, as an intellectual, says that immunity is to prevent executive power from binding legislative power. I do not know how this can be done other than by requesting the extradition of one or the other Member from the law enforcement authorities. That's the point of criminal immunity. There's no other way to do that. That's what we're discussing. What other shackles you have in your dreams, Mr Vice-President, I wouldn't dare think about that. But this is the only institute. The law enforcement authorities shall request the extradition of a Member. There are either truths in that request, or there are objective untruths. Depending on whether there are truths or at least doubts, the House issues. If there are objective untruths, completely biased and conclusive untruths, the House should at least consider whether this is a purposeful bullying. However, those who do not believe at all in the institute of parliamentary immunity and say that if the police are to this extent mistaken or committed, then some follow-up will be effective and corrective enough, so let's cancel the immunity, so let's give Parkanová away, I understand. But then there is a second group that believes - and I admit that up to this day I also felt - that although immunity should only be limited to the exercise of the mandate, it should still exist not as a privilege, but as a necessary tool for the exercise of the profession to ensure independence. If the Constitutional Court says, and I allow myself to argue that the stability of judicial salaries is a necessary tool to ensure judicial independence, then immunity, even during the term of office, cannot, in the opinion that I had until today, be regarded as a privilege, something that the legislators do not have against normal citizens, but as a necessary instrument of independence, so that any policeman cannot invent any nonsense and purposefully bully and professionally disqualify politics. Because, unlike another job, and we all know it well, the extradition request itself, the statement of accusations is already professionally disqualifying and disabling this policy and tying its hands, unlike other professions, where even after the statement of accusations you can continue to do the profession." The plug - I'm not knocked out. See ya. "Honestly, those who think this, what I thought until today, and yet they will vote in favour of the Vlasta Parkanová edition, so they must be compared to their conscience - we each have our conscience - that they will support objective truths, and there are not enough of them, I do not want to repeat them. The Vice-President has said many times - she will support the objective untruths in this request." [[unintelligible]] And so on and so forth. I'm skipping four sides. Kalousek continues: "In 13 years of my parliamentary practice, I do not remember requests for extradition, which would be more senseless, more stupid, where it would be more untrue. You all even know that. If anyone knows absolutely 100%, then the chairman of Social Democracy Sobotka, who is signed more often than I am under the expert opinions of the Ministry of Finance, says the same thing that Vice-President Parkanová has quoted here many times. We all know that this request is nonsense, more stupidity will not land on our desk until the end of this term. And if we hand over Vice-President Parkanová to prosecute, then we must release all of them. Tomorrow we will bring in a request for the release of Milan Šťovíček, because he failed to fulfil his legal obligation to come in a bow tie, came in a tie. And we'll say, yeah, what if he had a legal obligation, we can't talk investigators into it. We're gonna šťovíček over the posse so the independent court can decide. And, of course, on this occasion, we will invite him to serve as chairman of the environmental committee, because he cannot represent her as a prosecuted MP who came in a tie instead of a bow tie. And in this situation, we are." [[11.00 hours]] I'm still quoting my colleague Kalousek. I'm sorry, it's very, very long. I'm cutting it short as I can. I'm skipping eight paragraphs again. "You see, I am elected to the Chamber of Deputies as one of you. As a program, for the ten-values that I helped to formulate together, and I consider it my duty to speak up whenever injustice and injustice occur. Not only the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, but anyone where we are absolutely confident about it and where I can point to a line that is a lie and say: that is a lie. That's my duty. And I am convinced that my duty to shout is the louder the injustice is greater and the more absurd the injustice. If we accept this direct aspect, I'm still very quiet, please. I should scream much more, and not only because it concerns a respectable lady I've known for 20 years and for whom I put my hand in the fire, both hands in the fire, that she's never done anything criminal in her life, but not even dishonest. It's just my duty, I'm obliged to work this way. Do not be silenced by dirty slanders such as those mentioned by President John in ČT24 or brought to the attention of Vice-President Klasnová or Vice-President Zaorálek." And so on and so on and so forth. "In the last week, I was twice the target of two outrageous provocations of aesthebacus character. Both were published in Respekt weekly. On Tuesday, today is Wednesday, so on Tuesday night, or Monday night, the editor of this weekly, Mr. Kundra exhibated an hour on the public media screen to dramatically portray a secret meeting at the Kalouskův Emissary Anti-Corruption Police, who met with anti-corruption officers to influence the investigation. No one knew who met, where, when and with, but everyone knew the devil was Kalousek. And that guy put it on that screen for an hour with a serious face. If only we could make a joke. It was so stupid and so unsustainable that the next day, the head of the anti-corruption office, Martinec himself, blew it and denied that such a meeting would be, and denied that it would be investigated, that no such thing would happen. So the Aesthebacian rumor had a life less than 24 hours. The second aesthetic rumor is about a week older, which is that I was supposed to be threatening the investigators by phone. It barely appeared in Respekt, so the silence blizzard unleashed, the strongest opposition party came forward, and so on and so on and so forth. So much for notes that just fell in public space. I repeat, I am a member of this House. The extradition of the Vice-President of the House is a good point, a proper parliamentary public debate, and I reserve the right to express myself freely in this debate, to call it a lie, a lie, and not to be silenced or intimidated. In conclusion, since this discussion is public, let me make two comments on the media and on civil activities - not all but some of their participants, those storytellers who write stories about those equal, brave, honest policemen and those cowardly, insidious and bribed politicians. So I would like to tell them that they are equal and crooked, honest and dishonest, brave and cowardly - that they are roughly the same ratio between politicians, cops, clergymen, journalists, prosecutors and civil activities, because no matter what we do, we are the same species. The only thing I don't understand is that regardless of these different distinctive characters, bůh loves us all equally. And I really don't understand. But that's probably because he's perfect, unlike us." There are about six pages of Miroslav Kalousek's performance. I apologize to him for not reading the whole, very last sentence: "Mr Tejc here raised a rhetorical question to me whether we should be afraid of the police. Not at all. All my reservations, which I have always raised, were not against the police as a whole. I said here in my performance that I think that decent and rude people in all professional categories are the same. But I'm afraid of a cop who writes obvious untruths. That's what I'm afraid of. And I fear him all the more that I do not know what motivates him to do these obvious truths. Someone paid him? Wrong. Did Vice-President Zaorálek advise him? Worse. Is he incompetent? Well, no glory. It's just that the motive is extremely disturbing. Because the obvious untruths are there, and they can be proved. That's what I'm really afraid of. I don't know the motive. And since I don't know the motive, I'm not normally afraid. I'm only afraid of what I can't tell. I know there's a lie, and I don't know what the motive is for the lie. That's what I'm afraid of, Mr. Tejc, really. And I think you should be afraid, too, because that's something that threatens society as a whole, not just now Vlasta Parkanová." So it was a short excerpt from the debate where Miroslav Kalousek had the lead. At the 41st meeting of the House 11. 7. 2012. That is quite a long time before the YES movement was in politics. So just to remind us. And I'd like to move freely on to the extradition of Professor Svoboda. On Tuesday, February 4, 2014, some of us remember that. And once again, the most active Member, Miroslav Kalousek: "I am reporting for the debate, so if any of my colleagues who have the priority right want to speak immediately, I will be happy to play it for him. No one's checking in. I, ladies and gentlemen, have volunteered - not to convince anyone of how to vote. I think we're all decided in some way. I consider it my duty to say that I will vote against the extradition of Mr Svoboda because of the reason put forward by my colleague Mr Polčák." Mr Kalousek through Mr President, next time we will vote together against the extradition of Mr Liberty. If you were sitting here, you'd know. That is what I am telling you through the President. "Of course, I respect the arguments of those who will decide to issue. But please note that regardless of whether we vote against the issue or for the issue, all our colleagues who have discussed the matter in the mandate and immune committee feel the same as we do, who only know it from open sources, that it is very strange. That there are a number of non-standard steps from the police, the law enforcement authorities, and basically all those who are performing here, we have no doubt that Professor Svoboda and his council colleagues are innocent and will certainly prove their innocence before an independent court." [[He's flipping through the materials.]] I am skipping a piece of my colleague Kalousek's speech, and here is only one warm sentence: "And I would like to point out here without wanting to push any motive or interest to the law enforcement authorities, I would like to say that it has a devastating impact on democracy. Which of the honorable women or men in Prague would like to take the place of Professor Svoboda now? A man who is deeply convinced of his innocence. A man whose innocence we are all deeply convinced of, and so am I. But it may take three or four more years to be said, well, it didn't prove to him, but maybe he was just as villainy because he was prosecuted for four years. Who will want to accept this fate for the benefit of their citizens?" I'm skipping four more sides. I am going to Mr Zbyněk Stanjur: "Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, a lot has been said by my previous speakers. Nevertheless, I would like to share my personal view. I'm not performing on behalf of the whole club. I want to argue with the opinion expressed by the Minister or the colleague, whether everyone defends themselves in court - but his innocence proves, it's strange, I'm keeping my fingers crossed, I think he's going to win. We're supposed to judge whether we're going to give up our colleague or not. I'm here for the second term, so unfortunately, I've had eight, maybe ten, such negotiations, and I've personally been in favour and in half against them in about half of the cases. [[11.10 hours]] I think the time aspect is also crucial. It is the year and a half that we have voted on the release of our former colleague, Mrs Vlasta Parkanová. Eighteen months! And what did our justice do? How have we moved on this case since this time? I'm afraid not. It is not in the hands of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm saying I heard similar speeches back then. Let's just hand it over. It's good for her to clean herself up. Unfortunately, we must say that every politician who is accused of this is badly injured in his professional career, which is politics. Not only his opponents from other political parties, but also within the framework of an intra-party duel is often pointed out if he wants to defeat such a person: beware, beware, he is accused, God knows how it will turn out, rather nominate someone else. Now maybe I'll ask a rhetorical question. If anyone would have a factual answer to her, I'd like to hear her. Do you remember the case of politics in the Czech Republic, when someone was accused and subsequently won the trial and was found innocent and then continued his political career? That voters and the media took him really clean? For the opinion prevailed: somehow they swept it under the carpet, although they did not condemn it, but God knows how it was. And I'll be glad to know. Okay. You have one case. Okay, I don't mind -- he's reacting to the O.R.." And the last thing I'd do is quote Věra Jourová's performance. I've already talked about her here. Věra, our current Commissioner, was in custody, I don't know, I have a feeling about 30 days. They picked her up at the airport when she got off the plane, and they blew her into custody right away. There. And the Minister for Regional Development said: "I listened very much to the Professor Svoboda when he spoke of the roots that had happened to him and how he felt about it. If I didn't have the authentic experience myself, maybe I'd take it with a spare. But I remember very well the words when someone came to me who said to me: Beware of this decision, you do not yet know what may happen to you. And in ten minutes, I was sitting in Ruzyně, and those words sounded in my ears, and then they sounded to me for a few more years, and I'm still shaking. In my case, it wasn't an exoneration in court. My thing never went to trial because there wasn't even the slightest evidence. That was totally sucked out of my finger. And when Mrs. Parkanová was charged, I heard Mr. Kalousek screaming from this place that someone would drink it, that someone would be held accountable. And I say from this place today: no one will drink it, because a prosecutor who gives a legal opinion in the prosecution that someone is a member of a gang, a criminal organisation, which, by the way, was also my case, and that he acted with the intention that it was a crime, so he will never be called to account for being punished for ruining someone's life, career, family, health and so on. I waited patiently for the end of my prosecution so that I could turn this thing around and call it to the responsibility of someone who was either pardoned by a professional douchebag, that he misjudged it, plus there was no evidence, or he just did it out of intention, or that he was bribed. I never found out about this because there's no institute in our legal system to make that happen. So it's in our hands. It's only when something happens to one of us and there's an immunity debate that we're talking about how our justice works." Well, that's what we started today, colleagues. [[With laughter:]] For starting a fight, lawyers. I asked you not to argue. "This matter concerns dozens of other people. I've already crossed the line. I'm very shivering. I have a moral dilemma. Atd., etc." Well, that was Mr. Svoboda Professor's case, which is still alive. And the last one is Mrs. Kailová, ex-wife. Here, my colleague Černochová, who was opposed to etc., made numerous arguments that, like this - and Mrs. Kailová, we did not publish. But I've only got two shows I'm interested in. One Mrs Marie Benešová, former Minister of Justice and Prosecutor. That's very nice. "Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my Lord. Originally, I didn't want to perform because I still feel with the D.A.'s office, because I've worked there almost my whole life. But I'm asking myself where the D.A. is going today. So do I... and I have to give the truth to the opposition MPs as well. I have read the resolution, and I have seen a lot of resolutions in my professional life under § 160, but I have clearly called this 'literary diarrhea'. Forgive my expressive expression, but otherwise I cannot name it, and I believe that if a superior prosecutor has a complaint to review, reason must cancel the resolution. Our previous teachers have always taught us: If criminal prosecution is initiated, there must be at least 80 per cent of the probability that the crime has occurred, a certain person has committed it and in what way. There's no such thing as a resolution here, no specifics of this type at all, and there's a sense of purpose out of his shoes. So I don't like it at all, either, and I call it selective justice, and unfortunately this expression will spread not only here in Prague, but I've heard it in different regions. I don't want selective justice to work with us. I've always held the principle of falling to whom, and I believe we're going to get back to the phase where it's going to fall the way it's supposed to. I'm not sure - I've always wondered who's to blame, let them answer, tell the police what they know, and let them defend themselves. But this is the number one time when the real purpose here can be felt. In this situation, I will not vote in favour of Mrs Kailová's extradition because I think this must be stopped. Thank you. [[Let's hear it from the ČSSD desks.]] " And last of all, I left my colleague Miroslav Kalousek at the end. But it's due only to the fact that Kalousek's colleague is doing the most in all the editions, and the performances are all the same, so I'm very curious about what he's going to say today. I hope he's not in a different spirit. Or other performances of colleagues who will say: But the House is not a trial! Not like the press conference this morning. So why don't you keep saying that, coworkers and colleagues? [[He repeats strongly:]] Why don't you keep saying that! These are your opinions! Whatever it takes. Whatever it takes. "Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have Kailová proposed the abolition of criminal immunity in the last parliamentary term, and I intend to propose something similar with my colleagues and this House. Even this House, I presume, also unsuccessfully. And I didn't do that, and I'm not gonna do that because I consider immunity an historic excess or privilege. I'm convinced it's not a privilege. I believe that this is basically a means of working for the legislator to be able to do his work independently. As I once had to wear an asbestos apron at Mitas's national enterprise for hot polymers, the legislator must simply have the immunity idol as a protective device provided that the chamber could deal with it. That's what I've been rationalizing in the last parliamentary term, and I'm going to justify it now. We just can't deal with her. We sometimes use it as a political struggle against our ideal opponents, or even against intra-party enemies, we sometimes use it to please the current media mainstream, we sometimes use it in such a way that we don't understand it at all, because we say: I don't think it should pay, so my constitutional obligation to consider it will be ignored. I repeat, I will propose the abolition of immunity, but as long as the law is in force, my constitutional obligation of the legislature to carry out that obligation and to consider at any moment whether it is an accusation that must continue to be processed without any delay, or whether it is so visibly purposeful stupid bullying, that it will wait until the end of the mandate, because there is no reason to believe that the motive is anything other than purposeful bullying. [[11.20 hours]] And that's my duty. I can disagree a thousand times that she's immunity, I can ask a thousand times for her cancellation, but as long as she exists, I simply have a duty to consider it according to my parliamentary pledge, according to my best knowledge and conscience. And since I have considered this, and I am deeply convinced that the accusation of Mrs Kailová is merely a stupid bullying, I will not resign from my constitutional right nor will I alibistically hide from my constitutional duty and vote against its extradition. - A round of applause from members of the ČSSD." So, my friends, so much on my part, my performance. I'm terribly sorry I couldn't read it all, but it's already 11:20 p.m. and my colleague Kalousek's speeches were really very long, hourly and several hours, so maybe next time. Thank you all for your attention and I repeat again, I will vote actively for my extradition because it is all wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u35	Good morning, honourable Members, thank you to Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek for his speech, we will continue. First, I shall state the apology of Minister Ilja Šmíd from today's meeting, which was delivered to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. We have four factual points ahead of us, and then proper applications for the debate. The first point in fact is the remark made by Mr Marek Výborný, and Mrs Miroslava Němcová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u36	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Government, Colleagues and Colleagues. I wanted to ask my colleague, Mr Vice-President, if he had made a New Year's resolution, and repeated it in the media in the past days, here today if he really followed it, because otherwise the Czech proverb will apply that a good resolution paved the way somewhere. And I think that doesn't really contribute to political culture, even here on this House soil. I'm here briefly, if it was customary here, maybe so, but if we move on to, for example, the political culture that is standard in the Senate, in the upper chamber, I think it would be good for all of us, but it would also benefit the overall state of politics here in our country. Thank you, and please, let's all do this, not just some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Miroslava Němcová, with a point of fact, will prepare Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am merely going to react briefly in my point of fact to what was said here from the mouth of Mr Faltýnek when he touched the story of our colleague, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, and his publication in the last parliamentary term. So, with all the expanse of the trial that he's put forward here with the conclusion that until now we're standing before the decision whether or not we're going to release the Donate of Svoboda, he's going to be heroically voting for his extradition. But you could have added, through Mr President, that at that meeting that you also quoted on 4 or 5 February - now I do not know exactly when it was - you voted in favour of the release in 2014, as did the whole club of the ANO movement, and I think two people abstained. And at that point, it would be good to say that maybe when it wasn't about you, you were the hero. When it comes to you all of a sudden, you're gonna throw everything in one bag, and you're trying to make it look like a completely different case, so that the story of one equals the story of the other, because it suits your version. I think this is very misleading, and I am also defending myself on behalf of the ODS MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u39	Thank you, Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, President Stanjura will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u40	Thank you for the floor. Sorry to keep you waiting, but I've been quoted so many times that I feel compelled to explain my position. The so-called great anti-corruption revolution, which, by the way, opened the ANO movement to power, launched something that we had not known before: criminalising political decisions, namely the political decisions made in the congregation. We all know that political decisions are often decisions where we do not choose this ideal, but when we decide between bad and worse. Then someone always comes in: you didn't pick the worst, you picked the wrong one, but since it's still wrong, we'll prosecute you. And that was the case of both Mr Svoboda Professor and Secretary Parkanová and Mrs Kailová, and that is why I have defended so many of them here, and I will always stand up for them. And I would like to say in advance that when Mr Růžička of YES is prosecuted for something similar, I will be equally passionately opposed, because he has made a political decision in the congregation for which he is now being criminalized. That's not the case with Capi čapí. That wasn't a political decision. That's where somebody just claimed $50 million, which the police think was from the money they shouldn't have taken. Even in the case of colleagues quoted, the prosecutor himself says that there is no doubt that those persons have not been enriched. It's just here that there's a suspicion that someone stole $50 million, they definitely took it and used it for their own private purposes. Whether it was a crime or not, it can only be decided by an independent court, but we shouldn't stop the examination. So between the criminalization of collective political decisions and private enrichment, there is a line in my conscience that I will keep away, and I am convinced that the position is still the same. [[The President draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u41	Thank you, it has not been exceeded so significantly the time to make a point of fact. We continue with the factual remark made by President Stanjura. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank Mr Faltýnek for the quote. When I listened to her, I'm glad I didn't have to change anything about my opinion at the time. I will proceed equally maybe unlike many others. And that's what the last two previous speakers said, and I'll do it again. When I make my decision, and we have a good democratic rule in the Civic Democratic Party Club, which we, who have come later, have inherited and which we will certainly hand over to our successors in our party, to our Members, that we do not seek a common position on extradition, we do not have a binding vote, everyone decides individually. And I actually voted in about ten cases, as you quoted in your speech, and it's very simple for me, personally. If this request concerns political decision making, I'm against it. Mr Birke spoke about this in his speech, and Mrs Němcová spoke about it. I said that when we voted on the release of Mr Svoboda, we will vote on it again, and I do not have to change my position, unlike others, and I will vote the same way. And that's the basic difference. And I want to say, President Faltýnek, through the Vice-President, if the police had requested the extradition of a person or person of your party colleague and it was for your vote in the House, in the council, in the government, I would be against it. It's like that for me, and I don't want to comment on the case at all. [[unintelligible]] In my opinion, it has nothing to do with your political activity, then I can vote for the issue, which I will do today. If it had anything to do with your political activity, with your vote, with that in the choir, I would have voted against extradition because I am judging by this view and I am not judging by whether it is a member of my political party or a member of another political movement or other political party. And so I have also followed Mrs Kailová and Mrs Parkanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u43	Thank you, and we have another performance. With a point of fact, President Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u44	Thank you. It doesn't bother me that we don't agree that this is or isn't a political case. Because if we weren't in politics, and I said here my criminal qualifications are that I'm the first vice president of the movement, because if anyone looked at or was interested in looking at the concrete evidence that isn't there, they'll basically make it clear that it's the political qualification of this crime. But we don't agree on that, that's okay. I don't want to delay. [[11.30 hours]] But to my colleague, the Němcová, through Mr President. You, my colleague, are completely confused. I'm sorry. I have said my personal opinion and, of course, I know that I voted last time for as our entire parliamentary club. But also remember the statement made by the current President of the Chamber of Deputies, who has also said that in the past. That we can change our minds after careful study of these things, and only an asshole stays the same in his opinion. So I just changed my mind and it has nothing to do with this case of mine, because I'm gonna vote for my release. I've said that a hundred times. So let's not get mixed up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another factual point by President Stanjura, then we will return to the debate duly signed up. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u46	First of all, President Faltýnek, through the Vice-President, Mrs Němcová is not confused. You may disagree with what he's saying, but I'd like you to weigh your words. Just to be precise, maybe you didn't quite get it. I said I would not vote and I do not vote if it is a police request to issue a Member or a Member in connection with his political decision-making. [[unintelligible]] I am among those who claim that every vote in the Chamber of Deputies is political. We do politics, we represent political parties, so I do not know a vote in the Chamber of Deputies that is not political. In that respect, I can agree with you saying that this case concerns politics. That is true, because it affects active politicians. But it has nothing to do with political decision. So I just want to make it very clear - yes, you are right, in this sense, every vote on the issue, but also on all other points in the Chamber of Deputies is political vote and political decision making. And we claim it as a traditional political democratic party, and we are not ashamed of it. But it doesn't have anything to do with this case, which I don't want to evaluate, with your political decision-making. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u47	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, and we continue the debate. Mrs Procházková will be given the floor, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't know my first word was gonna be today. I thought I was going to do something professional because my constituents sent me here because I know and know something. But he won't let me say anything today. So I'm sorry I'm gonna read this because I've prepared something. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen - although I do not know whether I can even afford to address the Prince as my colleague, as we were told on Wednesday. If by any chance I don't belong in the line of those who can't. However, I would like to briefly share my trivial experience of prosecuting my person as director of the hospital and my fellow chief of staff, which lasted more than four and a half years. More than 1,600 Witnesses were heard, all of whom testified in our behalf. Journalists referred to us as criminals. And I wasn't a politician! Fortunately, our representation of the region - then right-wing representation - stood up for us, honored the presumption of innocence and left us in office. We were charged, charged, fully acquitted by the First Instance Court, but the D.A. appealed. Once again, the Regional Court has acquitted us of our guilt to the fullest extent, and even apologized to us for being unnecessarily criminalized. But not a word in the media, the dog didn't bark at us. There was an exchange of political representation of the region. I was removed from my post, and the police officer who investigated us was put into office as the general director of the hospital without a tender procedure - I note in the state institution. What a paradox! I'm sure he was an expert. It may have been my satisfaction that within a year he was recalled by the same people, and today they themselves are charged in the case of the ROP Northwest. I have the law number one, the highest, and the law number two, the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Law No. 2, Title Five, Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 - I quote: "Everyone who is prosecuted is considered innocent unless his guilt has been expressed by a final judgment of the court. " Unfortunately, in my case, that was not the case. It's towards the media. Fortunately, our superiors honored it, but the experience was terrifying. The gentlemen mentioned today, Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek, have been criminalized and dragged by the media for several months, let alone after. It does not stand with me that politics must be viewed differently. No. According to the Charter - and I will quote again - the head of the first article. 1: "People are free and equal in dignity and in rights. Fundamental rights and freedoms are inalienable, inalienable, inalienable and inalienable." Non-politic politician. That is why I will vote against the issue, because I believe that this is a political contract, how to discredit the leadership of a successful political entity, namely YES. There will be no objection that they should surrender so that they can defend themselves. They're already paralyzed by the politician and his movement, and that's what this is really about. Well, we're not gonna deal with the accused Prime Minister! There's an excuse from all sides. It does not respect the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and the Constitution. And finally. Nor will I be in favour of the extradition of Mr Růžička and Mr Liberty if they wish. Here I feel the aftertaste of the political cause, as I feel in the case of Mayor Oloví, upon whom his opposition invented a fictional case and which was liberated after four and a half years. Mrs Jourová or Mrs Vitásková. Same cases. They were purposefully criminalized, dragged by the media, and eventually freed without respect for their rights. Dear colleagues, tomorrow someone may sleep and file 200 criminal charges against all of us. And you're all gonna step down? So what's the immunity for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Procházková, for her performance. We continue with Mr Ferjenčík's speech. Madame Taťána Malá will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope I can afford this address... And a colleague. [[He's responding to a War Member who tells him.]] Thank you for the floor. [[Resurrection in the hall and laughter of the part present.]] I would like to address the sentence that Babiš and Mr Faltýnek often repeat, that if they had not gone into politics, no one would have pulled out the čapí's nest. I think it's true, but that's the problem. This is the problem that there are thousands of similar grant entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic who exploit the system that purposefully remove companies from the holding so that they can receive subsidies for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and deliberately circumvent the rules. And without, at least from time to time, any case of these grant entrepreneurs being driven to court at least, this practice will never change. [[11.40 hours]] I think this case should be a memento for people like Andrej Babiš and Mr. Faltýnek who make money from illegally earning European subsidies, that if they go into politics then this dark past can catch up with them. [[banging on benches and noise in YES benches]] And that's a very important signal for the public as well. And one more comment. Here politicians often complain that the trial takes so long, that the investigation takes so long. But that's our job to regulate legislation. For example, a job by the Justice Department to work on shortening the proceedings. And, of course, until the politicians are issued for prosecution, it will never happen, because if it doesn't work out for us here, of course, we're never gonna fix the rules. I've been to court twice for my political activities, both courts I've won, and I'm glad for that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u51	That was Mr Ferjenčík's speech. We continue with Mrs Malá, but I will ask her to be patient because I have two factual points, Mr Stanjura and Mr Plzák. So, Mr Stanjura's point of order. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u52	I think there's a way to reduce the amount of fraud in grant programs - to disrupt grant programs. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Whether it's national or European. We are repeatedly proposing this - and since we are captains, I say also regional, so it is clear that I do not mean only state. If we reduce the rate of redistribution, if we significantly reduce the number and volume of subsidy programs, we will, of course, reduce the volume for possible fraud. And that's the way, and that's where the politicians are. However, the practice in previous governments was often the opposite. There's been a problem and a proposed solution - I'll come up with a grant title. Today it's really industry, a sea of people writing applications for subsidies, whether officials or specialised firms, then someone's evaluating it, then someone's checking it, preferably five times, and it's not productive at all. We can put that money in the budget of taxes, counties, cities, those government officials and their regional councils, mayors and their municipal and municipal councils can do much better than a set of clever ones who assess de facto the same grant applications and choose someone and choose someone. If we narrow the area down significantly, even those cases of potential grant fraud will be much less in the future than it is today and in the past.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u53	Thank you. In the meantime, the number of entries to the factual remark has changed, and Mr Jiří Bláha remains with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u54	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, hello, Mr President. I would like to respond to what has been said here. Who was in the government when the subsidies were being implemented? Who has ruled here for the past ten years and allowed this subsidy system to develop into this form, when no one knows about it even in offices, let alone businessmen? I've been in business for 28 years. And I've been saying what you've invented for 28 years. Who controls us through subsidies? Let's face it. It is the European Union that came to us and said to us: here we will put this money on your table and you will listen to us for it. And you all fell for their fat. You all had a chance to cancel. You have all been to governments, including - through the President, I will say specific names, Mr Kalousek, the Minister of Finance. But there was an ODS. You were all there. So what did you do to make sure this inconspicuous situation wasn't here? Otherwise, through Mr President, I would like to send a message to the pirát. Whoever didn't do business doesn't know what it is. Sit behind a desk, go to the office, anyone can do that. Try to run a business. Businessmen are charged with taking advantage of every situation offered to them, which is precisely defined under laws and legal standards. And use it to help the company stand up in a competitive fight to survive the time that is, the inequality that is here, when imported raw materials and products are being imported to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a factual remark to Mr Bláh. But he has multiplied the number of entries with factual remarks - Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Stanjura, Mr Hájek. My colleague malý will be able to wait. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u56	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President, the pirát did not rule here, so the pirát are not responsible for this marast. And we think it's just as bad a grant system that's been built here by the old structures that sit here, as well as the abuse of subsidies that show off the new structures that sit here. The voters will have to decide. So far, you've got the upper hand, but maybe in time it'll change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u57	Mr Stanjura now with a factual remark and Mr Hájek. You have the floor, Mr President, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u58	So to Mr Bláh, by your means. You're right about a lot of things. We also accept responsibility for our governments, whether we were here personally or not. But a few facts. The programme period 2017 to 2013 was prepared by the Government of Social Democracy. There was nothing I could do about it. But then your government walked here for four years and kept telling us: our main responsibility is that we will draw European money, there was a threat of exhaustion, we saved... They used it in political warfare. I have had a long-term or long-term encounter with the Minister of the Environment, who has succumbed to the pressure of the European Union. Start with him. Bad EIA law. And he told us you should have accepted him. And I said, no, no, no, we didn't accept him in the wrong version as you did. Every day without this new EIA was good for the Czech Republic. So try to start in your own ranks. And try telling your ministers, former or current, not to come here and say: if we don't accept it, someone will stop our subsidies. That's what we've heard in the Service Act, in the EIA, in many other laws, and in many other regulations, when we said, and enough, let's do it differently. And it was your ministers who said: no, to get the money, we have to approve it in this text.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u59	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And I have two more factual points, virtually. Three. But before, perhaps in order to calm the situation, I will read the apologies received - Mr Staněk apologizes between 11.30 and 19.00 and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek from 13.30 to the end of the day due to a doctor's visit. Mr Hájek, now with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Bláha and then by President Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u60	Mr President, colleagues, I have long wondered who our fellow Pirates likened, and after the performance of Ferjenčík, Mr Ferjenčík, my colleagues, I am clear now. I'm going to compare them to the fifties, who ran into factories in blue shirts right out of schools, ran into the country where they started preaching that it was wrong! [[applause by Members YES and Mr Bartoš]] [[speaks loudly and resolutely]] That what you've been doing here for centuries is wrong! We must collectivize! We must nationalize! That means the new blood directly from the schools this time, not the factories and the countryside, but the benches! Of course, I was young too. I recognize youth. The vervain, the energy. But on the other hand, there is no humility. And I don't see the humility here with some of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u61	I thank Mr Hájek. Now, Mr Jiří Bláha, also with a point of fact, then President Bartoš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u62	I really wouldn't want to expand our ranks here to discuss. Maybe it's better if we get together and face it, mouth to mouth. But one crucial thing. I was talking about the time we joined the European Union and we had an incredible amount of time to stop it all. There's nothing we can do about it today. If you were doing business and doing business in agriculture, you'd find that you can't actually survive outside competitive pressure without subsidies. You don't stand a chance of surviving in other industries without subsidies to compete with what's happening. To us, products are deliberately distributed below the price, when the supplier or manufacturer buys milk from us and brings the yogurt and dairy products here cheaper than we can produce here at a lower labour price. As regards, through Mr President, the pirát. It's just that if I don't get life experience, if I haven't done business in my life, then I can't know what business actually brings. This means that the daily struggle for me to survive, that I must, in my case, two hundred employees, two hundred colleagues, for whom I am responsible, I really must take every opportunity. And the fact that the company is now a big... What are startup projects? Remember what startup projects are. These are the projects that we support at the moment. And where does the startup projects end? In big companies. So we're gonna judge them in ten years for being bought? That's how we can judge everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u63	Mr. Ambassador, the time has ended for a point of fact. I'm the one who's patient. But we are discussing a request for the extradition of two Members of this House on a proposal from the mandate and immunity committee. I have five factual points ahead of me, and I point out, do not take advantage of the fact that you are responding to your colleagues. Only comment on the subject matter! President Bartoš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I will now allow myself to piss off the President a little, because I have to respond. I don't know if it's some PR team advice or some insulted ego-- sticking the pirát with different attributes. Well, maybe I've been in business since I was 18. I'm a VAT payer. We are the people who come from... There are representatives from all regions. So the pirát are definitely not some city children who just came from school to the Chamber of Deputies. And, through Mr President, for example, my colleague and I are dealing with the case of OKD, which is precisely the cause of the structures that we criticise. [[A grove]] So please, and this has also been said by our colleagues from the ODS, and we are voting here on health matters, and it is certainly not a condition for anyone who votes on this matter to be a doctor or have an education in the field of medicine. So there are entrepreneurs among us, people who have 20 years of experience as employees as well as in companies, VAT payers. So please don't label here or give us any stickers that have no relevant basis at all. On the pirate side are people over 80 years of age, pensioners, sociologists, educators. The fact that we have a younger electorate is our advantage. We do not carry the stigmats of the past, which unfortunately in this House we see not only from the parties that have historically been here before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u65	I thank President Bartoš for his time. Now, Mr Třešňák, on a factual note. My colleague Blažek will be ready. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u66	Mr President, I do not wish to play the offended one through a factual remark, but it bothers me how Mr Hájek is pausing this whole sector there. And I would like to ask, through the President, for an apology, because among the pirates, as has been said by our President, there are a lot of entrepreneurs, a lot of people who like me have a professional background, even if only seven years, in a corporation. And I consider it undignified. And since Mr Hájek has already made such a local Ein Kessel Buntes, then excuse me for this fact. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u67	Thank you. Mr Blažek is now also making a point of fact. President Bartošek will also be prepared with a factual remark. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u68	Thank you for the floor. I will also respond to my colleague Hájek. Because I agree with my colleague Ferjenčík about everything, I begin by saying that it is not true that when someone is young, he is stupid too. I know a lot of old people who are a lot dumber than the young ones. [[Responses from the O.R.]] But how do I agree with Mr. Ferjenčík? I agree with him, and it is quite important that I also think that we would not have discussed this matter if Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Faltýnek had not gone into politics. And I'll fill in the justification. I don't think there's a mob behind this. Mr Andrej Babiš, as chairman of the new movement, began to collectively divide that there is a corrupt right, there are entrepreneurs who don't pay taxes, they need to be followed. And I could name a lot and a lot of other groups, which he gradually organized for either bad, if not criminal. Probably somebody sat down from these groups and said, "Is it you, Andrea and Jarda, who are you to preach morale to us? And so they looked because they said, "We're from the same environment, we're from the same time." Jarda, Andrej, is it really you who can preach to us? And they probably found some weakness called the čapí Nest, they wrote a criminal report -- I don't think it takes a mob to do it -- and at that moment, someone noticed this criminal report. And I really don't think this whole case is just about the prosecution. This is really about who can and cannot preach. And I am one of those who fully recognize Mr. Babiš's managerial and political abilities. He's always pretending he's not a politician, but he's got great political skills. But the question of moral right to preach to entrepreneurs and other groups - I don't agree with it at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And the last point of fact - Mr Bartošek. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u70	Thank you. Since we are talking about subsidies here, I will be free to follow up on Mr Bláha. I am pleased that one member of the ANO movement presents here that the subsidies are wrong. I suppose that means subsidies to agriculture. I hope that you will also present this opinion to farmers in the Czech Republic, that our farmers will lose their subsidies in terms of competitiveness. And the second thing, I'm gonna keep going, is that... [[Mr Brázdil leads a loud commentary on the speaker.]] I'll keep going. The point is that what we are discussing here is not a question of immunity. Or is it? I think if it's so clean, let's just go home, let's say you guys didn't do anything, let's cut back on the debate, let's say we're on our way home, let's see if the court can set one another free, and that's settled. No?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u71	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Jiří Bláha, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u72	It'll be really quick. I said here that nowadays we can't stand without subsidies in agriculture, because what's coming at us from all over the European Union, when meat comes here, like Belgium, is cheaper than what we grow here, so it just doesn't have an equivalent. And it's not just about meat. It's about the dairy products. So today, if those farmers didn't have the subsidies - which is what the European Union is about, we're gonna cancel our agriculture here, and then we're gonna import their products here. You haven't gotten it yet? Why did the European Union give us money anyway? To control us normally! Nothing else. That's all they care about. So that is the main intention - to dominate the Czech economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Vice-President Pikal with a point of order. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u74	Thank you. I just want to try to get back to the debate because we ran away to farm subsidies. But a stork's nest isn't a farm that does some kind of cultivation. It's a recreational facility. [[The laughter of members of the ANO movement.]] As far as I know. So let's just get back to the subject, please. And it is possible that it is not possible to do business without subsidies in agriculture. But in the area of recreational facilities it may be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u75	Thank you for keeping time. And we are returning to the debate - Mrs Taťána Malá and then Mrs Oborná. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u76	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, colleagues, let me also say a few words as a member of the mandate and immune committee on what we are discussing here today. The last days and weeks have been really hard. Incredible media pressure, opposition attacks, which is now really how many - eight pages, waiting for a mistake in any reaction to the media, its misrepresentation, interpretation of those who are actually suitable, those who are clear ahead: Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek must simply be released, because there is no doubt about their guilt. I'm in the House for a while, but I didn't expect it so personal, so heated and so on. But I really didn't have anything left to do but get used to it. In the end, I am glad that I had the opportunity to be a member of the mandate and immunity committee, even because I was not just dependent on the media and the demagogy of other opposition parties out of context, but I could take a picture of myself. In doing so, I felt strongly that politicians who have been in the House for a long time did not go under the nose of how we members of the mandate and immune committee for YES stood up to work in the mandate and immune committee. We were even encouraged that it was not customary for a mandate and an immune committee to discuss similar cases. It wasn't customary! This is obviously a universal argument for not wanting to deal with something or simply not to deal with it. So I'm asking why the mandate and immune committee is even here. Why does it exist? So he doesn't do anything? I would very much like to assure everyone that in no way did we ever want to subpoena the work of the police and not even do it, but above all we want to do our job responsibly, which is why the voters elected us. And, among other things, we will examine all cases that fall to the mandate and immunity committee, really all and honestly. I told the media several times last week that as I have doubts about the prosecution of Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek, I have the exact same doubts in the case of the prosecution of Bohuslav Svoboda, and as you all have noticed here, this fact is not from YES, but from ODS. But let us return to the release of Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek. When I went to the police, I wanted time to study the file properly, which is why I chose the days at the end of last year. I wanted to have real time and peace to study the file, and I sort of expected that all the doubts that I had in the time that I was able to pursue this case would be refuted. What happened at the police station, I can tell you that I really would never want to experience it again. Since I couldn't find anything for a long time, it took me almost five hours to study the file. That's probably what Mr. Policeman, who allowed me to study the file, didn't last. He began to pick on me and my fellow Member quite poisonously that in any other civilized country, Andrej Babiš would have been given for his actions long ago, that we should be glad that we could even look into the police file, because it is not his duty to show it to us. I really wouldn't want you to experience this. And it arrived with a cherry on the cake, when he said it wasn't really surprising for the two of us, because we're from YES. It feels awful. That politicians are clear, okay. It's politics, we all know that. There's a way to apologize that the media are clear. But the police are clear? I understand you're going to say he's an indecent cop, it's his own personal failure, and that's one way of explaining it. But that would make me feel better, not at all. I found more questions in the file than answers, so I logically thought that I would put them to the prosecutor and investigator at the meeting of the mandate and immunity committee. He shocked me even more, I felt like he wasn't in his file. He often could not answer the questions we asked him and arrived when he was obviously not telling the truth. To his bad luck, we could easily verify it. What did he say? He told us that Andrej Babiš, Jaroslav Faltýnek, and their lawyers had no interest in examining the file. And even this claim confirmed after my repeated query: they had no interest in peeking into the file. At the same time, everyone on the mandate and immunity committee knew that he was lying to us. Attorneys were interested in looking into the file, asked the investigator directly to do so in writing and by e-mail. But the investigator offered them a much later term. All members of the mandate and immunity committee could read it because the communication between the investigator and the attorneys was on the table. I don't know why he lied. But I definitely lost faith in him. That is why we wanted to continue to act, and apart from the lords of Babiš and Faltýnek, we welcomed the proposal of the SPD when they decided to invite the expolist Komárek. Again, we were attacked politically and medialy for this. That we shouldn't invite an ex-police officer who's wrongfully convicted. I may have a seemingly tiny point to that. I found out from public sources that expolist Komárek was wrongly convicted for saying something he shouldn't have said, not for lying or for saying some rumor about how our colleagues from the Pirates, the ODS or the TOP 09 tried to force us. He was convicted for just not saying anything. And now: Komárek is an unrightfully convicted expolist, the investigator has proven to be lying on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies before 18 members of the mandate and immunity committee - Mr Kalousek, at that moment, took a leak, which was missing. But, okay, Mr. Komárek was not deprived of silence, and we fully respected that. Before the last meeting of the Committee, both Babiš and Faltýnek, Members of the Committee, made it clear that they would vote on their extradition. For me, a man's gesture. It was not a custom in the House before, and it was already mentioned here today, since 1993 you have not issued 15 members for criminal prosecution. In 2014, some of you here fighting for justice refused to hand over the aforementioned Ms Kailová, who was prosecuted for overpriced contracts. Even here, there was a suspicion that somebody stole the money. She was the deputy mayor of Ústí nad Labem. Then why are you making people look like fools? Why do you manipulate public opinion based on how convenient it is for you? Why are you personally attacking, and badly, if I'm only allowed to ask aloud, what would happen if the entire case were investigated in four years? After all, you yourself declared the exact same idea. Yes, you who are sitting here now. I think it only points to incredible hypocrisy and falsehood! Anyway. I will not be intimidated, even by the rude and aggressive attacks of people on social networks who, under a hidden identity, are trying to undermine our courage. I will keep my opinions and views on the matter, as well as the conviction that I did not advise my colleagues to vote for the release of Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek, because I am not really sure that police investigations are paved with pure intentions and that someone here would really seek justice. The fact that most of this House of Honor was clear before they even had a chance to look into the police file was also true, isn't it, colleagues? As I said, I therefore advised my colleagues not to vote for the release of Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek. We had the opportunity to look into the file and get closer to the case. And the way the rest of you vote, ladies and gentlemen, that's a matter of your conscience, and you're gonna have to deal with it yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u77	There are five factual points to the Member's speech. The first is Mr. Výborný. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u78	Mr President, dear government, colleagues, my factual point will have several parts. One. Unfortunately, what my colleague Malá said here goes beyond the fact that the negotiations of the mandate and immunity committee are not public. I am really shocked that the things that have been said in the internal closed negotiations are here in plenary and, indeed, here, and perhaps let the Chairman of the Grospič Committee have nothing to say about this. It was also confirmed by Professor Válková, your authority within the framework of the ANO movement. So I would really ask that, as members of the mandate and immunity committee, we stick to what is ours, and the things that have been said within the committee, as part of this case, are simply not to be heard here. We are to give our opinion, we can justify it, but we are not here to convey information from the committee. [[12.10 hours]] Next thing. You said our mouths said there was no doubt about their guilt. That's just not true. If you have listened well to my comments here in plenary as well as in committee, I have argued from the outset and we argue that an independent court will decide on guilt and punishment. Our task is to judge something completely different, whether the case is in a collision or not in a collision with the mandate. And to talk about the fact that the committee is useless or that something was not customary to discuss, it is also false. We have pointed out that if someone else is invited, it is necessary to ask him to be released from confidentiality, and the Minister of the Interior has not removed the confidentiality. So let's not talk about this committee being useless, because this committee has the very opportunity and opportunity for us as members to judge the case by having access to the file, and then they could say whether there is a collision or not, and whether the House has, or is not to issue, and they recommended this. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u79	Thank you. I will introduce you to the order of actual remarks: Mr Gazdík, Mr Zaorálek, Mr Blažek, Mr Onderka, Mr Hájek signed up electronically, President Grospič has signed up. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u80	Good morning, actually noon, Madame, gentlemen. We on the mandate and immune committee are used to a lot of things. We're used to pompousness, stupidity, incompetence. And hopefully I didn't reveal any of the private negotiations of the mandate and immunity committee. However, I would respond to the comedy of my predecessor, Mrs Malá, through Mr President. I am deeply opposed to the insults of the mandate and immune committee: what it is for here has been decided in advance, etc. I am offended because the mandate and immune committee actually did work despite the delay of some Members. That's one thing. And the other thing. It offends me, because I have actually been very honest with the file, OLAF report, and I have tried to be a consistent member of the mandate and immunity committee independent of my political party and to decide whether or not this prosecution is politically motivated. For my part, I assure you that it is not politically motivated. Every other mayor or anybody else if he did what you're dealing with, he's been moaning a long time ago! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u81	Another factual point - Mr Zaorálek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u82	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Briefly. If our colleagues here, the Prime Minister and Mr Faltýnek, really say that it is possible to order prosecutions in this country, it is of course a serious matter. The question is, what does this House have to do with it? We were the ones who were in the government, including me. The YES movement had the Minister of Justice. The citizens of this country would want us to do something about it, if that's the case. That was our duty. Do you understand what we're going to do with these citizens? Who else can do anything about it but us? And we won't get back to you until it's about us. So we're gonna take advantage of the privilege that we have that if the prosecution concerns me, I'm gonna pick it up and I'm gonna tell everyone: look, this is an outrage! But that's us, the government, the ministers who were supposed to do something about it! There's nothing the House can do about it, poor thing. What about the public? There are also a lot of citizens who are also being prosecuted, and they are unable to lift it in front of people, they are unable to perform here. What are they supposed to do to you? Fortunately, we have immunity. So it's, you know, completely wrong, the whole act! Because something's touched us, we're doing this very carefully, we're discussing it, but those are the privileges. When I listen to this, I think, there's only one way out of this. If I have to justify myself to the public, I'll say, in that case, I don't want immunity, because it's just a scandal! All poor citizens have to prosecute, even threatened to be ordered, and only when it happens to us can we defend ourselves here in the House. I think it's wrong that we're entering a prosecution like this! In fact, we're entering it with everything, with all the shows, folks. It affects everything, even those who do it. It's just bad. My proposal is to end this as quickly as possible, and if it is politically agreed to abolish the immunity, perhaps with the only exception when it comes to speeches in the House. That would be the public's most correct point of view. Otherwise, people just can't like this. It's wrong! You all came here in good faith to represent people. That's not how we represent them, talk and defend ourselves!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u83	It is Mr Blažek's turn to make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u84	Thank you for the floor. I'll respond to my colleague. A little sighing that I can't get rid of that Komárek because he's chasing me. I'll just be more specific. Mr. Komárek wasn't, and he's not being prosecuted for saying something he shouldn't have said. Mr. Komárek is being prosecuted for saying something to the media that he was not at all able to prove with any evidence, and he still had it from a file he was not working on, which he probably didn't have at his disposal. And the court said, "Dear Mr. Komárek, you were a police officer, and you should have used the prescribed procedures to deal with the matter." But the main thing he said: you go to the media with something you can't even prove. And that something was an attack on the police president, which I think we all agree, in no armed corps is possible to do in this way. For that he was and is prosecuted by Mr. Komárek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u85	Now the order of points of fact: Mr Onderka, Mr Hájek, Mr Bartošek. [[Alert the messengers to report in. Grospic.]] Get out of the way! Electronic notes have priority. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor - electronic applications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u86	Mr President, the rest of the sitting government, my colleagues, a few responses to my colleague malý. You say, through Mr President, that there are eight parties in opposition. You've chosen it so! You made a minority government. Your chairman has made a minority government, and thus marked all eight parties to the opposition. The second thing that is shocking to me is about the third appearance in the Chamber of Deputies today, when we are talking about the misconduct of the Police of the Czech Republic or the misconduct of prosecutors. We are thus making it clear to the public that we do not believe in the legal state of the Czech Republic. It's a disaster when we act as legislators in this way. That is why, through Mr President, I call on Mrs malý to file a complaint against GIBS, because the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps should save such cases if they really did, and I call on the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior to deal with these matters. Since it is not possible from the Chamber of Deputies to question from these benches the rule of law which we are part of because we are legislators. And we all need to realize that. When I return to the eight-sided opposition, as has fallen here, I think that today, at least so much I hope, there will be a great consensus in the vote: Eight opposition parties will vote as well as the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and as well as the chairman of your club. So I'm good for all of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u87	Thank you. Mr. Hájek. He's downloading his point of view. It is President Bartošek's turn, once again with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u88	Just for a little while. Negotiations are under way on the extradition of Mr Faltýnek and Prime Minister Babiš. Neither of them has been present in the hall for a long time - now here comes Mr.Faltýnek. I think it would be right if these two people were to be present in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u89	President Grospič's point of view is now in fact in order. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My esteemed colleagues, colleagues, honourable members of the government, I certainly did not have much ambition to enter into this discussion, because I think that I will, of course, express my decision and the feeling that I have taken, and the conviction of the deliberations of the mandate and immune committee, as well as how I have had the opportunity to get acquainted with the file material, by voting. This is also reflected in the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee. However, I would like to take this opportunity to appeal to the members of the mandate and immune committee that the deliberations of the mandate and immune committee are not public and apply the same rules as for the negotiations and their speeches in public, that is, the things that they had the opportunity to get acquainted with when studying, for example, the file material in the matter, or the things that have been said in the statements and hearings of participants invited to the deliberations of the mandate and immune committee, and the course of the mandate and immune committee should serve primarily to guide them, how to vote on how to deliver the whole thing, but should keep them for themselves, not, of course, interpret them on the outside. Even though they feel that in plenary The Chambers of Deputies can do so, so I fear they can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u91	Thank you. There is no further factual point, so Mrs Oborná is enrolled in the general debate, followed by Mrs Válková. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u92	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, as a member of the mandate and immunity committee, I must comment on the whole issue of the extradition of Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek, because I have recently witnessed events that I consider shocking. And believe me, I wouldn't wish any of you had a similar experience. Táňa Malá has already mentioned this, so I would just add a few small but very striking observations. I've been trying to get a closer look at the Cookie Nest case by studying the file. I spent nearly five hours at the Regional Police Directorate in Prague. After that, I listened very carefully on the mandate and immune committee, both the prosecutor and Nevtípil. Colleagues and colleagues, I really do not need to be a lawyer to conclude, on the basis of these facts, that there are not only a lot of irregularities and uncertainties in the case of the Capi Nest, but above all, there is undisputed evidence. Therefore, I cannot rule out that the entire case of the Cape Nest is politically motivated. Moreover, the entire case is continuously fed by the media, the media spaces in the social network are full of speculation without any proof, and this leads all the way, ladies and gentlemen, so far that some colleagues are threatened with destruction. In conclusion, let me remind you of an important fact. In the last parliamentary term, both Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek were published by the House. Election voters have decided that Andrej Babiš has their trust, and they want him to continue in politics. Andrej Babiš received the strongest mandate from the voters from all politicians. My opinion, which is based on all these facts, and the facts that I have listed here, especially the lack of evidence and the overall inconclusiveness of the materials presented, is that Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek are to be able to carry out the mandate that they have obtained from the citizens of this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u93	Thank you. The next one entered in the general debate is Mrs Válková, Mr Výborný will be prepared. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u94	Mr President, my dear colleagues, of course, the relatively carefully prepared one and I hope that a systematic speech must be reduced for two reasons. A number of arguments and facts, facts and assumptions have already gone away here, and I have also been asked to shorten my speech to the utmost in order to conclude this case. Therefore, if anyone would like to learn more about the analysis that I have spent more hours on, the sense, function and constitutionally legal connection, the Institute of Immunity and in historical development, I will be happy to give the information to him or to her, the interested woman. So forgive me for jumping in medias res, straight to the point that made me even perform at this meeting. I am also a member of the mandate and immunity committee. Unlike my colleague Táňa Malá, who is being threatened in a totally unacceptable way on social networks and is being blamed in the media, as we all know, such media interest has so far eluded me. Therefore, I will be more easily calm in the material plane and hopefully clear for all of you. I do not think that the negotiation of the mandate and immune committee would take place in an atmosphere that would be pleasant for all of us. However, we are, I mean, with the task that imposes on us the provisions of § 45 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) to determine, as an instrument of the institution of the Chamber of Deputies, whether conditions for prosecution are laid down in immune matters and, in this context, to specify, as well as those practices of the House, to outline the procedures to be followed in order to obtain the result with which we can come before the House. This has, I think, been described very thoroughly and carefully in the intelligence report. You've heard that one before. You'll hear the resolution. I'm sure you won't be surprised. We all know how this is going to turn out, already now and in addition, the two main actors themselves are asking for extradition. However, since before we voted on the mandate and immune committee, I have made some assessments in the field that I specialise in, criminal law, so allow me to introduce some of the conclusions to you here too, and perhaps you will understand why we have abstained on the mandate and immune committee, or you will understand better, in the end. Like other members of the mandate and immunity committee, I too had the opportunity to get acquainted with the criminal record and came to the following conclusions after studying it. I will deliberately express myself sometimes too generally precisely because I cannot and do not want to break the confidentiality of the information that I am as a member of the mandate and immune committee... That I had access to, unlike you. A number in the file of those facts allegedly proving the criminality of the proceedings - this is the fulfilling nature of the subsidy fraud under § 212 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (a) the criminal code committed in the form of participation and the factual nature of the damage to the European Union's financial interests pursuant to § 260 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5 of the Criminal Code, also committed in the form of participation, i.e. pursuant to § 24 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) - is not at all, or is only very inconclusive. Another finding that I have reached in the study of the file in question is the finding of the incorrect criminal qualifications of the alleged criminal activity of the accused Andrej Babiš, which leads not only to incorrect legal conclusions, but at the same time also calls into question the professional erudition of the relevant police authorities and then opens logical room for reflection on the explanation of such fundamental errors. In particular, it is a minimally debatable one-off crime of subsidy fraud with a criminal offence of damage to the European Union's financial interests, both as far as its fundamental facts and qualifications are concerned. No less surprising is the construction of participation, whether for the organizer of this crime, which was to be Andrej Babiš, so called. aides where, in my opinion, the police authority has committed elementary errors in the application of the criminal institute of participation to a specific example where the participant in the completed crime, but also his attempt, was not the case, can only be the one who is not the perpetrator or accomplice of the same crime. It follows from the principle of participation action that the participant's criminal liability depends on the criminal liability of the main perpetrator, not on the contrary, as wrongly imported in the resolution on the initiation of the prosecution of Andrej Babiš. [[12.30 hours]] In this criminal case, I consider it a key assessment of the subjective aspect of the culprit of the main perpetrators, which should have been carried out by conscious and deliberate action and by completing the plan of the organizer, accused by Babiš Andrej. We will find a similar description of the subjective side of the helpers who blame themselves for helping to implement the intent of the accused Andrej Babiš through their conscious and intentional infringement. Although - and this is please important - the alleged organizer Andrej Babiš is nowhere in the file - I did not find him - proof that he was organized and framed for criminal offences, yet the police authorities conclude that criminal prosecution can be initiated against him, although it must be clear to him that the evidence, proof of his guilt in the file, at least yet - I do not rule out that they will not be delivered - at least they are absent. Instead, he works with hypotheses and structures that are not based on concrete facts and findings. Therefore, if by doing so, the police authority creates a version which does not rely on concrete evidence, this flagrantly violates the principles enshrined in Section 2 (2) of the Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 6 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which governs the procedure of the police authority - bindingly regulating - to collect evidence. I do not want to and cannot subjugate the role of a prosecutor here, who, in his decision on a complaint in the resolution on the initiation of a criminal prosecution, will take into account the police authority's accidental misconduct, nor the defense attorney pointing out the unreviewability of such a decision for reasons other than those mentioned so far. For example, I was struck by the absence of a specification to demonstrate the alleged damage caused by the European Union's financial interests. I won't go into details again. My task here is not to discuss individual errors, gaps and defects of the police authority's procedural procedure. It is my job to express my surprise at their numerousness, their essential nature, which is also about ignoring some of the recognised conclusions of the criminal doctrine, in part the caselaw. And now, with a certain exaggeration - as far as the accused Jaroslav Faltýnek is concerned, his criminal case is significantly simpler and the lack of evidence is even more flagrant. Here, I am even very likely to estimate the state's attorney's procedure today, which will probably be forced to either return or stop the case in his decision to complain about the defendant's complaint until the prosecution is opened. Allow me finally to conclude on what I have said here. I can't, even in view of the time and the obligation to remain silent, detail everything I've read in the files and what I've created, the picture of myself, the information I received by visiting the prosecutor and the police on the mandate and immunity committee. However, the two criminal cases, both the criminal prosecution of Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek, in my opinion, can already be assessed about this way. It suffers from one major flaw, namely the lack of evidence, particularly on the subjective side of criminal offences, faulty criminal qualifications, and in terms of the political timing of the whole action to a very tense period before the elections to the Chamber of Deputies and now to a time when it is a future government, and of course we are also on the verge of presidential elections. It is therefore not possible to resist reasonable suspicion of misuse of criminal law to weaken a political opponent. I underline, as a lawyer, strong suspicion, not certainty. That is why I, together with my colleagues in the mandate and immune committee, abstained in the vote on the motion for a resolution on the extradition of Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek. As the club of the ANO movement, after presenting information from us members of the mandate and the Immune Committee, adopted a united position, voting in the House on this point against the extradition of both Members, even though they themselves ask for their extradition - and I specifically asked for it there - and expressing my support for them, I will join them in this position, as the information and facts I have found in the files and, in essence, in the statements of the state prosecutor and the police authority fully justify this position to me. In addition, in recent years, I have been a direct witness to a number of similar politicized cases, where particular interests have prevailed over public interest, which should not always be a weakening of political opponents at municipal, regional or national level by means of criminal law, but a sufficiently rapid and effective investigation of the matter and the distraction of suspicions or the initiation of criminal prosecutions only at the moment - I underline - when enough evidence is already available. Cases such as recently e.g. Michal Hala, Petr Laušman, Alena Vitásková and all the others who have been appointed here are bothering me all the more that those who have prosecuted them and appealed to the higher courts, the prosecutors, will in no way and will never be affected for their actions, even if they are accused, the defendants, and now they will undoubtedly condemn the state with considerable compensation for maladministration or decision. I could name still living cases that I wanted to name, whose actors were on me, virtually. The charges and the defendants are turning to me and showing me or presenting me evidence of their innocence as a Member. In view of my current position - I have suspended legal activity - I can do nothing but draw attention to these cases, but since I do not have confidence in the state's attorney and police in these cases that it would then go to the fault of these living cases, I will not mention these names here, although I have the consent. That is why, among other things, I did not sign as Minister of Justice and did not submit a proposal for a new law on the prosecutor's office, which, in criminal matters of an economic nature, disproportionately strengthened the independence, but also the irresponsibleness of prosecutors without significantly tightening their disciplinary liability in the event of serious professional misconduct. I am very pleased now, and I think that this should be a good lesson for all of us when someone once again comes up with a proposal to strengthen independence - I want to say the same with Marie Benešová to absolute independence - prosecutors without at the same time tightening up their disciplinary responsibility. And to live up to what I think each of us should always respect in our work, a certain degree of independence, fairness, objectivity. So I wouldn't have to do it, but yesterday she arrived at the House of Petitions, calling on Members to issue Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek for prosecution. It meets the requirements of petition law No. 85/1990, and even though we haven't discussed it yet, I just want to keep her posted. Those citizens - only six and 23 electronic signatures below - ask for the release of Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek. And I have a flooded e-mail with petitions or requests that don't meet these demands, and in this context I just want to say that the opposite - every day they walk - is asking us not to publish again, because they see politics in it. So this petition meets the requirements, we'd be right to discuss it in a month or two, but if I have the option, I want to inform you about it. Those who have signed shall request the possibility of criminal prosecution and extradition of both Members. [[12.40 hours]] Finally, I would just like to say that this has been twice as difficult for me, because I did not want to embezzle myself with my, say, knowledge of criminal law, which I added and deepened with knowledge of constitutional law, and with good knowledge and conscience I will vote against extradition. Because, as in the cases already cited here, Mr Kailová, Mr Růžička, Mr Svoboda, I believe that, unfortunately, the Institute of Immunity is the only one that can protect us from what we should always prevent. And that is before abuse of criminal law means to weaken a political opponent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u95	The President of Farský is on the verdict. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, but I am losing it. I would at least expect minimal integrity. But if I'm reading from the tapestry of February 4, 2014, Mr Vondráček's statement saying that "we are not here to replace the activities of law enforcement authorities by deciding whether or not to publish. If we have confidence in independent justice here, if we have confidence in the police, functioning by uncorrupted police, then let the colleague clear himself in criminal proceedings." And I am now continuing with Mrs Válková's statement also for the YES movement, which says: "So I would like to join Mr Vondráček's speaker, saying that we should not replace the criminal court by respecting the principle of presumption of innocence. And like him, I believe that Mr Svoboda" - but you can place Mr Babiš, Faltýnek - 'in front of our independent criminal courts, if he is ever put before a criminal trial, if the prosecutor does not stop the prosecution, he will be cleared. And I think it's gonna be more satisfaction for him than if we just decided to move the time by four years." What changed? Where's your integrity? That's how much you liked it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u97	A real comment by Mrs Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, thank you for the question. I will answer very briefly with the words of Winston Churchill. I'm paraphrasing, but the content is the same, and you can check it out. In politics, it is wise to change your mind at times. Unfortunately, I have changed my opinion on this issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u99	Mr Blažek's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u100	I'll try to be brief too. So let's try to generalize it a little bit. Well, the ANO movement started - like any revolutionary movement, let's say - with a lot of things being very bad and having to be canceled. So I would just like to ask the ANO movement and Mr Babiš personally to set up, next time, at the various institutions that the prime minister's ancestors back here for, say, 150 years, a little bit of thought about whether they were stupid enough to set up institutions such as immunity, or whether we, who are in the current moods of the media and others, are ever stupid when we want to disrupt or restrict these institutions. This isn't just about this, so I'll generalize what my colleague Válková said. This may not be a change of heart, but if there is less revolution on the part of the ANO movement and more thought about certain things that may remain from the old days, it will only be good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u101	With a factual remark, Vice-President Filip is registered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ma'am and gentlemen, I do not think it must always be a change of heart. I maintain my view of maintaining immunity at all times because I believe that we need to think about whether we want to honor the division of power or not. And if there is a separation of power between legislative, executive and judicial power, that immunity is no advantage. That's defending one power from another. I must say that, as a lawyer in the 1990s, I have several political cases in my closet that relate, for example, to disputes between executive and judicial powers. And I'm not gonna quote them here. So please those who say we're gonna cancel the immunity idol, and they're calling for it, and they have thumb headlines in some newspapers like they're the ones who just trade something like that, no matter what they go for. If they want a dictatorship where only one will decide all three powers, then please. But the moment you acknowledge the need for power division, don't repeat it, fellow Members, esteemed colleagues. Or say you want something other than a parliamentary democracy, which is the foundation of our Czech constitutionality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u103	President Chvojka has entered the general debate with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. So the debate has been melted again, and it's longer than I expected. From this point on, we have come to see whether European funds are harmful or harmful. I don't think it belongs here. I would like to go back a little bit to what is really going on here, and I would like to mention two things. First thing. As a lawyer, as a Member, as a former Minister of Legislation, I am shocked by what the Prime Minister said today, and that is that we live in a country where prosecution can be ordered. Of course, I wouldn't want to live in a state like this, and I can't live in that, and I believe that was said only in some excitement, because this is simply not possible. I'm sure it's every suspect's right to defend himself as he can, a mixture of different truths, half truths, lies, half lies. But if the Prime Minister of this country says so, of course, it is devastating and devastating for this society. After all, it is necessary to mention how this - and this has already been mentioned by our colleague Zaorálek - can be said by the Prime Minister of this country when - we too, I admit - we have been sitting in that government for the last four years, and we have not been in it for a month - but for example the last four, for example, were managed by the Honorable colleague Válková and now colleague Pelikán. So how is this possible that we have a company where you can pay or order prosecution? That's at least a mistake if I don't really believe in this, because that's what I'd have to move out of this republic. If this is really possible, where is the responsibility, for example, of the Minister of Justice? Because this investigator I don't even know, he's checking him out, or he's being checked out by the city prosecutor, the D.A., these two important institutions. How come somebody can say we can prosecute for orders here? So that's how I read on Monday in one of my favorite weekly newspapers, compromises, or compromises justice, and that's inappropriate in a democratic society, impossible, unwanted. And I repeat, it's devastating! This can't work like this. The Prime Minister of this country cannot say that criminal prosecutions can be ordered in the Czech Republic. I don't want to live in a country like this, and I believe that's not the case. But where is the responsibility? Where is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, for example, if that were the case? And so I have for Minister Pelikán - he's not sitting here anymore, unfortunately, I don't see him. I hope he's listening. Firstly, I would like to ask him or call on him to submit a report on the development of compensation for maladministration. I mean, for the illegal prosecutions or charges that undoubtedly take place in every state. In every state. In America, in Germany, everything happens that you're being unfairly prosecuted. But I doubt it's a system error. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice whether he can confirm that the Ministry of Justice is not in time to deal with the requests, i.e. those requests I have referred to, maladministration, unlawful prosecution, and whether he has discussed this matter or whether he will negotiate with the Supreme Prosecutor on this matter. Because it is the government that is responsible for criminal policy. It's the government headed by Prime Minister Babiš, who says we have a system where you can order prosecutions on order. [[12.50 hours]] So I absolutely don't understand. It's devastating for me when a citizen reads it, now it doesn't matter what server, thumb subtitles. You can order a custom prosecution. That's devastating for our society. If a normal person reads it, what would he think? That he just lives in a state he shouldn't live in. But, of course, if such a thing were possible, if such a thing is possible in this state, then the responsibility is the very Prime Minister who says so. And at the very least, it's the responsibility of the Minister of Justice to oversee the prosecution's proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u105	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Kolovratník is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u106	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna use my time to use it to make a point. It will be a reaction to colleagues Blažek and Farský, when they turned to Helena Válková, a colleague of Vondráček, was mentioned Josef Hájek. I was wrong too. I will confess here publicly and to my constituents in the Pardubice Region who are anxiously following me, us and our positions. Yes, I, too, in August, when the report, the request came for the first time, was questioned by the press, so I clearly lived in the belief that we shouldn't hide for immunity. Unfortunately, there's been a process that's happened, and I'm not going to repeat it and delay it. But what I haven't heard today, and it's one of those moments -- remember the second day of the House's establishing meeting when the House wasn't set up and the police were already here at the reception somewhere. I was very impressed by what I heard from my colleague Táňa Malá. So, colleagues and colleagues, yes, I confess, I was wrong. It was a mistake, I have no problem admitting it. And the only thing I'm sorry about is, unfortunately, about the mistake, about what's human, about the misconception, has led me to the events of the last days and weeks. That is why my position today will be against extradition, and so unfortunately it will be contrary to what I said six months ago. But that's how I feel, and that's how I want to confess to you here and on a factual note about my colleagues Farský and Blažek. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u107	Before we return to the written submissions of the general debate, I will introduce you to other apologies from today's meeting. Between 12.45 and 19.00, Mr Pávek apologizes due to the meeting in the electoral region. Mr Jan Řehounek apologizes for today's meeting from 13.15 a.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons. The next speaker is Mr Výborný. A Member of Parliament will be ready to call the Rozvoral. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u108	Vice-President, thank you. Dear Government, colleagues, it is my duty here to interpret the opinion of a member of the mandate and immune committee as well as the opinion of the KDU-ČSL Club. Just let me make a quick comment on what Chvojka here said. Yes, even for me, even for us, it is absolutely scandalous what has been said here from the Prime Minister's mouth. And I would like to quote the Attorney General Pavel Zeman: "Unsubstantiated political statements about investigations undermine the credibility of justice, and it cannot defend itself. " I think it needs to be made clear here, because then we're really at the edge of the rule of law, and I think that's something that we're going to be very difficult to explain to the public. But since time is ticking, and I would like us to vote on this matter, I will cut short my prepared performances. If anyone would like to address the issue of the scope of immunity, I will just refer to the Constitutional Court's decision of 16 June 2015, where, for example, from point 32, the Constitutional Court is doing this quite thoroughly. I'll take just a few points, a few points. Mr Faltýnek and Prime Minister Babiš have repeatedly heard details from the whole file, questions of sufficient evidence or lack of evidence. Mrs Válková spoke here about the procedural errors of investigators, the defects that are there. I want to say that this is not at all a matter of considering a mandate and an immune committee. We are really only here to assess whether or not the whole thing is directly linked to a political order. I would like to point out that the factual nature in question, which is mentioned in the file, is related to 2007, 2008. At that time, Prime Minister Babiš was not a politician, he even publicly claimed that he would never be a politician. He did his business, just like his family, no one stopped him from doing it and didn't stop him. Of course, it must also be said that the same measure is needed for all of them, and that, therefore, the laws were meant to apply to all of them at that time as they were today. So if I allow myself to paraphrase the Prime Minister's words, I have used common sense, I have seen the arguments. I, too, have carefully studied the whole file as a member of the mandate committee and, on the basis of the examination of this file and the report that was then attached there, can say with full knowledge and a clear conscience that the matter is not in conflict with the exercise of the mandate, and as a member of the committee, I voted in favour of the two Members. Really, let's not confuse these things. We're not here as investigators. And I repeat - whether or not there are enough evidence, the independent court must decide whether or not to do so, and then decide whether or not to do so, and then decide whether or not to do so. And just a little notic at the end. When Mr Faltýnek here quoted Mr Kalousek so trash, I want to assure you all that I do not really decide according to Mr Kalousek's statements or any of you, but I do decide according to my consciousness and conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u109	It is now Mr.Dr.Rozvoral's turn. After that, Mr. Rozner will have the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear government, allow me to comment on the request of the Police of the Czech Republic on the extradition of Members of Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek to prosecute and on our work in the mandate and immune committee dealing with this issue. To begin with, the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement Tomio Okamura - SPD has been promoting its proper and objective investigation since the outbreak of the Capi Nest case began. This was also proof of the vote on the last parliamentary term, in the autumn of last year, of all three of our Members, who voted on the recommendation of the then mandate and immune committee, i.e. from mediated information, for extradition. I am very pleased that the mediated information thanks to the SPD voters has turned into direct information during this parliamentary term through two SPD representatives in the mandate and immune committee of the present House. Thanks to this representation, we were able to get acquainted with the request for extradition and study the whole file in detail. It was also very important for us that we could listen to the police investigator, the prosecutor and both Members. I know that the mandate and immune committee is not in the position of an investigative body and that it is in his opinion only to examine whether it is not a politicized case in any issue. However, in the case of the Chapi Nest case, there is a great suspicion of politicizing it, especially its timing for the time exactly before the elections and expressions of some people not only in the media space. On the basis of these comments, I also initiated last week on Wednesday the invitation of former anti-Mafia police officer Jiří Komárek at the last meeting of the mandate and immune committee, despite the huge opposition of some of its members. Mr Komárek spoke in the media and in a court that discussed another case, about a lot of interesting information that suggests that suspicion of a politicised case is appropriate and that the timing of the request for extradition by both Members just before the election might have been on a political order. However, Mr Komárek was not deprived of the Minister of the Interior's silence, so we could not hear him, which is a great pity. [[13.00 hours]] What surprised me to discuss this extradition request and what I consider to be scandalous is that we have not yet been provided with a report by the European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, in an official translation into the Czech language. He's part of the file, and I don't understand why the police are taking so long. I would also like to comment here on the comments made by some of my colleagues in the House and in the media who were not really saying so when they commented on the committee's vote on the deadline for the last meeting of the mandate and immune committee that we voted on last week on Tuesday. Mr Michálek and Mrs Němcová have said several times that the deadline for the last meeting of the committee was voted by ANO Members together with the SPD Members. It is not true, as I personally voted in favour of the proposal by one of my colleagues, who proposed last week a meeting of the mandate and immunity committee within six days of the official translation of OLAF's report into the Czech language. I've been delayed on the other dates. So it's just to specify the lies already mentioned by colleagues towards the SPD. Finally, let me convey the opinion of the SPD on the request of the Police of the Czech Republic on the extradition of members of Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek for criminal prosecution. Due to major irregularities in the application for a subsidy and its partial non-transparency, the entire case needs to be investigated properly and objectively, which can only be carried out by law enforcement authorities and, where appropriate, by an independent court. That is why my colleague Rozner and I recommended that the SPD Parliamentary Club vote in favour of the extradition of both Members, and we both voted on the mandate and immune committee as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u111	I would like to thank Mr Rozvoral and ask for further speeches in the general debate. I have Mr. Rozner's application. Otherwise, have a good afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u112	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the House meeting, which concerns the extradition or non-release of colleagues Babiš and Faltýnek, will end, I believe, the long speculation accompanying this case in recent weeks. There is speculation about various agreements between SPD, KSČM and YES. There's speculation about obstructions and other nonsense. I do not want to speculate here myself, but it is still necessary to mention two essential circumstances which I perceive as a member of the mandate and immune committee. Firstly, it is necessary to investigate how it happened that money intended for small and medium-sized enterprises ended up in the hands of a company which is definitely not a small or medium-sized entrepreneur. In this context, the responsibility of those who allocated and controlled the grant must be investigated in my view. Secondly, unfortunately, I have to say that political dance and some of the circumstances surrounding the process of publishing or not publishing both colleagues have unfortunately politicised the whole thing and creates an atmosphere that is detrimental to the complete investigation of this case. The way Kalousek's colleague is cut into the case, politicizing... [[laughter and applause from the left side of the hall and partly from the right]] Let's do it again. The way Kalousek's colleague is cut into the case is merely recording the case's politicalization. Like the entire SPD club, I will vote for the release of both colleagues. I firmly believe that further investigations by law enforcement authorities will produce results that will be objective and contribute to the end of the case. Ending without unnecessary political circus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u113	I thank Mr Rozner and I have Mr Jakub Michálek in the next order, and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Today we are discussing the request of the Police of the Czech Republic, in which Members of Babiš and Faltýnek are accused of committing subsidy fraud and damage to the financial interests of the European Union, simply by organising or helping to attract subsidies from the European Union for small and medium-sized enterprises and subsequently - although the company owned by Andrej Babiš was a large enterprise, Agrofert, which owns a lot and a lot of billions - and subsequently Andrej Babiš was to transfer this company to their children, these children were to manage it, although Andrej Babiš continued to be the owner, and after the period of sustainability of the project, which is laid down by the European Union regulation for five years, the company was transferred back to Agrofert. So that's the essence of the request we're discussing today. The Pirates Club has always been based on the fact that all citizens are equal before the law, that we have a rule of law here. And immunity is an exception to this rule, which has its own special prerequisites. That is why the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are also talking about the need to assess the conditions in the immune matters in our negotiations. So there's no point in speculating here about who's guilty or not guilty, it makes sense to see if there are any suspicions that she was, for example. used by the police against the Members in such a way that they are deprived of their mandate or in any way damaged. I would now return to the act that was to be done in order to recall what the negotiations are, let's say, the suspects of the crime we are discussing today at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. The Structural Funds Regulation was issued in 2006. In 2007 - and now I draw from the publicly available article Mladá fronta Today, owned by Andrej Babiš through the trust fund, so it is certainly not appropriate to question the information there. In 2007, ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, a company belonging to Agrofert Andrej Babiš, decided on the release of the so-called anonymous stocks. This step hides its still transparent ownership structure. At some point in 2008, the company is renamed the Tea Nest and there are either Agrofert lawyers, Agrofert suppliers or relatives of Andrej Babiš performing in statutory bodies. Consequently, it receives the subsidy and in 2014, once the five-year deadline for monitoring compliance with the conditions for granting the subsidy expires, the company returns to Imoba, so under the wing of Andrej Babiš. I wanted to address some false or misleading information that I believe was heard in the Prime Minister's speech. The Prime Minister says there is nothing in the Olaf report about fraud. I printed it from the server Aktuálně cz, which is therefore owned by Mr Bakala, but I also verified it in the original report, which I had the opportunity to read, so it does not matter that Mr Bakala owns it, because it is simply written there, so it is stated in the olaf report: olaf's investigation concluded that the family ties between the persons involved in the ownership of the Chapi Nest farm, a. s., and Agrofert holding, a. s. seem to have provided these persons with the opportunity to operate together in order to influence the business decisions of the undertakings concerned, which makes it impossible for these companies to be viewed as economically independent entities. These two undertakings may be considered as linked under the relevant legislation. Now it's a drain. These infringements may form the basis for legal proceedings on the basis of appropriate measures of the Czech Criminal Code on subsidy fraud and damage to the financial interests of the European Union. - So many messages, citations from the Olaf report. It's not true, as the Prime Minister said, that there was no mention of fraud in the report. Two. The Prime Minister referred to the fact that only as a result of the case-law was the conduct that was held against him by the police authority assessed as a subsidy fraud. Here I would like to refer to Article three of the European Commission's recommendations on the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises. There it is explained that for the purposes of calculation it is necessary to see what is called. an independent undertaking. If the Cape's nest was an independent enterprise. The recommendation explicitly states that the independent undertaking was not an undertaking which was so called. partner or which was connected. Andrej Babiš himself said that there was a partnership, even a strategic partnership between Capi Nest and Agrofert. And we also have a link here through a group of people, as OLAF has already said, through family relations. [[13.10 hours]] So I wanted to show that what he said wasn't true, at least according to the documents at our disposal, Mr. Prime Minister, about the fact that they were based on some later caselaw. No, it is already included in the recommendation on the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises in 2003. Another thing the Prime Minister said was that it was only covered by the treaty and therefore that they did not violate any European documents. Here I would like to say that a regulation was issued by the European Union on the Structural Funds in 2006, which regulates aid to small and medium-sized enterprises. And, of course, the regulation is also directly applicable at the level of a Member State of the European Union. Of course, the conditions of the subsidy are even referred to in the relevant grant agreements for this Regulation and the recommendations. So much for the information, respectively. rather misinformation, which the Prime Minister said here in his defence. And now I would get to the last, perhaps the most important part, whether there are grounds for any suspicion that this case was organized by the mob to eliminate Andrej Babiš. I asked this particular question to the mandate and immune committee. And now I'm sending - indeed, but I can really say here what I asked about the mandate and immune committee. If anybody's making it up that we can't say what we said on any committee, even if it's not public, I'd like to refer it to the opinion of the Department of Legislation, where this error is clearly refuted. The obligation of confidentiality applies only to cases where it is regulated by law, such as the commission of inquiry, non-public meetings of the commission of inquiry, such as the identity of offenders not known in criminal proceedings, etc. But it's not all that happens on the mandate and immune committee. So on this mandate and immune committee, I asked what the suspicions were. And I think it's a matter of general interest for us to identify here. And the Prime Minister said two things. First, he left - because I wanted to hear specific reasons, not only did some mob organize something here. So, first of all, he said that Mr. Jiří Komárek, in his defense, spoke of a mob, etc. However, Mr Komárek was wrongfully convicted of misappropriation of the authority of an official person, and the Attorney General said that Mr Komárek could never legally access information about the interrogation of this case. So if there's ever any such information, it's definitely not from a legal criminal trial. The second fact was that Mr. Investigator Nevtípil should have been involved in the Neograph case. Once again, we asked the D.A. to comment on this, and we didn't find that Mr. Didn't Nevtípil anything in the context of the investigation into this case. Of course, there could have been some mistake, something could have gone wrong, etc. There was also not a very well-known prosecutor Máchová, but there is no concrete indication that investigator Pavel did not Nevtípil in any way in this case. If the members of the ANO movement are there for the fact that Andrej Babiš is under a lot of pressure, then I would like to remind you that they should also consider how the case investigator is terrorized by the Cape Nest. Because the case investigator Chapi Nest is a police officer who has the bad luck that he doesn't own the largest media in the country, that he doesn't have the Ministry of Justice under him, that he doesn't have the Ministry of the Interior and that he doesn't own a holding company with lawyers for tens of billions of crowns. So this guy is in a much worse situation and under a lot more pressure. And we don't want politicians interfering in this huge way and with this huge machine in an independent investigation of the police and the prosecutor's office. I think, on the contrary, when a reference was made to the fact that Bakal's media was involved in this, the only misinformation and political manipulation that has been proven here - and everyone can verify it in the media - was made public, so Lidové noviny, which is owned by Mr Babiš's trust, and the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic, which published on its website completely misleading information about what was contained in OLAF's report because it published the conclusions of the recommendations attached to this report, but not the conclusions of the report itself. I don't think the Treasury could work in this way. Lidové noviny, too, was based on some information that was slipped to them. So when they made their fantastic conclusions that olaf's report did not talk about fraud, and other similar lies, they were based on a document that was definitely not an Olaf report, as received by the Czech Republic. I think that the involvement of state institutions and the huge media in misinformation about this case and its political influence is far worse. Because none of us, at least here, as we opposition MPs for the Pirates, do not own the media. We don't have the resources that the YES movement has, we don't even have the ministries to influence the investigation of the case in this way. Finally, I would like to turn against what has been said here against politicians, that there is someone here who feeds on politics. I think making honest policy for people is far better than just making a living with subsidies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u115	I thank Mr Michálek and I have a technical one here, so Mrs Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u116	Thank you for the floor. I'll make quick use of the time. Mr Michálek, through Mr President, I will allow myself to straighten out the information I have already learned from the media here in front of everyone. That we published some kind of accompanying letter. I explained in detail, and it's in all of the Ministry of Finance's press releases, why we actually released the information to the extent that we released it. The Ministry of Finance receives several OLAF reports every year. He never publishes one. Here, following some 80 requests under Law 106, we published information based on a request from the Municipal Prosecutor on OLAF's conclusions that these conclusions are integral - that is no accompanying letter - that is an integral part of the final report, and it is a recommendation that OLAF gives to the European Commission. Otherwise on the web you can find, we have actually partially rejected all requests and each of these reasons has four parties where you will find out why in detail. However, beyond that, I say that, if I am not mistaken, through Mr President, you have received the full OLAF report in the original on the basis of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u117	I thank the Minister, and with another factual remark, I have the President Pavel Bělobrádek here. He'll be ready. I've got Mr. Jakub Michálek here for another de facto. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u118	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, I would like to comment on the presumption of innocence. It sounded like it was here. I can say for KDU-ČSL that we honor her because we never said that the gentlemen were guilty. We never said he stole anything, not one of them, or he cheated. We never said it because it's up to the law enforcement authorities. The Chamber of Deputies will now not rule on guilt or innocence, let alone punishment. We merely issue, if necessary, both masters for criminal proceedings and for law enforcement authorities to be able to act. Nor can elections replace the activities of law enforcement authorities. The election wasn't a matter of decision-making about guilt and punishment. And thirdly, I would like to see members of the ANO movement, when their boss here calls people thieves, and he identifies several of them here, even specifying the last name of the person who has ever stolen something here and that he is a thief, so I wonder that you will come out flamingly and say that something like the presumption of innocence applies. Because you are very often in different categories than others, and you are very often acting like hypocrites, and you do not do what you ask for others. And remember, you had something in your own regulations about what would happen if someone were prosecuted, and then you took it out quietly. So don't be hypocrites. And when your boss here calls people thieves, whether specific or other MPs, with thieves sitting here, I wonder if you'll step out and say, "There's some kind of presumption of innocence."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u119	Thank you. And I will ask Mr Jakub Michálek for another factual request. Then I have two priority rights for the debate, and it will be Mr Farský and Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u120	I have a point of fact that I respond to Secretary of Finance Schillerová. This is the Ministry of Finance website where it says: The Ministry of Finance is publishing conclusions from OLAF's report on the Chape's nest. [[shows on his laptop]] It's a headline. It is written below: the Ministry of Finance assessed the requests received and, on the basis of the analysis carried out, published substantial conclusions reached by OLAF in its investigation. So the Ministry of Finance states on its website that it published the conclusions of the OLAF report, but it did not actually publish the conclusions of the OLAF report, but part of the letter that was a follow-up letter. That's why I'm begging you, the next time you publish the information, you're gonna publish the true information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u121	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now with priority rights, President Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the opinion of the Mayor's Club and independent of the issue. We believe that justice is not to be sought in He's not even supposed to be hiding from her here. That immunity - and I quote this - should apply only to the statements made in the House and should not apply to anything else, because there are no superhumans in Members. It is Mr. Andrej Babiš's quote from 13 April 2017 and I agree with him. And I hope that you who have witnessed this 4.5-hour marathon of dungeon of filth on all those who have taken the liberty of expressing any doubt will not respond by making Mr. Faltýnek and Mr. Babiš some superhumans of their own, but you will simply give them a chance to clean up in a classic trial. And I hope that such a situation will not happen again here in the House. Such a situation that 59 days here the House has been blocked by the fact that it is skewing here from justice, hiding behind various cases, various assaults by prosecutors, assaulting the police, assaulting the courts, discrediting them, and when a report comes from Olaf, so is the misbehavior of Olaf. These damages, which are caused by the attacks of democratic institutions and those on which the rule of law stands, are far greater than some 50 million Capi's nest. It's 59 days lost. Why? Because what probably happened is that the extradition or non-release negotiations became part of the government's support negotiations. I find it disgusting. I hope that this will end, and I hope that the effort of that minority government, capable of ruling without trust in the House, will soon succeed, too, with the confidence of President Zeman at the Castle. Thank you. The opinion of the Mayor and the independent club has been heard and our votes will be attached to the prosecution of Mr Faltýnek and Mr Babiš, because they are not superhumans. I hope you'll join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u123	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And I'll ask for another performance with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u124	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me my subjective assessment. I believe that the debate that we have had all morning has not brought too much new, and I do not think that it has forced any of us to change our minds. So theoretically, if it was much shorter, nothing happened. Yet there was one very fundamental sentence. It was delivered by the Prime Minister and said that we live in a country where it is possible to order prosecution and put someone in jail. No one in the fourth beer price group said that. This is what the Prime Minister in the Chamber of Deputies said and made this statement to the public. I want to believe that's not the case. But the only one who can assure us of that is the Minister of Justice. For four years, the Minister of Justice held his office and exercised political control over the prosecutor's office, who is the master in criminal proceedings. Mr. Justice Minister, this is a really serious moment. Please nicely, either confirm now the words of your Prime Minister that we live in a country where it is possible to order prosecution and put someone in jail, then I think you should leave your office immediately, because this is the only objective assessment I've ever heard about your work if it were true or demente it and assure the public that we are not living in a country where it is possible to order prosecution and to put someone in jail! Either we live in a legal state or we don't live in a legal state. Your Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, has publicly made this assessment of your four-year work, and I think the public deserves to hear your response. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u125	Thank you to President Kalousek. I have no requests or factual remarks, so I have Mrs Kateřina Valachová, who has duly signed up for the debate. So, madam, please, you have the floor. But before that, I'm sorry, I have two apologies. Mrs Monika Oborná apologises from 14:00 to the end of the meeting and President Vojtěch Filip apologizes from 13:30 on account of the working session also until the end of the meeting. Mrs Oborná for personal reasons. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u126	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Government, the Chamber of Deputies cannot send people a signal that they do not believe in the rule of law, do not believe in the control of the prosecutor's office, and even that they do not believe in the courts. It is not the police, it is not the prosecutors, it is not the courts who abuse criminal law in political warfare, between political parties, to weaken political opponents or within political parties. I admire those Members and Members who have such courage, or perhaps pride, that they are investigators, that they are prosecutors, that they are judges and that some perform all three functions simultaneously! Unbelievable. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Whether every politician reaches into his conscience whether or not he does so, whether he passes judgment without trial or even without accusation or even without mere suspicion, because the purpose justifies the means. Thanks to this - and we did it ourselves - we will not be voting only on the waiver of the immunity of two Members in a moment, because the parliamentary immunity is dead. She's long dead. We will vote on whether or not the Czech Republic is a legal state and whether we believe in it. I will vote in favour of the extradition of both Members, but not because - and now I don't give a damn what comes to my response to social networks - that I would be convinced of their guilt. I'm not convinced of their guilt. But I believe in the rule of law!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u127	Madam, thank you for your words. Let me see if we have anyone else registered for the general debate... Mr Fiala with priority rights, President of the SPD and subsequently President Kalousek, also with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, allow me a brief opinion on the SPD movement to make it official. We, as SPD, voted in favour of the issue in the last parliamentary term. And I am saying this because we were constantly suspected by some journalists, political commentators and fellow politicians of some kind of hand over the extradition or non-issue of both Members. So we didn't conjecture. I would like our policy to be clear and understandable for all of you. And, of course, the entire SPD will vote in favour of Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek's extradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u130	Just very briefly. I'll try it again. My previous performance was no rhetorical poke. My previous performance drew attention to the seriousness of the moment. The Prime Minister said that we live in a country - and he told ten million people who are assured that we have equality before the law. The Prime Minister said that we live in a country where you can order prosecution and put someone in jail. Minister Pelikán, are you really not going to respond to this? Are you really gonna sit here like a coward, or am I gonna be polite, like an opportunist? And you'll keep your mouth shut? And do you really think that's the sentence of your Prime Minister that you're going to cut your losses by judging your four-year job as Minister of Justice? Minister Pelikán, try to be a man for a moment and tell us something!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u131	I thank Prime Minister Kalousek for his word. I'll see if we have anyone else logged in. I don't see anyone. I hereby conclude the general debate and ask if anyone is in the mood for a final word. Designer? Sorry. The rapporteur? A petitioner? No. So I am opening a detailed debate, and I have the rapporteur, Ms Kateřina Valachová, here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u132	So I'm the only one talking like a woman. [[Laughter and unique applause from the right.]] As stated in his opening speech by the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, at the end of the discussion of the request of the Regional Directorate of the Police of the capital city of Prague for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek, the mandate and immunity committee adopted Resolution No. 38 and No. 39 that was distributed to you on the bench. By voting, we will decide to give our consent. The Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek. The mandate and immune committee shall propose a separate vote. Allow me to make both proposals. First motion for a resolution No 38: "The Chamber of Deputies referred to in Article 27 (2) shall: 4 of Law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended, and pursuant to Section 12 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, agrees to prosecute Mr . Andrej Babiš, born September 2, 1954." Whole motion for a resolution The Chamber of Deputies is set out in resolution No. 38 that was handed out to you by the bench. I believe that the whole text bounded by quotation marks does not need to be read. Second motion for a resolution No 39: "The Chamber of Deputies referred to in Article 27 (2) shall: 4 of Law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended, and pursuant to Section 12 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, agrees to prosecute Mr Ing. Jaroslav Faltýnek, born April 28, 1962." Whole motion for a resolution The Chamber of Deputies is set out in resolution No. 39 that was distributed to you on the bench. I believe that the whole text bounded by quotation marks does not need to be read. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-19-ps2017-006-03-002-040.u133	I thank the rapporteur for introducing us to the motion for a resolution. I have no one else enrolled in the detailed debate, so I am ending the detailed debate. I want to ask if you're interested, either of you, in the final word. You're not interested. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall therefore proceed to the vote on the proposals tabled. I'll check you all out. Checkout's over. We're all logged in? Members' cards are still popping up, so we'll wait for them to settle down. Is it settled? He's still bouncing. I will not repeat those resolutions again. I would simplify this by saying, first of all, that we will vote on the resolution on Andrej Babiš and then I would say that we will vote on the resolution on Jaroslav Faltýnek. I think it's pretty clear to everyone. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of the resolution on Andrej Babiš? Whoever opposes the resolution concerning Andrej Babiš, raise your hand, press the button. Item 40, vote number 29, 180 Members signed up for 111 Members, 69 Members opposed. The resolution was adopted. We will now proceed to the vote on the second resolution, a resolution on Jaroslav Faltýnek. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of the resolution, please press the button and raise your hand. Who is against the resolution, please press the button and raise your hand. Item 40, vote number 30, 180 Members signed up for 111 Members against 69 Members. The resolution was adopted. On the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of all Members' Clubs, I conclude today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and the next time we start on Tuesday at 14:00. Have a nice weekend. Have a good day.
