ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-016-040.u1	40. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on a comprehensive approach to the protection, security and provision of services in football matches and other sporting events (July 3, 2016, Saint - Denis) /German press 60/ - first reading The proposed proposal will be presented again by the Interior Minister Lubomír Metnar. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-016-040.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies, gentlemen, security in or near stadiums during sporting events, particularly football matches, and international cooperation in this area has been contracted by the so-called 1985 Convention on Spectator Violence. However, this Convention does not reflect changes in the procedure and good practice in this area that have taken place in recent years. A new, comprehensive contractual arrangement was thus prepared on the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe Convention on a comprehensive approach to the protection, security and provision of services in football matches and other sporting events does not focus solely on security measures, but recognises the need to ensure cooperation with all public and private sector actors concerned in ensuring protection and security at football matches or other sporting events and a pleasant environment for viewers. [[16.30 hours]] It is a framework document which leaves the Member States to adapt these principles to national conditions and to their legal order. We are already fulfilling the obligations arising from the new Convention of the Czech Republic and there is no need to adopt new legislative measures or increase the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-016-040.u3	Thank you to the rapporteur. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jaroslav Bžoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-016-040.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me present a report to House press number 60. The minister said the most important things. I will only repeat some, that the rules and principles enshrined in the Convention are to be obligatory implemented for football matches, which will be attended by professional football clubs and national representation. The application of the Convention to other sports or sporting events is then left to the parties' decision. The adoption of the Convention will not have direct implications for the State budget, given that the obligations under the Convention are already fulfilled. I'm just gonna finish with a maybe a little comment. Since the Council of Europe is also involved in private business, such as football, to ensure the safety of these matches from our taxes, it might be worth looking at how much money we have spent over the last few years, for example, on Sparta and Baník Ostrava football matches, because we still lack money in sport. And maybe the money would have been better spent if it had gone into sports than to secure private events.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-016-040.u5	There. I thank the rapporteur for his first reading to Mr Jaroslav Bžoch, and I hereby open a general debate and see if there is any interest. I do not see any interest in speaking in the general debate, so I conclude the general debate and ask Mr Jaroslav Bžoch as rapporteur and Home Secretary Lubomír Metnar if you are interested in the final word. You're not interested in the final word. So we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. And I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. I can't see. So we would proceed to the vote. I'll reengage. Who, then, agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee? Initiating vote now. Please press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. It's vote 137. 140 Members are registered, for 122, versus zero. The motion was accepted. So I'm saying that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. So I'm done discussing this point. The next item on today's agenda for the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies is item number
