ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u1	9. Mr Petr Fiala's proposal, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Mr Jana Černochová and others for the issue of the Act repealing Act No. 223/2016 Coll., on Sales Time in Retail and Wholesale, as amended /house print 21/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as House press number 21/1. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] prosit have Mr Petr Fiala, Mr Petr Fiala, present the proposal. [[Information off the microphone.]] Well, in that case, there's a change in the plaintiff's representative, Martin Kupka will state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u2	Good evening again, dear colleagues. We dare to submit a simple bill. A law repealing the Sales Time Act in retail and wholesale, i.e. a law prohibiting sales in stores with a sales area of more than 200 metres on selected public holidays. The law existed for a year and a half and brought a whole series of complications. It has also brought unnecessary interference in people's lives and in the rights of entrepreneurs. Unexpected complications have affected, for example, pharmacies, people's opportunities to get medicine for public holidays. It has caused complications in many sectors, where it has become suddenly complicated so that restaurants and hotels can buy goods in wholesale, for example, that are rapidly corrupting. All of this is just a brief account of the serious problems that the ban has brought. [[There's constant restlessness and unpleasant noise levels in the room.]] The important thing is that even the plaintiffs... [[I beg you to remain calm in the hall!]] The important thing is that even the plaintiffs could never justify how they chose the selected public holidays, the key to this. And so now we're dealing with the fact that it's really messed up, and a lot of people really don't know which state holiday stores are gonna be open and when they're gonna be closed. Another problem is that no one could explain how the area of 200 meters was determined. So how is it possible that all of a sudden the vendors in stores that have, like, 205 metres of sales space have different options and rights than the vendors who work in a store that has a sales area of 195 square meters? So what is the reason for these two groups of people to have completely different options, completely different rights. And I'm not talking about a large group of people who will always have to go to work on public holidays, because that's what their profession requires, and that's what they chose. But the petitioners have very richly argued how this law will improve the way people spend public holidays. [[16.50 hours]] I would like to lead you all out of error if you think such a ban could cause simply people to spend the holidays better. It's really just a social engineering chimera. It is clear that closed doors of shops themselves will certainly not ensure that we will experience a better state holiday, which resembles the Czech statehood, or that we would feel the message of svatý Václav. We want and propose one thing today - to abolish one unnecessary law. I dare say that most of us in the election campaign have addressed voters with how difficult our rule of law is, how we should finally abolish some laws, how we should ensure that there is not so much unnecessary regulation. Okay, folks, now we have an exceptional opportunity to abolish one of these useless laws. That's what we're proposing today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u3	Thank you, too. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jiří Bláha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u4	Hello, Mr President, hello, ladies and gentlemen. Draft Law, House Print 21, repealing Act No. 223/2016 Sb. We heard the petitioners, Petr Fiala and Zbyněk Stanjura and a group of Members. The proposal was submitted to the House 1. 12. The bill envisages a complete repeal of the law. The effectiveness is designed not to depend on the length of the legislative process. A fixed date is not proposed. The reasoned report points out that the original standard is redundant, disproportionately interfering with traders' rights, restricting citizens and distorting the competitive environment. The draft law is in accordance with constitutional order, the obligations of the Czech Republic arising from international treaties and the law of the European Union. No increased cost of the state budget is expected. Government opinion. I'd like you to hear how the government stood up to that. The Government has taken a neutral position on the proposal, pointing out some of the facts which it recommends to take into account in the further discussion of this proposal. The government is aware of the fact that the legislation in force leads to some inequality between different groups of entrepreneurs. Secondly, the Government notes that Law No. 223/2016 Sb., on retail and wholesale selling time, is effective from 1 October 2016 and this period is not long enough to allow comprehensive evaluation of its economic, social, cultural and other impacts. However, the submitted legislative proposal does not address this issue at all, and the explanatory memorandum lacks any analysis of the effects of the law or an assessment of the experience of its application, in particular negative, resulting in the merits of its proposed annulment. At the same time, the government considers it necessary to draw attention to § 3 para. 3 of Law No. 309/1999 Coll., on the Collection of International Treaties, from which it is clear that it is only exceptionally possible to determine the beginning of the effectiveness of the date of publication, if this requires urgent general interest. That's all. And I recommend, as rapporteur, not to accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u5	Thank you, too. And now I have Mrs GajdůGajdůšková in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u6	Mr President, Dear Government, Honored House, on a proposal from the law, respectively. the situation around the holiday and the selling time on public holidays can be viewed in two levels. Firstly, it is from the point of view of the employee, the rights of employees, their leave, what concerns them, and the way the union talks about this matter. The second issue, and this is the selection of those days off, is the symbolism of values that the country recognises and are important to Czech statehood, Czech society. Both planes are the reason to keep the closing time at the time of the declared public holidays. I therefore propose to reject the bill. Allow me, however, to comment a little more on this proposal. You know, I was one of the co-chairs of this bill when Senator František Bublan presented it five years ago. I confess that at the beginning, before I signed my signature for this bill, at the time, I also asked myself whether, even if we wanted to meet our employees, we would hurt them by getting rid of the possibility of making a little extra money. I asked in the shops back then because I'm a woman, so of course I go shopping. And the people I asked told me two things. First of all, the sums they receive if they get paid for their holiday work are not so significant as to outweigh the value it has for them that at least the seven days of the year on listed public holidays can be at home with families. Then I signed the proposal. Now that this proposal has been mentioned again and the possibility to cancel these days off for business workers, I didn't have to ask any more questions, I was approached by salesmen and salesmen myself. They said, for God's sake, it's one of the few, it's really seven days a year when we know we can be home, when we can be with our families or just enjoy that day, or we're going on a Friday holiday, just constantly, and we don't know when we can have it off. That is why, at this point, I have made a motion to dismiss. There will be no comparison with hospitals, transport or other professions, because even in that hospital there is limited traffic on these holidays as well as in all other fields of human activity. But the hospital has to go, the disease doesn't choose time, place, or man. But for God's sakes, we can go shopping another time. So even the reason that entrepreneurs lose some of their income won't stand up. On the contrary. As a woman, I have the experience of knowing that if I can't go shopping, I'll buy more in advance so that the family doesn't suffer. And I don't think I'm alone in this. A complaint has already been raised from the petitioner that there is no idea how the seven-day selection was made, after which the shops over 200 square meters are closed at the moment. It was a very simple thought. It was a minimal selection of those days when this could be done. They were both days associated with Czech statehood, first of all, and second of all, which are recognized holidays, which, let's say, all of us are blessed with, that's Christmas and Easter. Nothing more, nothing less. Nothing significant happened during the year of this law's operation. Everyone and the shopkeepers survived, the shopkeepers enjoyed the days off. Others may have wondered how to spend their free time other than going to the store. [[17,00 hours]] Also, the debate doesn't hold that the shops have to be fired because the seven days are closed. On the contrary, the employees in the shops are missing. Nor will it stand up to the argument that there is a violation of some freedom. Colleagues and colleagues, I think it is true that one's freedom ends where the other's freedom begins. And by freedom, I mean freedom of employees. And in conclusion, perhaps one more comment. You know, I'm quite puzzled that those seven days a year, important for the Czech statehood, are not willing to perceive those who mostly have full mouths of patriotism and national identity. I reiterate my proposal to reject this bill and maintain the situation as it is at the moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u7	Good afternoon, honourable Members. Thank you, Mrs Gajdůšková. We will continue, but we have three factual points - first Mrs Vrecionová, Mr Brázdil and Mrs Válková. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u8	Thank you. Well, once again, have a good afternoon. I have to respond here through the President to my colleague Gajdůšková. We attended the debate two years ago in the Senate, where she also argued that she was walking and talking to the shopkeepers. I have repeatedly argued that I, too, am a woman, go shopping. I also took the liberty of speaking to the vendors in unnamed chains before we discussed it here. They actually say, for them it used to be very beneficial, because at that time they were taking the service of those without a family, there are also a number of foreigners, students, temps working there. Plus, when I wanted to go shopping between the holidays because I didn't really know because I'm confusing those days myself, there are a lot of people wandering around who don't know whether it's closed or closed today, we found out that, anyway, businessmen are using the time in those chains to clean up, do inventory and remodel the shelves, and then we're wandering the next day before we find out where what it is, how it's rebuilt, and where we can find milk. So I would really like you to support this bill and release it to the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u9	Thank you for keeping time. We will continue with Mr Brázdil's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, all the opinions you have here will hold. They all stand up. The employee's point of view, the employer's, but it also holds up who's older, younger, who wants more money, who wants less money, and who's alone and single, so he doesn't cook and he needs... and so on. Even the angles are so many that everything you're talking about here is going to be right. But in my opinion, the only thing that I don't think you're right about people wanting to change all the time. Well, they don't. They just want to have some sort of run-of-the-mill order, and not to change every term here. In addition to Mrs Gajdůšková, through Mr President. You know, 27 years in medical rescue - I don't care if I'm on Saturday, Sunday, or whatever. I've gotten used to it that there isn't really a week. I just go to work every day when I need to. And these arguments that sometimes even the hospital, I don't know, but the ambulances are on some level that's slowed down or acting differently. Not at all. We go there on holidays, Sundays. And someone's happy, someone's not. Well, let's not change that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u11	I thank Mr Brázdil. Now, Mrs Helena Válková. President Petr Fiala will also prepare for a factual remark. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to speak quickly now to be able to say everything I want in a factual remark. Because I've been through a period here that many of you, fortunately, have missed, those furious wild discussions about every day and the reasons why either cancel or introduce the holidays. I'm clearly against abolishing the law. I am clearly opposed to this proposal precisely because there should be some legal certainty and stability here. And it starts with anti-smoking law, it ends with an EET. We tend to change everything under the flag or with reason that the situation is unbearable. We have done neither social nor economic nor economic nor political evaluations. We do not have really so-called hard data, statistics. And we rely on the fact that a Member of your service, Mr Vice-President, Mrs Vrecionová, will say that she has spoken to those and those salesmen, and they would prefer to return the situation before the Act of 2016. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková apparently spoke to the same salesmen and salesmen as me, because they are very happy. I'm not saying I made the right choice. So I don't want to exceed the set time. For the sake of legal stability, let us really consider whether there is such an urgent interest, first of all, and second of all, whether it will really be for the benefit of our fellow citizens, those who need it most. And in my opinion, they're employees. And the paradigm of health services that provide continuous service when it comes to life and health is completely different. We can't choose it there. If you want to work there, you have to consider that this is a specific mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u13	Your time is up, Madame. Thank you. Now Mr Petr Fiala, also with a factual remark, then Mr Martin Kupka, with a factual remark and with a priority right, Mr Okamura. Mr President, you have a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u14	Mr. Brázdil here said he'd stand up to all the arguments. But they can't stand all the arguments. And some of the arguments put forward by Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, for example, do not stand. I'm not going to throw them away. It can be disproved. And we have the facts and we have the information and we know why this legal provision is wrong. But I will touch on one thing, Mrs President, which you mentioned at the end, and that is the question of patriotism and the fact that those who propose the abolition of this law do not appreciate the public holidays. That's not true at all. We appreciate the public holidays. We just don't want to tell people how to spend the public holidays and what to do. And in that law, it was directly mentioned in the explanatory report that people would have free time and not get dirty by going shopping and something like that. But that's absurd. We're not supposed to raise people that way. And let's leave it to them how they spend it, whether it's good for them to spend a public holiday by finally having a family together and going shopping, or going to a museum, or going to a water park, or going on a trip. And by the way, when they go to the museum, there must also be some employees who just open it up and let people go. There must be a driver or a driver who drives them somewhere. And a lot of other things... When they go to the water park, someone has to take care of him too. And you're not protecting these employees? Well, you're not, because it would be absurd to protect them. So our argument is clear and clear. Let people decide how they want to spend their free time. Let the merchants decide whether they want to be open or not open. And let's leave the employees to work in a profession that also requires work on Saturdays, on Sundays sometimes, or work in a profession that doesn't require such a thing. I mean, it's logical and understandable. That's why our bill is right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u15	I also thank you for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Martin Kupka's point of view now. Mr Roman Onderka will also prepare for a factual remark. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u16	Thank you for the floor. I have very brief two factual points. The first concerns that it would be very cheap and simple, if it could simply be possible for culture, for Czech statehood, for us to spend better state and Christian holidays, to do more just by closing something, just forbid something. But it's actually a lot harder, of course. And if we really wanted to, and I don't know if we're supposed to do something like this, it requires a lot more activity at different levels. But bans in these activities will really be a lot less. [[17.10 hours]] The second point concerns how to ensure stability of the Czech legal environment. In my view, it is difficult for us to insist on a law based on irregularities, on unclear conditions, on unequal conditions and on something that is so much easier to abolish in this case, and the conditions on which people will definitely, because they are simpler, get used to much better and much easier. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Roman Onderka and Vice-President Okamura will also have a factual comment afterwards. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the reaction through you to President Fiala. I'm hearing a lot of opinions about how we're making a decision about how we're ordering these people. I don't always like it, but it's a matter of opinion and practice. And here I must say, colleague through Mr President, that I have the practice. When I worked on the railroad for many years, I couldn't choose whether I could work on a holiday or not work on a holiday. Turnus was a saint. And as well as railway workers, as well as all organizations that can't even strike in the Czech Republic, because it would endanger the functioning of the state, whether it's the police, the army and others, so of course it's not about ordering or not. My colleague Gajdůškovášková meant that we give all citizens in the Czech Republic who do not have this obligation a chance to celebrate the holiday. And we're not ordering them, we're giving them this chance. And all citizens who do not have a duty in relation to laws, legislation and the Czech Republic are entitled to this chance. And that's important to us. And how they celebrate it, whether they go to the woods, to the park or to institutions that are currently possible, which means they're functional, that's all that matters now. But believe me, I'd rather spend a hundred times my time with my family, my friends, anywhere but where I worked at work. Not because I didn't like work, but because I think there are more important things, and this is one of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Okamura, Vice-President, has now made a point of fact. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just say briefly the position of our SPD movement. We are in favour of repealing this sales time law. I know this law from when I was a senator five years ago, there Mr. Bublan from the ČSSD tried to enforce it and the whole The Senate rejected him even though she had most of the ČSSD in the Senate back then! Attention, I'd like to point that out, which surprised me. It was my first speech on a microphone in the Senate, where I expressed myself, and the reasons are pretty simple. My former Senate district, it was said to be a circuit with the second lowest average salaries in the Republic - it was Slovácko, Bojkovice, Uherský Brod etc., and when I did a survey among my constituents, and, as you know, I won the elections, so it was a total of tens of thousands, so they told me: We have no big hypermarket nearby, so in order to buy cheaply, we have to go to Zlín, for example 20 kilometers, so we can only have a free day. Only on a day off, on a holiday we can go shopping cheap. And now take that there's an average salary of 15,000 gross. And second of all, they told me they like to make extra money. I was told in my senate district that people like to make extra money because they have low average salaries of about 15,000 gross, even a family dad. It's a desperate salary, of course it's crazy. We have to do the best we can, and in the SPD, we want to do the best we can to make people pay better, but I've had these reactions. And, of course, when it comes to the fact that this law selectively chooses a particular profession, and we have to ask, what about dispatchers, what about doctors, what about nurses, what about road maintenance workers and others? So in what way do we favor a profession and not one? Even the law doesn't really answer this question at all, notabene we know that it goes around in different ways, because within some centers it has something over 200 meters, something is below 200 meters, but everyone pays rents at the same time. This means that the law is half-baked, underdeveloped, and we have freedom in the name - Freedom and Direct Democracy - and we would like to leave the citizens' free decision whether they want to make money or not. They've got extras to pay for it. Here we need to be consistent in this and also whether they want to do business and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u21	Prime Minister, you're out of time, too. Thank you, then. And we have one more factual remark from Mrs Gajdůšková, and then perhaps Mr Bauer will be next. You have the floor, Madame, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u22	Yes, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just very quickly what we are talking about here. We are talking about seven days: 1 January, Easter Monday, 8 May, 28 September, 28 October, 24 December - and this is only half a day, 25 December and 26 December. It's seven days a year! Nothing more, nothing less. And as far as the relation to Czech statehood is concerned, it is a symbol of how the state treats these days, these holidays, to important days for Czech statehood.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u23	Thank you for your time on the point of fact and we will return to the debate with Mr Jan Bauer's speech, Mr Jiří Mihola will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be honest. I am one of those who did not anger the restrictions on selling time on several festive days of the year. Perhaps this is due to the fact that I live near the border with neighboring Bavaria, where holiday shops close very regularly. Perhaps this is partly due to the fact that in my immediate vicinity I have several employees of larger shops who have acknowledged the change. In contrast to the past, they can now rely on their day off at work, and they are said to be happy for it. Nevertheless, I support our proposal to abolish the ban on sales on selected holidays and I would like to explain why. First, I have met you over time, and I am talking about the employees who are bothered by the change made by the last House. These are mostly young people who took the holiday work as an opportunity to make a profit that they now lost. I have also met several private individuals, not the representatives of the chains, on which the measures fell and caused them problems and reduced sales. Here it is worth recalling that in a group of shops, which must close doors on specified days, are not only shops over 200 square meters, but also collections, pawnshops or bazaars, i.e. the shops of those private people that you do not normally meet in small towns. And that brings me to the second reason why I don't like the law restricting sales. Like many other preconceived regulations, the ban on sales only affects some, and others do not, without being clear on what criteria the line between those who have to and those who do not have to leads. Like other regulations, this is unfair and completely illogical. The third thing I want to mention is this random selection. I ask: are we really sure that the law has stopped at large shops and will not continue bans for other entities, whether defined by the sales area or the type of business? What and who and what holidays will be next? Is it gonna be water parks or a multi-kine? Ladies and gentlemen, these are the reasons that are important, but they are not the reason for this. The main and unstoppable reason for me is respect for freedom - freedom of business and freedom of customers to use the services offered at any time. The restriction of selling time for me is primarily a violation of the basic principles and relationships on which a free society is supposed to operate and to which the state has no say. If we retreat once, we can retreat forever until we have nothing left of this freedom. Here, I'll take a short gag. Despite all the words on the protection of employees, I cannot shake the impression that under a passionate discussion accompanying the approval of this regulation, there was also an unspoken attempt by its authors to mortify the current commercial society. That's all I have. Even I don't like the behavior of parents who wander around the mall with children instead of taking them on a trip to nature, but that's what freedom is all about. And to respect it means to respect it without reservation and not impose your view of the world on others. [[17.20 hours]] With regard to the employees themselves, the limitation of selling time cannot be seen as a measure in their better position in employment relations. If we want to improve the working conditions of people employed, for example, in large chains, talk about them in connection with the labour code, or look for opportunities to improve existing control mechanisms so that reasonable demands are placed on employers, while respecting their responsibilities at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I would like to paraphrase the words of those who have opposed the law on restrictions on selling time, and that this is a measure that will not help anyone and harm everyone. After all, I would like to ease that statement slightly. Please, let us not do at all costs the good that some want, but we hurt others fundamentally at the same time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u25	I thank Mr Jan Bauer for his speech. And now, Mr Jiří Mihola, Mrs Květa Matušovská will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u26	Thank you. Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. As far as this proposal is concerned, I can say that the KDU-ČSL MEP does not agree with this proposal by the ODS and will vote against it, or I assume that we will support the rejection that was announced by my colleague Gajdušková. I'm not gonna forgive myself for one comment right from the start. I am amazed at the priorities of the ODS. I wanted to tell Petr Fial directly, whom I otherwise appreciate, we've known each other for years. But, you know, if the ODS were the first to pass really hot health laws here, when you're healthy, you don't deal with it. But, you know, there are a lot of cities where you can wander an ambulance without knowing if you're coming to your hospital or if you're going to take up third. And these pretty serious things, and they're not on the waiting list like they're nowhere to be seen, but what I really think doesn't have any major impact than cultivating, so we're dealing with this here as an absolute priority. Well, I guess something's gonna be wrong. We have also heard criticism of some of the explanatory notes not only from the ODS but also from others. And now, in the explanatory report, we don't like any analysis, we don't. So also, when we're critical, we should really have these things in our own designs really neat. KDU-ČSL sees the regulation of sales time on state and other holidays as a cultivation measure that is to a different extent common in most Western European countries, but also currently in many other European countries. We can look to our neighbors in Slovakia, where they have tightened it up a lot, and also to the neighbouring Poland. This regulation often applies to Saturdays and Sundays. There's no word here on Saturdays and Sundays, I point out. None yet. There's no word for it. As regards social engineering remarks. I beg you to be careful here. Everyone loves it when it suits us, we report to Baťa, who has made us so famous throughout the world. Baťa with many approaches would then fall into the criticism of social engineering here. And I don't know how many of us here at least reach for Baťa's ankles, with all due respect. And I also didn't notice that anyone was essentially telling someone what to do. They're so artificial stuffing that somebody's giving advice. So I certainly did not tell anyone what to do about the public holiday. I would like to stress that very much. However, I am as critical as the critics of this bill, or the last parliamentary term approved by the standard. In this I agree with them that there is a certain lack of clarity as to why it only concerns selected holidays. We had the answer here, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, but it bothered me, too, and I criticized it. It really isn't in the explanatory report that the key to the holidays was chosen. She pointed out that when we discussed this on the show by Mrs Jílková and Mrs. ODS colleague Uženija. And I want to go across the line by coming up with an amendment to this law. It is a very simple arrangement so that the restriction of the selling time here concerns not selected public holidays, but all public holidays. The difference is very small, because if it involves eight or fourteen, admit that it really doesn't come out of anything special. It'll just get a better look. After all, there's a criticism across these clubs that somebody doesn't know that one holiday is open, another is closed again. So far, all KDU-ČSL colleagues have signed this, but we want it to have support across the clubs, so I'm going to send it to the presidents of the MPs, and I firmly believe that, on the one hand, colleagues who have promoted the standard with us during the last parliamentary term will support the Senate. To close the chaos with the selected holidays. And I believe that the others, who also actually had it as a fundamental argument, the incomprehensibleness of why one holiday would be yes and another would not. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there are days when the economy may not come first. If state and other holidays introduce legislative power, it is quite logical that it can enter them with some regulation. Moreover, we live in a time when we really live in different situations, sometimes very dramatic, calling on our roots, cultures, identities, history, personalities. And just public holidays are those days that should be recognized, it should be normal that they are something special and different from everyday. But of course, as folks, we care very much about the fact that hypermarket and supermarket salespeople, in many cases mothers of children, mothers of families, could spend their holiday moments together with their family. We want to contribute to better combining the working and family life of employees. I had a series of polls in my hand on this subject, and in all cases, I have those polls in the file on my desk, in case anyone's interested. And they weren't dozens of people, but thousands of respondents. So the result was that citizens don't mind. Not by five votes, but it just doesn't really bother people and they see them as normal, because they see them driving around Europe, and it's been working there for years, and nobody's bothered. Moreover, it was sometimes criticized as sales cut and so forth. I don't know if you've noticed, but last year's sales, when this measure already worked, were higher, just increased. And, of course, in some cases, they have also moved elsewhere in the case of closing down those hypermarkets, which is undoubtedly just good for the economy. And I'm sure people are able to preload on some holiday day too, which is not a problem. As far as sage is concerned, we often call upon Great Britain, Germany, Austria. It's a good thing we're calling because they're still way ahead of us. That's where the area control is, too. Let anyone who has a major problem suggest a different area to the standard, and let them explain why it should be otherwise. But I've watched it happen in other countries, and it's very, very similar. So it's not something abnormal. Moreover, it is interesting that critics do not mind again in another law on food and tobacco products, where expired foods are here those hypermarkets, supermarkets with a surface area of over 400 square meters - again it is explicitly there - obliged to give to nonprofits, which then redistribute it to the socially needy. And that's okay with us. So, somewhere, regulation is a problem, and somewhere, it doesn't matter. Or do we just not notice? [[17.30 hours]] And as for discrimination, for example, when someone comes up with this. Please, when it works in countries just like the United Kingdom, Germany, are these countries less marketable than our country? I really don't think so. Or perhaps more socialist? I don't think so either. So, please, let's not be more papal than the Pope. As regards the regulation of the selling time on holidays, whether state or others, which is common in most countries of Europe, I do not see the only reason why the Czech Republic should be an exception. Completely to the end. There's been a talk about it... and I'm glad the YES movement is looking at it so we can evaluate things and not accept laws and then disturb them. That's a good look, a good moment. But we can save a little work here. Please, let's look at the neighbors where it's been working for decades. If this were a non-functional measure, it would undoubtedly have been abolished in Germany, which is at the economic top of Europe. It's not like that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u27	děkovat you, Mr Jiří Mihol. Mrs Květa Matušovská will now appear and prepare Mr Marian... I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. Mr. President of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, co-worker, but I've really been applying for a long time. The key argument we are proposing to abolish this law is freedom. Freedom in everyone's decision-making. For those who weren't here in the last Chamber of Deputies, I asked the instigator and translator of Senator Bublan why there are 200 square meters there. Why isn't there 250 or 180? And his answer, and you find it in the tapestry, is: because it's in France. That's an argument. Because it's like that in France. There is a clear inequality between those who have 199 and 201 square meters. One can sell, one can't sell. And there's no explanation for that. I don't want to convince those who supported the law. I found numbers and the law supported social democracy, KDU-ČSL and the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. They had a majority at the time when they voted on it, and we voted on it twice. Most of it wasn't dramatic. The first vote was '83 and they got 90 votes. And to tell you the truth, the first attempt from the House was a total mess. There was such confusion from the rapporteur and the vote that we had only legalized three public holidays when it had to be closed, and these are the ones in which it was closed without law. It was such an unwanted spell. Then the law returned to the Senate. There he got back to the same way we voted on him for the first time, and again the three political parties voted for him. We just have different opinions, and I don't want to convince them. What struck me today was the representation of the representatives of the ANO movement. Because in the last parliamentary term, we had the same opinion as the Civil Democrats. It was voted twice. For the first time - for the pasquil, when it was only the three holidays - there were two ANO Members for, among other things, Mrs Válková, and 36 opposed. And when it came back from the Senate and it was already there for seven or eight holidays, there was no one in the ANO movement, and there were 32 present, including Mrs Válková, who voted against. And I need to explain that opinional high. Maybe we could use the winged one we know from the castle, "just a moron doesn't change his mind," but that's not enough. Mrs Válková, who was against once and once before, said today that she is in principle in favour. Just don't change it. And as I recall in the election debate, almost all the candidates from all the political parties said: our legislation is too complicated. No one's even getting a sense of it. We accept one law after another. One novel after another. And President Mihola is wrong that it is such a complete priority - that is the next point. We didn't build the program to put it behind us either. However, in the first package of laws that we proposed, we proposed, yes, abolishing a few according to us unnecessary laws. And that's an example of one of them. And it's not just the confusion that holidays do or don't, because there's the salami method we talked about in the last term, and it's all the holidays. But I'm saying I don't want to convince you. I respect your opinion, even if I disagree with it. So let's go back to the 200 square meters. What is the argument that this is true in France? France is a larger country, so if by population, it should be about 50 square meters with us, right? to be adequate. But I don't want to downplay it. The words about how people would spend better public holidays were here. Maybe not from Mr Mihola's mouth, I'm not sure, but I have no reason not to believe him. But others, especially from these left-wing benches, used it very often. And we say - and many of us go to the official celebrations of those public holidays: Let us leave the freedom of choice, both for those entrepreneurs and for those citizens. And to say that if I don't have a two-day deal, it doesn't matter if I don't have an eight-day deal? Well, it's not that easy in business when your sales fall out. And they are not all, as Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, who will put on a big basket on Friday because she knows that it will be closed for two days, and thus will make the sales bigger than if she had gone twice. But nothing against personal shopping habits. I really, really don't want to. So there is also a question for my colleague Kubíček, who voted with us twice against the bill and today says mainly not to change it. So I don't think if I'm fighting some bill, even if I don't succeed, by once being approved, it doesn't mean that it's gonna stay in that legislation. That means, otherwise our legal system will become more and more massive, because no doubt whatever government is going to be, it will start coming up with one good bill after another. At least we're suggesting that the laws be abolished to reduce it. Well, I suggest you let it go to second reading. By the way, I've been hearing this a lot about the program proximity of the YES and ODS movement. Well, somehow it doesn't work for us, virtually. You. The first bill was submitted by Mr Blažek. ANO club has proposed rejection or a member has voted in favour. He just canceled real estate taxes. It's a program match again. We're in, you're in. Third point, third possibility of programming conformity. We're in, you're in. If it's at the next point I'm not even asking, I'll take the liberty of guessing how it's going to be with EET. So what kind of program agreement are we talking about here? Either we're gonna be serious and we're gonna be really looking for some sort of program agreement, or we're gonna be saying it over the microphone like this: well, we actually want what you want. Well, it's not true. So try to let go of one law. If it wasn't for rejection, let's make it a zero-to-four score at least one-to-three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u29	Thank you, Chairman of the club. And before I give the floor to Mrs Matušovská, I shall make an apology to the President of the House, Mrs Lenka Dražilová from 23 to 26 on account of illness and also on 23 March. 1. between 17.45 and 19 for work reasons apologizes Dominik Feri. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on the draft law of Parliament as one of the rapporteurs to the Senate Bill on Sales Time from the last parliamentary term. I remember very well what kind of peripety followed us through his whole negotiation. As rapporteur, I've been in charge of him for two and a half years. He was in the Chamber of Deputies for so long before he approved. Much has been said here, as has already been said by the translator and many before us, the decline in sales of traders. In common sense, we can say that the customer has only one wallet and only one amount of money. So either he spends it that day, sooner, later. Another thing that was said was that the employees lost the extras for the holidays and working quiet days. At the time when I was in charge of the law, I also dealt with this with the inspection of work, and it confirmed to me that in most business chains people work mostly in multi-shift traffic, and therefore they are not entitled to extras on holidays. I will also draw attention to the workers' free decisions whether they will go to work or not. Unfortunately, no one's asking them. There's no way to talk about unions with all employers, because some people don't even allow them to be established. [[17.40 hours]] I believe that this law fulfils its primary function, which is the reconciliation of family and working life. In my opinion, we should teach our children that the holiday is a significant day and that we should remember and honor the memory and not corsage with them around the malls. As one of the previous speakers has already said, the only disadvantage of this law is that it does not apply to all holidays, and therefore, as a club, of course, we would not have a problem with the extension of the sales time law to all holidays. I also join the motion for rejection, which was made here by Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u31	Thank you, Mrs Matušovská. Mr Marian Jurečka will now appear and prepare Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u32	Good late afternoon, Mr President, dear colleagues, colleagues, Prime Minister, honourable government. Allow me to express myself, too. A lot has been said here, but I kind of feel like we're missing the point in this debate a little bit. We're not talking about it, and nobody here wants to line up what customers do, we regular consumers, on public holidays. After all, the purpose of this regulation - and I do not like it when the state over-enters the freedom of business, the personal freedoms of each of us - is to give this law a chance for those who work there to devote themselves to their families and loved ones. And I think that if the state can narrow down the list of agendas that run seven days a week, then I think that it should contribute to some extent, because if the principle that colleagues from the ODS have been talking about and I understand them in principle, I don't take their opinion, then I would have to ask why we limit many modes, for example, for example, for road transport, for trucks, for shipping, for weekends, for holidays, for public holidays. If I was the owner of a car transport, I wonder why when a car carrier in Austria or Germany can drive that day, why I can't drive in the Czech Republic. In some moments, the state enters the freedom of business through its regulation and personal freedom. But on the other hand, I think that if we look at the countries that have already been said here - Germany since 1919, I think that there is much respect for freedom of business, Great Britain, Belgium, Austria, these are states that have far more significant limitations. And we're only discussing state holidays here. Nobody talks about Sundays. I think we should give those people who don't have that personal freedom on the state holidays, they have no choice - here I heard in the discussions, let them go do something else. Please, let us come down from the heights of the Chamber of Deputies to ask those people who have worked in Tesco for ten or fifteen years if they still have a chance to do something else today in such a job market in many localities of the Czech Republic. When I talk to these people, they tell you that they often have no other choice. And if I'm looking at it through the optics of the weakest link in society, then I'm going to have the freedom to buy the day before or the day after the state holiday, and I have the freedom, but I have to ask if the person who has to be there for me - and it's not a hospital, it's not necessary to transport - if that person has to be there necessarily because of me. And if he doesn't have to, I'd like him to be home, too. And if he goes to nature or the museum, I don't really care anymore, that's his personal freedom. But give him the chance that he doesn't have to, unless it's strictly necessary for this company and for this state so he doesn't have to be there, that's what it's all about. Once to see the optics, whether I evaluate the economy, the economic indicators in the first place, or whether I also evaluate other values that can't be calculated completely economically into the koruna, and that's so that people can be with their loved ones. When I spoke, and I had a poll on Facebook, so many women wrote to me, especially the singles women, that they really are grateful for what has come into existence since mid-2016. And with this optic, let's try to look at it. Thank you for your attention and understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u33	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. My colleague Adamec will wait, a point of fact - of course the party discipline worked. Mr Vice-President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u34	Thank you. A very short factual point. The argument by foreign examples, Germany, Austria and other countries where such regulation exists, the argument is not entirely accurate because we would have to look at how the regulation developed there. We started to regulate sales here on public holidays and we tend to tighten up, while in all these countries the tendency is reversed. The tradition was strict, the regulation of selling time - in Germany twenty-thirty years ago it was not allowed to sell after a certain hour of the evening, on Saturday it was limited, then they allowed it to be within ten hours on Thursday, it covered even smaller stores, and gradually the tendency in these countries is liberalisation. And that is a pan-European tendency. While we're going the other way, or we went the other way two years ago. Now we're suggesting that we go back to what's normal and which is consistent with the trend in the countries you mentioned here. Of course, where there was a strong church or strong churches and where there were strong trade unions, there were relatively strong regulations in the 1940s, 1950s, and subsequently in connection with these two actors on the political scene. But in recent decades, precisely because it didn't work out, the tendency is completely opposite. So if we're arguing with these countries, let's see what the trend is and what's going on there. And then the examples don't add up. We're going against the trend of liberalization and making people decide what they want to do, how they want to do it and when they want to go shopping, when they want to sell, and we tighten it up. And that is why we are proposing that we return to a normal situation and what we adopted here two years ago recklessly in order to correct and abolish this regulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u35	Thank you, Mr Fial, for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr. Ivan Adamec is the last member so far. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u36	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, nice almost evening. I would also like to speak on this subject here. I have had the honour of attending this law, which we want to cancel today, in the last parliamentary term in the House. I'd like to share some of the knowledge of how it actually took place. There were union representatives sitting at the gallery, I don't know if they were employees of Tesco or any other mall or not at all, who applauded here if there were positive contributions to the introduction of this proposal. If not, then of course they behaved completely differently. But that's not what I wanted to say. I think the unions should have their place in the individual stores, let's say chains, but they failed because they chose the easy way. They went to the Chamber of Deputies through related political parties or political parties that agree with this view, and they enforced it in the form of a law, which I am not quite sure was the right thing to do. We're talking about whether we're gonna make these employees feel better about the public holidays, whether we're gonna make some part of the company that's obviously minority, we're gonna have to celebrate the public holidays in some appropriate way -- I don't know what it is because my experience is that when you have a more festive meeting somewhere, the meetings are still going around, and it's got to be moving on a day-to-day basis, because if it's a day off, no one's gonna come. I know that most of the big stuff bothers us, that Tesca, Albert, and I don't know what it's all called, Hypernův. But the problem is elsewhere. I'm not their supporter either, but if you look at who's in that junk on a weekday or on those holidays where it's allowed so far, they're full of people. People decided to go there whether we wanted to or not. I've seen several attacks here in the last parliamentary term on those chains. Some may be justified, some I think are just emotional. But people decided they'd just go there. They decided with their feet, as they say. And I don't think any law can stop them as a result. And I'll tell you what the consequences of this decision are in the second term. We have decided that stores - now no matter what, just over 200 metres - will be closed on listed holidays. Well, now that I've seen it after the holidays and before the holidays, I'll tell you what happened. On the 23rd, our Czech traders of Vietnamese origin drove to the markets, bought the market completely, and since they were not subject to a ban, they sold these goods in their stores, of course, with an added price. And then what happened when the first day opened? Were you at the market when it opened on the first day of the state holiday? That was about surviving. So people have dealt with it. The only person who can't handle it is their own market and, of course, employees who are at home not taking wages. [[17.50 hours]] When we're talking about regulation in Europe, and the President said it right, I brought this material, and at first I thought I'd read it to you here, but when I looked at the time, I said I wouldn't be so strict with you, because the material is quite extensive and it says how it works in different European countries. It is not true that there is an absolute ban on holidays everywhere. It's not like that. I know it comes in handy. Whoever is the supporter of this proposal will, of course, tell us Germany, Britain, Austria or Slovakia, who is not, will say completely different countries. I think liberalization is just coming. If this is to be regulated, I think it's a union task, it's a task of organising work in these markets. And in my opinion, if we interfere more and more with this, the market will be so distorted that it will surprise us very unpleasantly at the end. If you're here defending the employees of the big market, why don't you defend the employees of the little crap? That's my question. Is this some other part of our company? Are those other employees? They're not. They're the same, if not worse than the employees in the markets we love so much. It just is. That's reality. And no one's defending them here. They can go to work all the time. So let's take care of everyone or no one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u37	I thank Mr Adamc. In fact, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. I'll ask the House for peace. I've been meaning to interrupt my colleague Adamec for a while so that he doesn't have to have such a strong voice, but I hope you'll be calm now. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u38	Thank you for the floor. I just want to conclude the heated debate to support this law. I would like to support colleagues from ODS, because we as TOP 09 have already voted against in the last parliamentary term. I think there's been enough arguments here. Now the final question is absolutely accurate. We might as well ask ourselves why, for example, we don't fight like this for closing pubs on holidays. Also waitresses, bartenders, chefs, would certainly also like to spend time with the family, and we could also argue that this is an unnecessary matter, that it is not like our doctors, firefighters and nurses, which we really need twenty-four seven can be said. So in this respect, I'm sure there's a whole series of arguments that I think are reasonable. It is unnecessary to support further regulation. I think that every time the door opens, there will be those who would like to introduce even more holidays for more and more, and in a few moments we will be dealing with a draft that will deal with closing shops on Sundays etc. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Those are the things I think it's useless to record, and it's -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u39	Madame, I'm gonna interrupt you anyway, then I'm gonna give you some time. You can relax for a while! And who is discussing something else, go into the foyer! Ladies and gentlemen, this is really awful! Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u40	Thank you. I think there's been enough talk here, and I was just about to quit anyway. But thank you for negotiating the peace. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us consider this rationally and let us focus on more important matters and not make sense of regulation here. Therefore, let us support this law until further reading, because I think that, as has been said here many times, we separate some citizens here, we make them into a different sort of people, and on the contrary, we forget others. Better regulation is usually no regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u41	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Now, Mr Jiří Bláha, also on the point of fact. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u42	I would just like to clarify the things that have been said last time here, and I would like to say that I can really comment on this. I have been in the field that we are dealing with for exactly 28 years and I employ 200 people and currently supply about 300 customers. The situation on the holiday day, if it is, is the following. People sleep in the morning. The only day they really go shopping from morning is in November before Christmas, because they already think of it as pre-Christmas shopping. Other holidays are taken - we have a holiday, we go to the store, at most when it rains. So most of our customers normally work like "we don't want anything for the holiday." It's just an expression that everyone's sales are rising on holiday. It's the other way around. The holiday is about a third. If you have fun with the business chain, you'll really have fun with them, so you'll find that they have the exact same view, but they're in a vicious circle and they can't escape, so they're in it. Most people who work in this field have that opinion: please leave us at home if possible. That's the expression of the people who work in those services. Because they have this regime so incredibly demanding. Once in the morning, once in the evening, every other Saturday, sometimes five Saturdays, and they don't do it in a row. So that's how it works in the business we're discussing right now, and we have no information about it. It's just that there was a lady talking somewhere. I'm in the business. So just to get the information a little bit from the other side. And the fact that it's pasquil, we've known that the law's been going on here the whole time. That means yes, 200 meters is justified. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u43	Mr rapporteur, if you came forward as rapporteur, I would certainly give you the floor of priority, but it was a factual point, I must follow the Rules of Procedure. One more point in fact, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u44	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I apologise for delaying, but there was a question as to why not small traders, why only the big ones. Simple. Because these small shops are mostly served by their owners, and they decide what they want, whereas with those employees of large shops and chains, they are ordered and done. If we're talking about freedom, we have to see it this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-23-ps2017-006-04-006-009.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. That was the last application for a debate. I'm asking if there's anyone from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. A representative of the petitioners? He's not interested. The rapporteur? He's not interested. We can therefore vote on the proposals that have been made in the debate. Because I haven't been driving all this time, I beg the rapporteur to check up on me. In the debate, there was a motion to reject the proposal and the application for repayment was not filed. No application has been made for a shortening or extension of the deadline. That's right. So we can vote on a motion to dismiss. I'll check you out first and ask you for a new registration. Log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the motion for rejection, which has been made several times in the debate, in voting number 44, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 44 from the present 165 for 102, against 57. The motion was accepted. The motion was denied. That concludes item 9 and we can continue with the next proposal. According to the programme - please calm - according to the approved agenda, item number 11 is before us, which is
