ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u1	24. Members of Václav Klaus, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 101/2017 Coll., amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended /house print 102/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 102/1. I prosit that Mr Václav Klaus present the proposal for the appellants. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Let me return the subject of purely professional, educational and important after excited staff debates. I'll just say it's more important than kindergarten. Even if she is not so catchy, because at kindergarten, everyone in your constituency has a number of teachers who came to you angry, and that's how it got in the order of importance for you quite high.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so we can discuss this proposal! Please, Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u4	School law is introduced by a lot of bureaucracy, nonsense, ideological projects, not just inclusion. By the way, I'm gonna read in the interview tomorrow, or I'm gonna ask the minister to change the inclusive decree. And let's be clear, there are things that can be fixed quickly, a treat order and all that nonsense when an enlightened minister orders. But there are things that can last 15 years or more. If we cancel practical schools, it can take years. Something similar is when we revolutionarily change the way we finance, i.e. the way taxpayers' money goes to schools. [[15.50 hours]] The reform of funding has been pushed through political force in the last parliamentary term. It is already showing today, as some of us have said, but we have been shouted out that it will bring about a financial upheaval, that it will bring huge problems, that there are not calculated costs, that it raises a lot of questions. I think the Minister will confirm these words in the next debate. It's gonna bring the cost hyperinflation. I am very surprised that my novel is not presented by the Minister of Finance. Now what's going on? We're raising more and more money, last year 160 billion. CZK you, taxpayers, i.e. 70,000 per family, or more. It's growing fast. It almost evokes the question of how we could have endured it ten years ago. But now it's about how to get this relatively small amount of money into schools. Regional education therefore covers about 120 billion. There are two basic ways to do that. One who, in some way, tries to reflect the needs of schools, let's call it a cost system or a normative system. The cost system worked fairly successfully, for example, under communism, because it requires a very strong central authority. It requires authority to decide: there will be no school, there will be no school, there will be no school, there will be 36 children in the classroom, the teacher teaches 22 hours etc. etc. If the school isn't in the housing estate somewhere, they'll stand up. When schools live somewhere again, the pen is cut off and no one will say a word, a strong central authority will do it. This is how Czech education really worked before November 1989. And let's say without ideology, the system was relatively stable, the central authority worked. At present, the centre does not have such strength even by mistake towards the regions, towards the municipalities, or it is completely illusory for the system to behave in this way. And we have a second basic principle that says we have 120 billion, we have about a million and a half children, if we divide it, 80,000 goes out, we save on children with disabilities, so we send 60,000 to the school that they visit. That's the system - in short - normative. The important thing is that anything between these two systems is a cat dog that can never work out of the nature of things. The amendment that was adopted in the last parliamentary term is, of course, a big step towards the cost financing. It's the same for everyone according to his needs, each according to his abilities, but without that central authority. So the voices are already echoing today if it takes an extra 13 billion or 30 billion, the incredible numbers that this amendment can bring. Ideas like class payment, hour payment, PHmax - the whole thing is so complicated that a few people in the Republic understand what it is. What happens and why does it collapse? As long as we financed a plus or minus with regard to how many pupils the school had, the whole school had money and empty schools had relatively little money. They've been doing different things for them. They've been bailing them out. Now that the criterion is the number of lessons and expenses and things like that, of course, everyone will meet the criteria. The authors of the last amendment promised full schools that they would not lose anything - OK, and half-empty schools would get the same thing. This brings just twenty-thirty billion crowns that are not in the system. The system doesn't have it, or the whole school's gonna go down. The Association of Directors of Gymnasiums, which protests against this amendment, is already storming very furiously. Reality will be chaos. We will see very quickly what we experienced in health - a nightly government meeting, etc., where money is missing in the system, and it will be hard to save and fill the system so that the system doesn't collapse. I can already see the situation where the North Moravian MPs meet here across the political spectrum, that the situation is the worst, and we will vote furiously here, where to send where to first. So my challenge or my amendment only says this: let's put this dangerous experiment aside by ten years, let's have a real professional debate, a political debate, let's make it clear which way we want to go, and let's not let this dangerous experiment into schools. It is no secret that the government, regardless of my initiative, tried to postpone the initiation of this measure, or the Minister of Education. It has been stopped from some of the highest political circles, but time for a serious and professional political debate is really needed. This really isn't funny. And if you try to stop it today, the blame won't be on the people who submitted it and pushed it through the last parliamentary term, it'll be your ministers, your finance secretary, who will live with it and what kind of problems the schools will face. So think of it as a handshake, and a professional one. Let's put it down, let's have a real debate, and when we have a majority agreement, we can change something about education. More certainly in the discussion, because there are many speakers, so I will still respond. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u5	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, there's an application... It's not, okay. President Kováčik does not now report with priority rights and the rapporteur for first reading is Mr Ivo Vondrák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that in the early 1990s our education, especially regional, was not bad at all. And after years, we got into a situation if I used euphemism, that our education was in an unflattering state, and that is why it was necessary in some way to deprive reform, which you may have heard something about here. I would add here that I think the normative financing system is the one that doesn't help quality. It is a way that is simple from the point of view of distribution, but does not reflect the cost part at all, and has even led to a major problem of uneven funding or rewarding teachers in different regions. I think that adopting reform was a necessary step, and I think it is high time we did something about our education in this sense. What is the problem of quality? Of course, at the time when the school receives money according to the number of pupils, there is, of course, a pursuit of the student and basically the fulfilment of the classes that lead to the negative ratio of the number of pupils to the educator, and, of course, schools tend to accept students and pupils who, in essence, will not be able to meet the requirements for such studies. And thirdly, there is a big problem, here I can confirm, as the captain, that there are fields that we cannot open because they are unfulfilled, and then we do not get craftsmen and trade unions that are basically lacking in the labour market. So I think reform is necessary. We were aware of this, and now I will speak for a person who is also chairing the School Commission of the Association of Regions, that there is a need to negotiate a way to implement and implement this reform, because he no doubt needs more money than originally foreseen. We've created a sort of working group that deals with this. She also met with the Minister of Education and we agreed that if there was money for reform, which means about 10-11 billion next year. Moreover, then it is good to start the reform immediately, or I would say desirable immediately. If such funds were not available, then, of course, there would be danger, and there we were talking about one year of possible extension. [[16.00 hours]] Since this promise to increase the budget is here, we have all agreed on this within the Association of Regions, that we will not delay the reform and implement it immediately, because it is the very impact on quality that is quite obvious, I would say explicit. So, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that those ten years of delay, I fear, does not mean delay, but the abolition of reform, and I think our education really cannot afford it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. At this point, I am opening up a general debate in which a number of applications are submitted, but President Gazdík has previously made himself known with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. This law may be more important than you think. Because if it passes, I dare say that this means the destruction of regional education in the Czech Republic. The effort to change the funding of education and to change the philosophy of funding education from funding to student, from funding so-called teaching unit, is very old. It is gradually postponed from 2011 by various ministers and I am very pleased that the law is currently effective and will be valid from 1 January 2019, I hope. If we reject this bill today. I will give you two clear reasons why I think we should reject this bill. For one thing, the reason is philosophical or ideal. Currently, our education produces pieces. The principal doesn't care if the student is educated or raised, if he has competence. The director's interested in having a piece. I know a lot of cases where in high school, pupils with a few enough to go to the high school school school, because the principal needs a piece. This is where we made it! That's why we have few craftsmen today. That's why high school graduates come out of high school with no proper qualifications, but the director got funding and he had a piece. I admit that there is a completely different view of the director of a private grammar school or the director of a large Prague school or city school, and a completely different view is the director of a teaching centre somewhere in the countryside, in a rural area. Then there's a point of view. The student funding system created diametric differences between regions. My Zlín Region is at its worst in the Republic today. The difference between the average salary of the teacher in the Zlín Region and the Liberec Region and the Central Bohemia Region, where they currently have the highest wages, is currently more than CZK 1,500. So in 2016, in 2017, those numbers are going to be even bigger. It's due to local specifics, because even the student funding system can't put money on the pupil alone. The system is given by normative funding, which means that the Ministry will determine the national standard and then, through regional standardizations, the regional authorities will divide them through the third-degree municipalities to individual schools. Even here, it's not the same funding for a pupil. Years shall take into account the specifics of each school of each area. Again, I asked the officials of the Regional Authority of the Zlín Region, the Department of Education, what should the Zlín Region do so that it does not and does not have an average wage last in the Republic. He should cancel a third of the primary art schools! Because, of course, the region in which the most children in the population class go to elementary art schools, and when one teacher teaches one violin student, unfortunately, is significantly more expensive than when he teaches the class about 23 or 30 pupils, then of course the region pays for it. But we in the Zlín Region, and I think that you are happy everywhere else, and you are proud of the fact that children attend elementary art schools. That we're leading them to artistic education. But unfortunately, this does not affect the normative system of funding for a pupil. Small-class schools are a specific problem. Yes, there we can ask the founder, a small community, for funding. And even more specific problems currently include schools special. I asked the county officials, the Department of Education, what should we do to at least get to the Republic average. It would mean in the current uncertainty of how to suspend half of the special schools. I can tell you about the dozens of personal tragedies of parents and children that would happen. This is done by the system of normative financing. Paradoxic is that Zlín education has the second best results in the Republic! Even in this system of funding the pupils are not poor quality and for those items where it can be compared, whether they are entrance exams from Czech and mathematics or general basis, or the results of mathematics, the Zlín education is one of the best in the country in these regions. I can't imagine a system missing from all regions this year thanks to student funding - currently the Regional Association has calculated that 2.1 billion are missing. The CZK that the Minister will receive, and I hope that he will receive from the Ministry of Finance, under the current law of funding for the pupil for whom this proposed law is so planned, it will be very difficult for those regions to make up for regional disparities in some way. Please reject this bill. Let us reject it because otherwise we will abolish regional education, otherwise we will further reduce quality and create pieces, not competent, raised and educated individuals. I'm filing a motion to dismiss this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u9	I thank the honourable Member and now I have two factual points. So I have Mr. Václav Klaus first. So please. And Mr Karel Rais will be prepared for a factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u10	Well, that was a classic demonstration of someone not knowing what they were talking about. The liquidation of regional education did not result in a system of financing. This makes inclusion, bureaucracy, ideological insanity, the fact that money doesn't end with teachers. Normal financing has nothing to do with the University of Education. The principal doesn't care about a piece. Unlike you, I was the director. A director who accepts weak pupils who aren't supposed to be there, they're really the schools where half the students don't graduate ten years in a row. We have dozens of such schools and the Czech school system and inspections do not close them. Those are the problems. To say something I agree with. I'm not defending the system the way it works now. And what I agree with the proponents of the last law is that one of the biggest problems is that the regions take money and bail out their little-filled and failed schools. That's what you correctly pointed out, that the normality is different for a pupil in Chebs, another is in Jablunkovsk, another is elsewhere. So that's what I'm calling for to open up a discussion and to bring justice to it, that a child in Jabrunkov as in Ashi has the same value, and try to fix it. So I'm not following the pasquila that Czech education has been conducted, but what you're preparing, the clock payments and all that nonsense, it's a thousand times worse and it's gonna lead to chaos and financial disruption. That's what I'm talking about. I would correct Mr. Pre-Speaker of the rapporteur. The new system doesn't talk about quality. So we're not fighting here as normative funding, or some quality, because the system that's supposed to run, there's not even a line on quality. This is purely more cost financing according to "school needs'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u11	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Karel Rais. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would follow up on the previous speakers, especially my colleague Gazdík and colleague Vondrák. In essence, regional education funding has been discussed for several years whether to prefer over-the-head funding or over-hours. So I wouldn't like to talk about that. But I looked into the law, the explanatory note, or the bill. I am surprised by the ten years of delay, which, I quote almost, I think it is there that we will use for a serious professional and political debate on this subject. The life of the Member is certainly less than ten years, and I believe that, as Mr Vondrák has pointed out here, it is just that we are actually killing any reforms. So I would have applied more or less to what my colleague Gazdík said, and I am making a procedural motion here to reject the bill at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u13	Thank you. And now, yes, here are some more factual points. So, Mrs Valachová, and Mr Klaus and Mr pojezdný will be prepared for the factual remark. Well, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the contrary, I would just like to confirm the truthfulness of the statements made by colleagues from STAN. Yes, if we do not change the school financing system, unique systems of our education, such as primary art schools or special schools, are at risk. And only a note to special schools, because I can imagine another reaction. The number of children in special schools, although unique, and unique programs and we want to preserve them and we always wanted to keep them and never wanted to disturb them, so in the case of special schools, the number of children has fallen since 2005. We need a different way of financing than accessing children as the pieces they carry in their backpack a package of banknotes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u15	Thank you. Now I'll read the apologies. I have here an apology from Mr Jan Richter from 4:00 p.m. to the end of the day, and here I have an apology from the Minister of Transport, Dan Ťok, from 5:10 p.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. With another factual remark, Mr Václav Klaus. Please. Yes, you have another one. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u16	It's a real point. I would like to respond to Mr Rais, who supported the reform to be done. You know, one of the biggest problems of Czech regional education is constant reforms. We introduced the RVP, revolutionarily reformed something that worked for decades. Now there's another reform. So it's like the mantra that every reform is good by nature, it's just not. Otherwise, you're right, the delay is meant to be. I am a fundamental opponent of this method of financing because it will cause a disruption. So if you want something, do the strict cost, remove any competence to the regions, actually solve it from above, the system will work somehow, I won't agree with it because of my idea belief, but it will work. What comes out like this isn't gonna work. That's the main objection I have against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u17	Thank you. And another point of fact, I ask Mr Pojerný to speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u18	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would respond to my colleague Klaus, who said that this system is better than the one we approved in the past period. This is not the case, and I can confirm this, for example, by being from a large village agglomeration, and I know what it is like to finance the education of small schools, kindergartens, school facilities that we have in these areas. There is a difference between Prague, South Moravian Region or South Bohemia. Those are huge differences, and they don't get the money. The county has to do some sort of remedial work, too. The fact that there are large differences between regions is precisely this funding for the pupil. And the fact that the last House decided a little differently, not only to put the funding of the number of pupils or a piece, but also according to the performance of teachers, is only good. Little schools will be grateful for that. And if I have a reaction from our kindergartens, schools, in a village, where many eventually perished because of this funding. So I support this amendment of the law not to pass, to reject it at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u19	So I have a motion to dismiss. So now I have no further factual point, that is, we are going back to the general, or we are in the general debate. So, in due course, I have a registered Member, Tereza Hyťhová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal on delaying the reform of regional education funding has two aspects. First, whether it is appropriate to postpone the reform of regional education funding and to postpone its start from 1 September 2018 to a later date. Secondly, the second aspect is the question of how long this reform should be postponed. Several facts need to be said about the question of delaying the reform. The reform of funding abolishes the existing normative system of financing regional education through regional standardizations and introduces mainly a cost-based system based on the financing of a certain number of lessons learned, to be put very briefly. It must be acknowledged that normative financing poses certain problems and these problems have to be addressed. The reform authors have prepared a new system where funding will be distributed centrally on the basis of reports using information systems and a significant redistribution of competences in financing direct expenditure in education from the regions to the Ministry of Education will take place in principle. In this context, it must be asked whether this reform will be financially neutral. This means whether its introduction will require additional financial costs associated with the actual implementation of the reform. If so, it is necessary to know the height of these costs and guarantee their security. Furthermore, it is important to ask how schools are prepared to implement the reform. Whether the reform calls for organizational changes in schools, such as reduction of teaching, interference, class division, etc. I consider it essential that there will be a fundamental change in communication with schools during the start of reform. MŠMT should guarantee that at this point we have tried and verified software and school directors are already getting acquainted with the reports they will fill out. Regional representatives should tell us that they are ready to cover from their financial reserves the crisis situations that may arise in some schools and that they have a framework idea of the amount of reserves needed. If we do not have clear and certain answers to the above problems, I consider it absolutely necessary to postpone the reform. This delay must be used to fine-tune the organisational, technical and administrative problems associated with this reform. At the same time, the deferral should serve as a material revision of the entire plan. It is a question of whether certain adjustments to the normative financing could not be achieved by eliminating some of the shortcomings of this system. I am thinking, above all, of centralization and unification of normalists, of eliminating the normative differences in financing of individual schools and disciplines between the regions of the Czech Republic. It could happen that we realize that we can find solutions cheaper and more effective than the reform that is under way here. The ongoing concept of inclusive education should also be mentioned in the context of regional education funding. If there is no revision of the concept of inclusive education and its financing, the full predictability and stability of regional education funding will not be possible. Both problems should be solved together, as they are part of the same problem, and that is financial stability, predictability, financing regional education. Only a predictable and stable system will allow for a continuous solution to the increase in salaries in education that needs to be addressed. And it's our crucial program point. If we want to get real salaries to 130 percent of the average wage, we need a system, not a black hole for the money that Ms. Exminister Kateřina Valachová left behind. The second aspect is how long reform should be postponed. Here, with the counter-revolutionary honesty of our movement, I dare say that ten years is a bit much. In the course of the discussion, it would be appropriate to reduce this deadline considerably by the amendment. A year or two would certainly be enough. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u21	Thank you. And now here is a point of fact, so Mr. Václav Klaus. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u22	I will respond to Mrs Hyťhová. She hit one nail on the head, too, and that's inclusion. When we're dealing with every child, it's what it's all about for every child that needs to be allocated funds. So the normal kid's gonna have to have 60 grand for a pupil, I don't know, a blind kid like 400,000. If we introduce this famous reform, there'll be such a galitayas that no one knows about it ever again. We cannot support individual children, who are above all concerned. [[16.20 hours]] And I would still respond to what Mrs Hyťhová said, to the unpreparedness. I quote the opinion of the Association of Directors of Gymnasiums: MŠMT envisages the introduction of a change in funding from September 2018, but after two years of preparation implementing regulations are not yet approved, the value of PHmax is reduced, the school directors have no relevant numbers, how one teacher will be financed an hour, and they cannot calculate the impact on their specific school. They do not know what values in the number of hours they are to count on when establishing the post for the next year. We assumed that the reform would improve the conditions in education as announced. It is clear that without a significant increase in funding this will not be possible to implement, so we propose to postpone it, etc. So here's the problem with the unpreparedness, so I'd like to ask the minister to comment on how he's looking forward to it September, how it's going to work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u23	Well, thank you. And now for the next in the general debate, I have Mr Martin Baxa's envoy. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u24	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Let me divide my contribution on the proposal to postpone the reform of regional education funding into three parts. The first one is more of a general point, which concerns the issue of the difference in regional education and which has already been expressed here by one of the first speakers in particular. Ladies and gentlemen, the OECD has already read to the Czech school system that there are generally differences in regional education. But it is necessary, if we want to argue, to look at what was the object of the remorse. They were the subject of differences in the funding of basic education and also of secondary education. I am convinced of this, and I consider this to be one of the major problems of regional education reform from the very beginning, that it brought together the financing of municipal education, or basic education, and secondary education. I completely agree with the argument that funding for primary schools should be the same across the whole Republic. So what he mentioned here, for example. Mr Gazdík, when it is quite clear that the actual primary school from Aš to Bukovec should be financed in the same way. However, I do not agree with this, and I am perhaps here in a minority, that the regions should not have the right to influence secondary education on their territory when they are, moreover, founders of these secondary schools. I am simply convinced that regional differences between the funding of secondary education also reflect the priorities of individual regions in relation to secondary education set up by these regions. How the opinions of individual regional representations are reflected on what is to be the priority of the education system in their territory. I reject the fundamental centralisation of secondary education, which the reform assumes, and I think that the emergence of regional authorities and the fact that regions have been put into wine as well as secondary education in the creation of regional authorities should be justified, among other things, in funding. I am convinced that the hard, rigid central impact on the way secondary education is managed is simply not appropriate and that the inter-regional specifics can be what will eventually improve education in individual regions. Perhaps I speak only for one country, Plzensky. The ex-minister may know that the Pilsen Region was the only region that actually rejected the proposal for regional education reform, and it continues to disagree with it. However, it is not the subject of what we are discussing here, an expert discussion on how education should be financed - sorry, how regional education should be managed, but whether to postpone the reform of funding, as it was approved, and should come into effect from 1 September this year. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps I will highlight one more piece of information that the petitioner here spoke about, and that is that at the beginning of this year, I feel even that it was in March, Minister Plaga decided to postpone the effectiveness of the new system of regional education funding by one year. The proposal was later withdrawn by the Minister. But from the time the proposal existed, the explanatory statement was preserved. I would like to quote three paragraphs from this explanatory note. "It is proposed that the changes in the area of funding introduced by the amendment to the School Act should be effective for funding from the calendar year 2020. The additional time frame will allow the testing of school and school budgets for 2019 in both ways, i.e. according to the existing regional standard funding system and according to the new funding system. " Second paragraph. "The additional time will also be used to modify and test additional software modes of existing school software that could convert the data necessary for the new funding system from the register and thus eliminate both school errors and administrative burdens." Third paragraph. "Another reason to postpone the reform of regional education funding by one year is to secure funding for all the positive effects that the new funding setting can bring." Or what is evident from the explanatory memorandum of this Minister of the withdrawn bill is that the introduction of this amendment to life from 1 September this year contains not only the financial aspect, but generally the readiness of schools to this new system from part of software to some calculation practice to the statements that are needed. And so, as I have met with representatives of individual schools over the past few weeks, I have to say that in my opinion, there has been no shift, that in one month software systems would be tested, that everything would be tested, that everything would now be clear how to do it. I think it's a big gamble with the way reform is supposed to work from September 1st of this year on the very plane of the preparation. The way it should work technically in those schools. This means whether, in fact, from 1 September 2018, everything related to school funding will be in the first place, by the way, how teachers will receive salaries for each month, will be sufficiently technically ensured. And now, in my opinion, the most important thing. What is the basis for why it is proposed that the amendment to regional education funding be approved. I firmly believe that neither Minister Plaga nor the Government nor the Minister of Finance is binding at this time to tell all of us and to tell our public that financing in this regional education reform is ensured. [[with]] I have read in the media such a relatively vague statement, or a vague statement on the subject that there is a binding promise by the Finance Minister to provide those announced 11 billion. Crowns. On such a serious point that we are discussing today, the financing of regional education and, therefore, the way in which schools will run from 1 September 2018, I would expect the Minister to be here to reassure Members and to assure the public that there is enough funding to trigger the system. And the 11 billion. There's only one of the numbers that appears in that system. When the system under Minister Valachová was launched, when the law was launched, if I am not mistaken, my colleague through Mr President, you said that the amendment would cost 4 to 5 billion or 3 to 4 billion. per year. And now, a very short time has passed, we're at 11 billion. And as I prepared the material, when I studied the amendment proposal, I realized that nowhere is written, nowhere has the Ministry of Education published sufficiently transparent formulas and not in the mathematical sense, but in the sense where the number 11 billion. It came. Where it says it's really gonna cost 11 billion. The crown and it won't be 12, 13, 17, 20? I'm really worried about this. And if I hear opinions, for example. expert associations, Mr. Speaker mentioned here the Association of Directors of Gymnasiums, but also others, so I ask whether now, about four months before the system should start working, we are not gambling with financing Czech education. I answered that on the basis of the information I have that I do. When the Minister said a month ago in the bill, what everything must be added, what everything must be found there. When the Minister of Finance is not here, and no one else who would put his hand on the table and say yes, from next year, from 2019, is on the table of 11, 15 billion. CZK to the education system. I am really seriously concerned that if the reform of education funding fails to be postponed, there are really serious problems for Czech education. And the fact that we cannot even estimate this development now shows how, at the time of its creation and at the moment, the amendment to regional education funding or the new system of regional education funding has been approved without consideration and without sufficient thought of the consequences it may have. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And I've got another envoy named Valachová here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed many times this year, but also during the approval of the state budget for this year, across the political spectrum with great agreement - perhaps we have not agreed on much more than this - that our education, education, education is underfunded. We agreed that in our education every year, even after three record budgets and increases in the salaries of both teachers and non-teachers - here through the President to Mrs Hyťhová, she probably forgot three record budgets - so despite this fact, it is true that several tens of billions are missing. That's right. It is also true that the Czech education system stands at least, in quotation marks, or that we give it to the least of all OECD countries. That's true, too. When we were discussing the budget, we were chasing who would propose 20 billion. plus 30, 40, 50, 60. And now we are questioning the fair, fair funding of schools at the rate of impact of 10 billion. plus, of course, an increase in the salaries of teachers and non-teachers, as the House has committed the government. That's another, let's say, about 20 billion. If I count correctly, it's about 30 billion. So we still can't look forward to getting much better at funding schools. What's wrong with that, I don't know. And I also don't know why this political agreement is suddenly leaving us over the parliamentary term to secure this money for schools. The question is not whether we need fair funding for schools, it is quite clear that we do. It is also quite clear that we have approved new funding for schools. It is also quite clear that it was not born here again, frankly, in one head, but, on the contrary, for more than two years, it has been working honestly on this change. The Association of Local Authorities, the Association of Towns and Municipalities, the Association of Elementary Schools, the Association of Apprenticeship Equipment, Secondary Professional Schools, CZESHA, the Association of Gymnasiums, School Unions and then the practitioners, the directors of schools of all levels, all systems, special schools, art schools, sports schools, school clubs, school cafeterias and all other segments that our education contains. This means, it was a long professional, professionally demanding work which, of course, was not easy, but - and now it is important - all the professional associations, and I am sorry by your means, Mr President, that the petitioner here also does not quote them on microphones, that is, school unions, the Elementary Schools Association, the Association of Apprentice Equipment, CZESHA, the largest association bringing together our schools, all these associations say fundamentally delay no! And they also say stop making fun of us, and if you really want to change the quality of the education system, give us money to do it. Surprisingly, I may agree with what has been said here from the mouth of the translator. Yes, the center has no power. Yes, our school financing system is bureaucratic, and even yes, we promote any change in the education system, although it is better or better suited to modern education systems, it always encounters a crucial limit and thus underfinances Czech education and an unfair system of school financing. That's just the way it is. That's just the way it is. As far as costs are concerned, estimates of the effects of new school funding are certainly true here, I am testifying to Mr Bax through the President, yes, during the discussions in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate, the effects of the new funding were estimated at around 5 billion. It's true. On the other hand, my fellow Members, bear in mind that any increase - and I wish it to be as important as possible - the evaluation of teachers and non-teachers is immediately reflected logically in the impact of new funding. So, please, let's not test out here that if, in the meantime, we've managed to increase wages and wages twice as much, then we're surprised that the impact of changes in funding will be more expensive. In this respect, I firmly believe that the greater the delay, the more expensive the impact of new school funding. Because I firmly believe that all political parties will fulfill the fact that teachers and non-teachers' evaluations will be significantly increased each year. And then it is important to say that, in terms of the effects of new school funding, it is necessary to say, and it is fair to say that this is not just about the impacts, the real effects of new funding. This means, this is the quality that the rapporteur spoke of - dividing classes fairly, so that all schools, foreign languages, mathematics, ITIs, can really prepare for Industry 4.0, not just dream about it, but to make it a reality, because we already have a huge delay behind Western Europe and I don't want our children to be in position with shovels. I really don't want that. So these are the fair effects of new funding for schools. But what else does the new funding of schools show? It shows what we had swept under the carpet for years in education. It shows up, for example. This, and I am surprised, therefore, that the solution is hindered through the new funding of schools, that nursery schools had no real operating time financed for 13 years. We had a big debate about this recently, and we all wanted to improve the conditions. Now is the moment. Now is the moment to find funding so that the operating hours of kindergarten schools are well funded. Now is the moment to admit how many non-edogs work in our education and that the directors are not Ferd mravenc and beetles pytlík together, they cannot play at the same time as an accountant, personalist, various admins of subsidies and public procurement. Yes, they need non-edagogues, and we've been pretending not to, and we've been looking at it since 2005. This is all about fixing new funding. And frankly solved, new funding condemns the entire system of existing funding from huge hypocrisy. And I want it to end. Thank you, Mr President, for the active approach of the regions and for what the rapporteur has said here in plenary. From the point of view of preparation at the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, I just want to say so much that in the first quarter of last year, the Ministry processed and had at its disposal - and this has never happened before - an analysis of secondary vocational education and grammar schools, a network of grammar schools and secondary vocational schools. It had a processed analysis in cooperation with the Association of Local Authorities and the Union of Towns and Municipalities on the network of kindergartens, primary schools and small-class schools, because we will keep small-class schools in our municipalities only through new funding. All of this has been processed and, yes, long talks have been held in accordance with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance that the consequences of the reform will be calculated on the basis of these analyses. It is nothing new and I believe that the project of new financing, fair financing of our schools and real guarantees of quality education for our children in the future, promoted by the coalition of ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL, will reach the end despite another term of office. And I would like not only to wish it a lot of strength, because this will, of course, be a challenge, but also, of course, through the possibilities that we Members have in the Chamber of Deputies, to offer assistance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u27	Thank you. I have a request for two factual points. However, Minister Robert Plaga has come to see me that he would like to make a statement. Now I ask, I have here both Mr. Baxa and Mr. Klaus, if you give room, it's up to you, you have priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u28	I wanted to respond to my previous speaker so you wouldn't forget. There's a little demagogy going on here, mixing two things. Because no one is questioning raising the education budget. He's questioning the pointless way to get this money into schools. Demotivating for busy schools. Because, honestly, school without kids doesn't make much sense, so you're going to finance a school where there's almost no one. We have high schools with 60% capacity. The D.O.D. doesn't deal with it for four - I don't know how many years, six, eight. These are the problems our system has, and instead, a new revolutionary method that isn't verified, it's not ready, it's going to cost 20 billion or how much, and who knows if, and we're going to throw it into schools. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u29	Thank you. I would therefore now ask for the speech of the Minister of Education Robert Plaga and then prepare for Mr Baxa's factual comment. I'm gonna read the apologies real quick. I can see that they're gathered here. Mr Sadovský apology to the end of the negotiations today for work reasons. Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes from 16.30 to the end of the day for family reasons and Mr Petr Dolínek apologises from 16.00 to 1745 hours for working reasons. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u30	Mr President, honourable Members. I consider it necessary to comment on the proposal of Members on which the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has expressed a disagreeable opinion. This dissenting position taken by the Ministry is mainly linked to the expected benefit of the new reform of regional education funding. The reform is founded and requires a fairer redistribution of state budget resources to individual schools and educational establishments and respect for the specifics of educational institutions in individual regions. At present, and it has already fallen, Republic normalities are defined as the amount of relevant expenditure attributable to one child's education and school services, one pupil's or a student's. It is therefore a normative method of financing. But then the Republic normalization becomes different financial systems of individual regions. This means that it is an instrument for the breakdown of the relevant state budget funds among individual regions. The regional standard, which is determined by the Regional Authority in its delegated capacity, subsequently represents the amount of expenditure, always per specific unit of performance, which has been shown for a long time to be a very loose legal formulation which allows regional authorities to establish regional standardizations with significant inter-regional deviations for similar units of performance. And here I understand that there may be some ideological dispute, because of course the question is whether you prefer standardization of education in the Czech Republic, or whether it is the purely normative way in which each student puts on a backpack with the money and travels through the system. This problem, which was the main reason for presenting the draft reform of regional education funding approved in 2017, persists. That is why I believe that it really is not appropriate to consider the long-term postponement of these changes at this time. For example, in the field of secondary education, the current model often leads to the admission of pupils who may not have a course of study or even study it, which leads to a reduction in the quality of education and also to an inefficient spending of State budget funds. Simply, the struggle for students in secondary education, for the individual heads, is quite fundamentally failing thanks to normative funding. However, I consider it necessary to comment on other things, because it is true that I have proposed and postponed the government for one year. The main reason for the fall from my previous speakers was an unsecured financial cover at the time. There were other reasons, but if we are talking about the fact that schools cannot clearly determine at the moment, look at what means, how many volumes of funds they have for 2019, then I would like to point out that the current system is about finding out in March 2018 and that after conciliation proceedings in April they will only learn the final situation, that is, the basic breakdown will be found in March and the final situation after conciliation proceedings during April. That means the first four months of each year go without detailed knowledge of the budget. Therefore, of course, it is not possible for each individual school in the same April 2018 to show the means and schedule for 2019. Yes, but it was stated in the explanatory memorandum that if there were a one-year delay due to the fact that the funds would be provided up to 2020, it is perfectly correct and legitimate to drive those two systems simultaneously, that is to eliminate the uncertainty of individual schools. And if the new way is really unfair, it certainly is, but it brings enough resources to the school against the current situation. So these were supplements that were definitely appropriate, but they weren't worth the one-year delay request. And because I said that I consider it necessary to reveal exactly as it was, so when I said that budget cover had not been secured, and in the final report an assessment of the impact of regulation on the draft law financed by the reform, it is written that an estimated CZK 2.5 to 5 billion in eliminating the significant negative effects of the new system on the available resources of individual legal entities engaged in the activities of schools and educational establishments and thus on the level of remuneration of their employees - that is the calculated impact. At the same time - budgetary strategy of the public finance sector, respectively. public institutions, i.e. the convergence programme approved last year, are counting on the reform of regional education funding with an amount of CZK 3.5 billion for 2019. So the moment we calculated the other related things, i.e. things that do not only go into the settlement of regional disparities, which may be CZK 5 billion, but also in the increase in the quality of teaching, which I suppose everyone in this House, and not only in the House, agree, so we found the amount that exceeds CZK 10 billion, and it was entirely justified from my point of view that I gave the material with an annual delay to the government. So, in total, reform brings costs of more than CZK 11 billion, and they were not, I say responsibly and frankly, included in the expenditure frameworks. So I started looking for the funds. And I think that the promise of the government, the promise of the Prime Minister, that the funds in the preparation of the budget of 2019 will be included in the budget of the Ministry of Education, is sufficient and there is no need for the Minister of Finance to be present here and valid the Government's decisions again. Allow me, however, to take a small turn on the state of the financial coverage of the MŠMT measure, because this has also been said in the discussion here. Plus, I've recently been intersected on this matter. A similar case to the reform of funding, where I said that in medium-term expenditure frameworks there was definitely not the amount that it cost, I honestly admit, was also a case of joint education. According to the original estimate provided in the explanatory memorandum on the draft order No 27 of 2016 had the impact on the state budget of around CZK 1 billion for 2017 and 1.5 billion for 2018. However, real costs would have risen almost up to CZK 7 billion in 2017, thanks to the amendment of the Decree, which entered into force during 2017, they managed to keep them at CZK 6 billion. Here, let me thank my predecessor Stanislav Štech. Anyway, even this amount is much higher than the original estimate. A similar case is the second matter in which I was intersected, it is the provision of so-called. Overlay in kindergarten. Although the framework education programme for pre-school education has been adapted, the budgetary envelope for this change has again not been provided in any way. The regional education budget for local authorities was not specifically reinforced in 2017, nor did it happen in the implementation of the budget for 2018. It is therefore obvious that everything in education, and thus confirming the words of my previous speaker, is about finances, not everything in education, but about funding the measures that are on the table today, and I believe that, when we agree that the funding for regional education and this change is, this change can start in 2019. I am therefore in favour of rejecting Mr Klaus' proposal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u31	Thank you, Minister. I'll read another apology. So today, from 5:30 p.m. to the end of the day, Mr. Špičák apologizes. I now have two factual points, so Mr Baxa and Mrs Valachová will be prepared and subsequently, if I do not have another application, we will continue with the duly signed up in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to have a factual point originally in relation to my previous speaker. Madam President, I would like to turn against the way you started your speech, in the sense that there is a link between the system of financing regional education and the level of teacher's salaries. I want to make it clear for myself and for the Citizen Democratic Party that we clearly support, and it was an important part of our electoral programme, an increase in the salaries of teachers. This has nothing to do with how these funds are distributed. On the second point, I would like to respond to the speech of Minister Plaga. I must, through Mr President, Minister, appreciate your honesty and openness with which you say this is not quite common with members of the government in resignation, but I must say that your honesty and openness in me has only strengthened my concern about how the funding of this system will take place from 1 September this year. Just promise isn't a line in the budget. As mayor or mayor of the city of Pilsen, I know that only when the council approved some budgetary measures in this case, budget change, we could talk about the fact that we have money for the system. And that's not what happened here. And I will just point out to the full conclusion that the overlap you were talking about, the overlap of 2,5 hours per class from September 2017 to December 2017, in four months, was worth CZK 24 million in our region and the regional authority was not fully able to cover it and there is no limit to the extent of paid attendance in kindergarten. That's one thing. Second topic. The same applies, in fact, to the funding of kindergarten schools for the whole year. Just for the record, we have 100 million crowns. And by not being included in the volume, as you said, the 100 million crowns simply disappeared at the expense of primary schools.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u33	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also respond with brief factual remarks to my previous speakers. The question of higher salaries for teachers and non-teachers against whether or not this is related to a new way of financing. It has something to do with it, because every minister or minister every year in the current system, no matter what political party it is, it is struggling with the fact that, even if it earns money to increase the salaries of teachers or non-teachers, never, never, not even if it stands on its head, and I have done everything I can to do and I have taken a number of measures to make that money reach schools and then into the pocket, into the wallet of individual teachers of non-teachers, so you just don't get it. The reason for this is that at the beginning, if the number of born children falls in individual regions, and it falls almost everywhere, there will be such a reduction, which then does not correspond to the volume we need to pay the salaries for each paycheck. And this is supposed to change the new funding. That's why it's very relevant. I try very hard not to be demagogical in my contributions. As regards what is or is not properly ensured in the financing in the budget. The question of funding 2.5 hours in kindergarten schools, so-called This is usually the time when teachers need to go out because they have it in the framework education programme, that's the duty, I've said it here, so to speak, always. Always. That means she was always supposed to be funded. It is a legal obligation, and this should always be ensured by kindergarten teachers. That's just the way it is. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I'm sorry, so I'm not going to hold back and apply for a proper allowance because we promised ourselves we wouldn't use actual contributions, abuse them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u35	We are now in the general debate with the duly registered Members, so I have the order here and I will ask Mrs Mauritzová to speak. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since there has been a great deal said here, I will not repeat myself in my contribution, but I would like to emphasise two fundamental points. The first is that we are not concerned with interfering with this reform. The point is that this proposal for reform of funding for higher education does not disturb reform, but it opens up a debate again on what regional education financing should look like. Indeed, there are large funds going to schools, education spending is basically the second largest in the state budget, so we are talking about a large number of funds that we should be able to get to schools effectively. The aim of this proposal is therefore to reopen the debate on the financing of education. At the same time, I would like to say that it is not possible to say: so we have now found some funds, so let's go, let's do something to get something going, so we don't completely stop it again. We would like the debate to open up, and we have come up with a proposal for funding that would bring stability and functionality to the system of financing regional education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u37	Thank you and the next in line is Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u38	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have also entered into a debate on this proposal and have actually led me to this sum of the experiences that I have from education either as a teacher or as a director and founder of the private grammar school, the Governor of the Region, namely the representative of the founder of public schools at the level of secondary education, and now also as a Member who must then decide on these changes, on these matters. I must remind you that regional education funding is actually based on two fundamental pillars, and it has already been said here that its founders are public self-government units, i.e. municipalities and regions. What we're talking about here is what we call it. direct costs which come into the budget of the regions as money for a large part on the salaries of teachers, or on the financing of the purchase of aids, and go through the budget of the regions as such charred money, which the region cannot decide in its self-governing capacity. And then there is the second pillar of regional education funding, and that is to finance operating costs, i.e. the cost of operating buildings, electricity, water, the financing of the costs of providing heat for schools, and of course for repairs, reconstructions and investments. This is financed by municipalities and regions from their budgets, municipalities for primary schools, regions then for secondary schools. So we're talking about the direct cost of salaries right now. That's the subject of our negotiations. I also received an e-mail sent to us by Mrs Valachová, who summarized the views of those important players in regional education. I have also read them, the reasons, mostly speaking in favour of the proposed reform and encouraging us to reject the proposal by Mr Klaus, or the petitioners, which I also count on, because I have also co-signed the bill that Mr Klaus, as our representative, is presenting here. And I noticed that there was a mistake in my mind. [[17,00 hours]] They're talking - I'll read it now. The Union of Towns and Municipalities praises the reform, the change that the municipalities allegedly called for as a change when money is distributed according to performance, as Mr Lukl says by the President of the SMO CR. The Association of elementary school directors also speaks similarly. They're talking about a real power unit, class and department. The union then talks about the work, its funding from the state, like the work the state orders. And finally, back to the Elementary School Director's Association again. They talk about the fact that what we have at the present time - the normative system - creates unequal conditions for primary school pupils. They're kind of physical variables, work - performance, and of course you need to look at it a little bit. The average output is work divided by the time it was done. And maybe they're right here if they want to see this way of financing. Then we would take the overall work as the energy spent by the teacher, the energy spent on heating, lighting, building the schools, repairing them, and over time. But those supporters of the power system who mention it that way forget that the work, the energy can be spent in front of a class that's full, or also in front of a class where a lot of chairs are empty, because the school doesn't have enough students. So they ignore another significant quantity that is related to performance, and that is efficiency. So while some performance here will be achieved from this point of view, its effectiveness will be small, because often the performance will not be performed before the proper number of students. As a human, I don't like to change things that last. And I say frankly, we have welcomed the normative system. It seemed good for each student to carry with him - and I do not like the comparison that he will carry in some backpack or school bag, but there will be some expenses associated with his personality, which may then be attributed to the school he enters. And I think that the system has its flaws, of course, there are extreme cases, as my colleague Gazdík mentioned here, or my colleague Valachová, those small, small-class schools in municipalities or primary art schools, where efficiency is not exactly the main criterion of their existence. On the other hand, I see the system as a very fair system. The funding system for the teaching unit, as in performance, has a whole series of errors, of course. It's complicated. I fear that its supporters have not understood it throughout the wide range and that unfortunately, even those who are to implement it do not understand it, i.e. directors and representatives of those regional or urban authorities who will then have to be able to redistribute the money well. Both systems, if they are to achieve the objective, i.e. the effective functioning of education, encounters one significant phenomenon, and this is the establishmental power of the regions or municipalities to the middle, possibly. elementary schools. It's just that both systems have to react somehow to the fact that there are schools that aren't interested, which simply have few pupils that nobody reports to. Despite the fact that all pupils today have to pass entrance exams at secondary schools, we will find that schools that have no pupils after the first round of admission procedures have one third of their capacity filled, and these are schools that should not be here, should not exist. There just has to be courage, the power of the regional government must be to close such a school. And that's very complicated. Whoever of you has ever worked at the level of municipal or regional self-government, you must know well what a huge political problem it is to abolish such a school, with what all those who embrace the intention must face. He's gonna fight those students' petitions. Today we know well that pupils feel their strength, they know that when they come out in the square, they can achieve their goal fairly simply. Parents who don't want any changes to abolish the school. And the deputies would rather not even submit the intention. Their instinct for self-preservation is always proportional to the approaching elections. We in southern Bohemia, I remember, in 2005, a year after the election, abolished about a third of secondary vocational schools and secondary schools, including some grammar schools. Since then, no one has decided to do such a violent procedure. It was, as I say, a year after the election, when we had great coalition political strength back then. It's the same at community level. Today, the elementary school in the village, even the small class, is one of the few phenomena that helps to maintain a sense of belonging to the community, a sense of community association. The church, the pub - so we have often managed to shut down the EET and the smoking ban, and now it is possible that the small number of pupils could be shut down by elementary schools as well. Here I think the municipality, and here it also mentioned, I think, colleague Baxa, must find the strength and agreement in its council to help finance not only the operating costs, i.e. heat, electricity, the building, but also contribute to the salaries of teachers, if they want to keep the school, despite the fact that the number of pupils does not meet the standards that we require them to receive in the form of normative terms. Funding under the law that's about to start paying isn't gonna solve anything. There will still be schools that will be inefficient, which will have few pupils. It will only delay the ability to find consensus on abolishing such schools, shut down such schools and money from them in vain, inefficiently, to transfer where their spending will be effective, especially into the pockets of teachers in the form of increases in their salaries. I co-signed the proposal. It means that I identify with him, and I will, of course, vote in favour of him going to second reading. I refuse to reject it. And I also call on you to give this proposal a chance to go through the second reading and reject the bill by voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And I will ask the next one to speak to Mr. František Vácha. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, Mr. Speaker, I come up with the opinion of the TOP 09 Club on the proposed amendment. We're not gonna support this novel. With great enthusiasm, we adopted the amendment to House Press 61, which we will, of course, support. Here we have come to the conclusion that, of course, the system of financing regional education can be either per capita or per unit. And in our opinion, the system currently requires such changes that they can no longer be made by modifying the system to the head of the pupil. Of course, each of these systems has its advantages and disadvantages, which will appear there or elsewhere, and the performers will defend their system, which is closer to them. We leaned to support the system to the teaching unit. We're not suggesting rejection. I could imagine a shift, a shift in efficiency by a year or two, to better prepare it. Those ten years, which, through the President, the promoter, will not be angry with me if it is indeed annihilation, we can probably say that to ourselves. However, when we listened to the Minister and he told us that inclusion was going to cost one million, and eventually it looked like it was going to cost six, or it was going to cost seven, and it would cost six, then of course the risk of funding this system being higher, here it is. Of course, when you come up with a new system, there's always gonna be mistakes. You just can't think of anything from the table to make it perfect. We are aware of the risk that the system will gradually evolve and converge to some slightly optimal condition. We will not vote to reject it, but if it went through the next reading, we probably wouldn't have supported the law at the end if it had stayed there for ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u41	Thank you for the show. I will now read the apologies: Mrs Balaštíková from 17 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Marek Výborný from 17.15 until the end of the meeting for working reasons and subsequently Mrs Květa Matušovská from 17 o'clock to the end of the day. I will ask another Member, who I have in my turn, to speak - Mr Lukáš Bartona. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u42	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a brief opinion from the pirát. A new reform is being born here. He's in a lot of labor pains, and I'm sure you can expect children's diseases after this birth. [[Fun in the hall.]] However, reform has the potential to improve the quality of education. The pirates welcome the pledge of funds for this reform, which we have heard publicly from the Minister of Education. For this reason, we support the reform of funding to be implemented as soon as possible. The pirates therefore join the motion to reject the delay at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u43	So the motion is to reject the law at first reading. We already have one of those suggestions, so I'm gonna make a note of you that there are two of them. I will then ask Mr Antonín Staněk to speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u44	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer add more information to what has been said here, which I would like to repeat in many cases. However, let me briefly make a few comments on the proposal for a group of Members to cancel or... I say cancellation, because a ten-year delay in reform is basically its hidden cancellation. It has been said here, for example, that we should reopen the debate and debate on the reform of the financing of regional schools that would bring stability and functionality. I confess that I do not always agree with the views that speak out of the mouth of any movement or party that speaks of Parliament being a blabbermouth and just debating and debating, and nothing will be done. But in this case, I would have to take the view that, after a long debate, after a long debate, after huge concessions, agreement and consensus on reform of regional education funding has been reached in the last parliamentary term. There has been an agreement which, I would say, does not have such a great tradition in Czech education matters. And it's a shame that we essentially devalue this agreement by putting it off for one, two, five or ten years. The promoter, by your means, Mr President, said here the views of various associations and professional associations. Unfortunately, as my previous speaker here spoke, I have before me the opinion of the Association of Primary School Directors of the Czech Republic. I have the views of the trade unions here. I have the CZESHA opinions here. I have the views of the Union of Cities and Cities. I have the opinions of the Association of Apprentice Equipment. I'm not gonna read them to you here. But if I read them, they all agree on one thing: do not postpone approved reform of regional education funding. If the funds have been found, and I believe that they have been found, because words have been heard here either from the mouth or through the Minister from the Prime Minister's mouth, the Minister, I believe that the funds are ready, they are found, and they are the means that education needs. If we postpone the reform, I ask where will these funds be transferred to? My last point, which I would like to say in this regard, is precisely on the part of the speaker, through Mr President, of the associations and expert organisations. Today, I sent the President my personal opinion on the ensemble invited to a joint meeting within the Committee's deliberations. I simply believe that it is not only those opinions that are in favour of me or which agree with me that can be chosen, but it is necessary to actually give word to everyone in a wide range of professional organisations. I believe that the education unions, the education workers' unions are a very important organisation. They, too, clearly stand by for the reform of regional education funding not to be postponed. Once again, I could give a whole range of factual examples here, how unfair the current situation is, when a school, which is in a region where it has an average of 18 pupils, will eventually receive about 5.5 million per pupil for nine years, nine years, another school, which is in a region or an area where it has a better chance of getting children, so it gets considerably more. But there's the same teacher. The same teacher teaches the same class, teaches him the same number of hours. Why should the school head in some way be put in a position to ensure that the same teacher at the same school has the same money as another teacher at that school who has more children? [[17.20 hours]] And lastly, the problem is that there are schools that are filled and those that aren't filled. So as far as primary schools are concerned, I would say here that, of course, schools have a big problem, where pupils go to multi-year grammar schools, which means that these pupils are being sucked into multi-annual grammar schools. On the other hand, I'm asking, we don't want to interrupt high school, we don't want to cancel high school training just because there's not enough pupils. On the contrary, the regions finance, finance these schools. And the reform that we want to postpone now is to eliminate these problems and to eliminate these disparities in some way. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a unique opportunity today. In a situation where the number of children in primary schools is growing and when these children will transfer to secondary schools in the future, we have in our hands the possibility of ensuring funding for all secondary schools, not just for grammar schools, not just for secondary schools, but for all secondary schools, vocational schools, so that the school directors can be absolutely sure of their funding at the beginning of the school year, and they may not function in various commissions and then shake where to get the money. For this reason, I am not only joining the Czech Social Democratic Party Club with those proposals that have already been made, but also making a motion to reject the amendment of the law, which is presented here through Mr Klaus as House Press 102. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u45	Thank you. And now I'm going to read two more apologies that I have here. So I would like to apologize for today's meeting of Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch since 17.45 for work reasons. And Mr. Jiří Mašek apologizes from 17.30 to the end of the day and even tomorrow, 19. Four, for work reasons, so I'm gonna read the whole thing. Now I see no more factual points, nor do I see a request for a general debate, so this concludes the general debate. Now I'm going to give room for the final words. So, Mr. Václav Klaus, with the final word, declared himself the plaintiff here. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And Mr. Vondrák, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the substantive discussion, although sometimes the opinions in question did not please me. But I'll try to tell you again. You don't give any money to schools, you give money to a reform that's unprepared, which is dangerous, which is unsystemic. We watched a lot here in the last parliamentary term, when inclusive decrees were introduced here, so you also said how well prepared it is, what a great impact it will have for education and it will cost a billion crowns tops. Schools are in chaos, they've grown in a huge way of bureaucracy, and instead of the billions you've announced, it costs $6 billion. Now there's something similar. You passed the law, you pushed it through the force, you said it was going to cost $3 billion, now we're talking about guarantees from the finance secretary to $11 billion, and if I multiply it by the same coefficient as your inclusion, we're at $60 billion. So, all of you who vote to dismiss, we'll confront you when it starts in September. When the chaos starts in the schools, when there's the same situation as the inclusion, I'm gonna take you all out on the high. Consider what you want to vote for!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u47	Thank you. And the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Ivo Vondrák, has also taken the floor. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Please, just for a very short time. One important message, and it said here: we do not want to have crowded classes and we do not want to have empty classes. We need to have the optimal number of children and pupils in classes. That's what the reform is all about. So I think we should give her a chance to be put in her life as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-012-024.u49	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal tabled. So I'm gonna call the front-room MP's gong. Application for check-out - yes, would you like to unsubscribe? I've already done it twice, but thank you for the heads-up. I don't see a checkout application. Yes, there's an application for check-out, so I'm signing you off and please sign up again with your voting cards. I even have a three-way motion to dismiss, but we will, of course, only vote on it once. The rapporteur Ivo Vondrák... that's how it works. [[Card in the voting device.]] So I'm gonna say what we're gonna vote on one more time. We will vote on the proposal to reject the proposal. Initiating vote now. Whoever is in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Whoever opposes rejection, press the button and raise your hand. In the vote number 103, 141 Members voted in favour of 99, against 37, a motion for rejection was adopted. So I'm done discussing this press. I thank both the appellant and the rapporteur. We will proceed to discuss the next press. This is the point
