ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government. I'm opening the 18th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. I'm going to ask you all to settle down in your seats and sign up with your I.D. cards. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set up a draft agenda for the 18th meeting on Wednesday, 8 August this year. The invitation was sent to you on Thursday, August 9th of this year. Mr Farhan informed me about the vote with a replacement card and voted with a replacement card number 5. Mr Kasal votes with replacement card number 6. Mr Michálek with replacement card number 11. Mr Bartoš with card number 8. Mr. Mr. Vymazal with a replacement card number 2. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna ask you once more to calm down. As you may know, the President of the Republic appointed Mrs Jana Maláčová, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on 30 July this year. So let me welcome the new member of the government among us and wish her every success in her work. Okay, it's for applause. [[Let's hear it.]] And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Members of Stanislav Berkovec and Members of Jiří Mihola. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anyone. In this case, I shall begin the vote. I'm asking, who is for such a proposed verifier? Who's against it? It's vote number one. 149 Members are registered, for 143, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have appointed members of Stanislav Berkovec and members of Jiří Mihola as verifiers of the 18th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I agree that before the opening of the meeting they asked to apologise for their absence to the meetings by the following Members: Dana Balcarová for family reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek for family reasons, Jan Čižinský for family reasons, Lenka Dražilová for family reasons, Vojtěch Filip for personal reasons, Miroslav Grebeníček for health reasons, Jaroslav Holík for reasons of foreign travel, Milan Chovanec for foreign travel reasons, Miloslav Janulík without reason, František Kopřiva for personal reasons, Jan Krutáková for family reasons, Helena Langšádlová for personal reasons, Zuzana Ožanová for family reasons, Miloslava Rutová for working reasons, Martin Stropnický for health reasons, Helena Válková for personal reasons, Miloslava Vostrá for health reasons. Jan Kněžínek apologizes from the members of the government for work reasons and Miroslav Toman from 11 o'clock for work reasons. With the replacement card number 14, Mr Profant votes with the replacement card number 16, Mr Okleštěk. We will now proceed to the establishment of the agenda of the 18th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. Before the beginning of the meeting, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová asked for a speech in the absence of President Kalousek with priority rights, which I hereby give the floor to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I'll read three names now. Sergeant Martin Marcin, Corporal Kamil Beneš, Corporal Patrik Štěpánek. These three men died on August 5, 2018 as soldiers of the Czech Republic, and I think it would be dignified, because we have been meeting for the first time since then to begin our meeting by honoring their memory with a minute of silence, which I am now asking you to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u3	I will be happy to grant this request and ask you to stand up. [[Members rise up, and with a minute's silence they worship the memory of the dead soldiers.]] Thank you. Another with priority rights wants to comment on the agenda of the meeting, possibly to propose its addition, President Bartoš. Then, with priority rights, President Faltýnek. Then Vice-President Okamura came forward. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u4	Good morning, honourable Members, honourable Members, Government, Mr President. I took the liberty of signing up in writing because I would like to propose another item for today's meeting. It's a solid printing classification 167. I'd like to include him immediately after discussing the press 120. It is already known here in the House and several times the government bill amending Act No. 236/1995 Coll., on salaries and other formalities relating to the performance of the office of representatives of state authority and of certain state bodies, judges and Members of the European Parliament, as amended. Yes, it's the proposal that's supposed to prevent a jumping increase in politicians' salary by 20 percent. We have had this proposal on the agenda several times in the Chamber of Deputies. Unfortunately, there was no will or time or energy to discuss this point. The pirát and I have already proposed his assignment, his solid inclusion, the agenda of the meeting, and he should have been one of the points that we were supposed to discuss at the last meeting before the House holidays. But there was clearly no will to get to this point, because it was voted by a number of Members of the early termination of the last meeting. We would like this proposal to be discussed. We think that, in terms of fact, when we talk about average wage growth in the Czech Republic around 10%, in some areas, it is not a good example by Members to increase the salaries of Members and other factors by 20 percent from the first following year. We also want to place this point firmly today, especially because if this point is not enough to be discussed, of course, the increase in our salaries will happen automatically, and this would actually be on the table again next year. It is not a good message to the citizens of the Czech Republic. And we're under scrutiny. And I do not take into account the moments when some Members are judged by little working because of their crippled attendance or perhaps some small performance and participation. But if we are discussing, and even at tripartite level, there is a great struggle to raise the minimum wage, when we are talking, whether to add it to those or not, people working in the health sector, people working in the social field, and we are actually squabbling about a matter that is far closer to citizens than we, who are sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies, I think that we support the negotiation, the inclusion of this point today, but at the same time support this government proposal and deal with it, it is an important message to citizens that we are on the same level as citizens and as employees in other spheres of the commercial or state sector, and we do not want to block ourselves or we do not want to maintain a state where this addition should happen at once. [[10.10 hours]] I must positively acknowledge the statement that I have noted today in connection with the Government's negotiations, when Prime Minister Andrej Babiš supported, or said to the media that the inclusion of this item at the meeting today is in favour of this inclusion. And I hope that the parliamentary clubs, especially the parliamentary clubs, which are part of the government coalition at the moment, will vote in favour of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning or morning, esteemed colleagues. I wanted to take the floor after the meeting of our parliamentary club with basically the same proposal. Our MP has discussed this matter today. I would like to stress that this is a government proposal. It's a government proposal that the government sent to the House, I feel, during the month of May. So we agreed today to support the inclusion of this item on the agenda of today's meeting as a second item. Our parliamentary club will vote in favour of this inclusion so that this law can be discussed by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. In addition, Vice-President Okamura came forward with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u8	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I propose the inclusion of a new item entitled The Discussion of the Basic Parameter of Pension Reform. Now allow me to justify our proposal. Our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement has long considered one of the key problems of ensuring a decent life for people who have worked their productive age, who have worked their entire productive age, and thus paid taxes and insurance to the state. Today, hundreds of thousands of pensioners are in poverty, whose pensions are objectively insufficient to meet the basic needs of life. I repeat - to the basic needs of a dignified life. So rent, energy and services, food and health costs. Even more difficult is the situation of seniors who lose their life mates. Perhaps all the governments of the past have declared an interest in implementing pension reform, but it has always been empty words and actions that have been lacking. Our SPD movement is promoting steps that will lead to some adjustments to the shortcomings of the current system. Above all, we refuse to question the fundamental role of the first pillar of the pension system. It must ensure the guarantee of a decent life for people with the lowest pension. In order to do so, its possible multi-source financing is necessary. The lowest pension is essential for assessing the life situation of pensioners and the quality of the pension system. We are in favour of a high level of social solidarity in the first pillar and I believe that this principle is also accepted by people with higher income. We want to enforce the principle that the lowest pension must be tied firmly to the minimum wage. This means, for example, this year it would be CZK 12,200 for all pensioners at least and from this amount to merit. In our opinion, both the lowest pension and the minimum wage, in both cases it is a similar social guarantee of the state. In the case of the inclusion of this point proposed by us, we propose the following resolution of the House: "The Chamber of Deputies considers it necessary to ensure the minimum pension rate at minimum wage level when dealing with pension reform'. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. Another with priority rights, President Bartošek. Then President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to include a new item in the Chamber of Deputies' agenda. The design of this point is the Memorial of the Victims for the 50th anniversary of the invasion and occupation of Czechoslovakia by the Warsaw Treaty troops in 1968. We have decided to apply for this point because, whether the Communist Party within the Czech Republic or Russia is acting in such a way that it is disparaging and distorting what happened back in 1968. I think the Chamber of Deputies has a clear statement that in 1968 it was an invasion and then an occupation of our country. I would like to ask you to include this item on the agenda of the meeting, stating that KDU-ČSL is proposing the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies declares that the invasion of five states of the Warsaw Treaty in August 1968 was an act of invasion and subsequent occupation and was contrary to international law." We believe that the Chamber of Deputies must speak with clarity and make it clear that for Czechoslovakia - then Czechoslovakia - it was an invasion and occupation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. Now, Chairman Kováčik. Then President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam and gentlemen, my dear government, my colleagues, have a good day. We have two things I want to tell you on the agenda. As far as Mr Bartošek's proposal for a new point is concerned, it is nothing new under the sun. I refer to the resolution of the KSČ High School Convention, the 14th extraordinary. It contains, it's almost the same, so it reaches quite a lot of open doors. I do not know why he talks about the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia in this connection. But maybe that's just ignorance. The other thing. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, its Members and Members are ready to support this bill, which once again regulates the issue of the salaries of constitutional officials. It will do so when it is certain that it will be measured to all who are paid under this law as well. If the coefficient is to be 1,5 or 2,5 or 1, or no matter what, it must be maintained both for Members, Senators, Judges and all others. At the moment that this is not the case, I just point out that we are moving away from the constitutional principle of division of power and equality between individual forces of power rather than to. At this point, I declare that if it is certain that the law will be discussed in such a form, then the KSČM MP not only has no problems, but as one man and one woman will finally support the wording of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. Vice-President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the proposal for a bill on the salaries of constitutional officials at this meeting. Well, it brings us a smile in the SPD. Pirates propose an increase in the salaries of politicians, YES proposes an increase in the salaries of politicians. Well, of course you're suggesting an increase in the salaries of politicians. Of course, it's smaller than this original valorization. You're suggesting an increase in the salaries of politicians. You propose to include a law on the agenda that increases the salaries of constitutional officials. And we disagree with that in the SPD. I'll remind you that four years ago, we proposed freezing the salaries of politicians. This is where the entire House voted. We have proposed an amendment to this Act on the salaries of constitutional officials, where we have proposed freezing the salaries of politicians until 2018. The only people who voted for freezing were us back then. já, Jaroslav Holík and Radim Fiala. All the other parties, and it was the movement YES, CSSD, KDU-ČSL, ODS, TOP 09 - yes, the Pirates were not here at the time - so they voted against freezing the salaries of politicians. It's also in the files in the House. Look under my name for draft laws amending to www.psp.cz. So our proposal here has already been voted on, and we in the SPD want to freeze the salaries of politicians. But since there is a majority here... you, the other parties here, which, even during this parliamentary term, you have actually largely rejected this proposal of ours, that is why we have not come up with this proposal now, because that would be really populism. But he's been here before. He's already been voted on. You all voted to raise politicians. [[salaries]] Now even the pirát are proposing an increase in the salaries of politicians under the current law. Why don't you fellow pirát propose a freeze on politicians' salaries and join our program proposals? Then suggest freezing, like the SPD suggested. But that has already been voted on, our proposal. It's not your proposal anymore. It wouldn't be new. So I would like to remind you that we are talking here about two proposals to raise the salaries of politicians, constitutional agents. And the pirát are playing some kind of soup like they don't want to raise salaries. I don't know if we can count here if we can't do math. You probably haven't read the law or the press haven't read it. But, folks, there are two proposals to raise the salaries of politicians. We don't agree as an SPD with either of them. And we have already demonstrated this specifically by our draft law, which has been voted on here. So if anyone here wants to stop being a populist, like the pirát, then please suggest our proposal. Join our proposal. We have it written down. After all, it's also written on the House's website. The changeling proposal is done there. We can only take it, it's under the same law, and we can present it here immediately. We can vote on him right away at second reading. And let's join the SPD proposal to freeze politicians' salaries by the end of this parliamentary term, for example. So I'd like to put that right, so it doesn't look like the pirát are against wage increases. It's just the opposite, their proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Mr Jiří Kohoutek asked for an apology from today's meeting for the whole day due to illness and Mr Vít Kaňkovský for the whole day for family reasons. Now the priority right, Mr. Chairman Michálek. I'm sorry, Mr. Miroslav Kalousek's apology for medical reasons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must marvel at this grotesque speech. I have never seen such a grotesque performance, Mr Okamura, who is just leaving the hall, through Mr President. Such a bunch of nonsense and lies that are supposed to manipulate the audience and present the reality in the very opposite way is really striking. We have to fight this fake news like it spreads the SPD. And it spreads them everywhere. Even in this case, reality is completely different. When we were sitting at the club presidents' meeting, we said that we would support this government proposal, even though there was a certain, say, reserved position by the ANO movement, and Mr Okamura said there was support for our proposal, the Pirát, that they also wanted to join the government, to avoid a planned increase in the salaries of politicians. So, of course, we are not proposing any increase in the salaries of politicians. We are proposing one thing, and that is that the government proposal will stop the planned growth by another 10 percent, which is planned there. And if this is not approved here at first reading at the Chamber of Deputies, it will not be approved during the parliamentary term, and the law will not come into effect. And the SPD knows this very well. So the moment they say they're backing out and they're not going to vote for it, I think they're completely denying the foundation of their program. I had to go against it because I really can't stand it. I understand people have different opinions and present their different views, but I'm not sure I'm gonna put up with it so that it's gonna lie like it's in the SPD election campaign.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. President Kováčik, then President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u18	Hello again, ma'am and gentlemen. Now we see what all of this might be for. Personally, I am convinced that since we are gathered here at this hot time, we are primarily to deal with what motivated our meeting today. We have two proposals, one that has left the House towards the Senate and which, in some way, behaves to raise, valorize, or, if you want some movement in the pension security of our seniors, the other, which, after discussing in the Senate, seems somewhat different, at first sight perhaps better, perhaps more impervious and so forth, let's deal with this. That's why we're here! Not to extend the program from Šumava to Tatras, and that is to say, care for how the needs of our seniors will be financed in the coming years, it remains on the second track again. Let us believe that this will not be the case. Let's believe that after we may have rested a little, we'll take the courage to pick up and discuss why we're here. That's what I'm calling for, and that's what I'm asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. Allow me to make an apology to Mr Schwarzenberg, who apologizes for today's health negotiations. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u20	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to Mr Michálek through the President. Mr Okamura here said that we tabled an amendment in the last parliamentary term to freeze politicians' salaries, that is true. I voted in favour of the amendment. Furthermore, Mr Okamura said that this proposal, which now goes to the Chamber of Deputies, increases the salaries of politicians. Not as much as they were supposed to increase, but they're still increasing. That's right. That means that what Mr. Michálek here says is that someone is lying, I cannot take seriously at all, and I am convinced that this is another ongoing campaign of the Pirates against the SPD. Otherwise, I just can't explain it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u21	President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u22	Thank you. Your way to President Kováčik. We meet at a proper meeting, which means whoever has the right to submit a motion for a new point or a new point. Now no one is acting contrary to the Rules of Procedure. I understand that the meeting has been convened primarily to resolve pensions. The People's Party has declared that we want pensions to rise, and we will vote in favour. But at the same time, we respect the Rules of Procedure. After all, everyone has the opportunity to propose a supplement to the program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is interested? President Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u24	I would just like to respond briefly to Mr Kováčik through Mr President. Of course, I put that point as the second point after discussing the very pensions. So we're saying that we're trying to set up a meeting where there's no time for what we're meeting primarily for today, it's just not true. I proposed to include this press after we discussed the press that brought us together today. So if we're going to stretch something out, it's going to be that things that aren't in context aren't true here. We're stalling. My proposal was merely: let us place this item at the meeting as a second item. We can vote on this practically without question. And if anybody needs to make a campaign out of it, as I've heard here, I don't think that's the thing we need. We expressed our support for the government's proposal at the beginning. A colleague here, Mr. Faltýnek, has also said that they will want to discuss this. So let's vote on putting a point on the agenda, and we can say all these things tomorrow if it's not enough to discuss it today. I don't have the slightest problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. Chairman Kováčik with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u26	Thank you. It's just a clarification. I didn't say anything about something falling into line because I said we were stalling before we started discussing the main thing. As far as the campaign is concerned, of course, we all see and citizens also see through cameras that the campaign is already running. Therefore, even this point today and not just this point, essentially all that are proposed in addition to pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-08-22-ps2017-018-01-000-000.u27	Thank you. And again, I'm asking if anyone else is interested in speaking on the agenda. If this is not the case, we will vote on individual proposals. Exceptionally, we do not have any proposal from the Gremium, so we will be the first to vote on President Bartoš's proposal to include the House press 167 after House press 120, which means the second point of this meeting. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? [[The vote is not working.]] I'm sorry. Now. Who's in? Who's against it? A total of 168 Members are enrolled, for 111, against no one. This proposal was adopted. So we've placed a new point. Furthermore, there is a proposal from Vice-President Okamura to include a point on the discussion of the parameters of pension reform, as he presented it. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Who's against it? Voting order number 3. Registered 171, for 50, against 19. This proposal was not adopted. There was therefore no inclusion of a new point. [[10.30 hours]] Finally, there is President Bartošek's proposal, the inclusion of a new point, the honor of the victims of the invasion on August 21, 1968, if I may say so. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 4, logged in 173, for 165, against no one. This proposal was adopted. The President did not suggest a classification of that point, but logically it is item number 3 of this meeting. We will now vote on the whole proposal for programme 18. Meetings, as submitted in writing and as further proposals were adopted. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 5, 173 Members signed in, for 168, versus 1. The motion was accepted. So I'm saying that the agenda of the meeting has been approved. Before we proceed to discuss the bill returned to the Senate, I propose, at the request of the President of the Senate, to allow Senators Miloš Vystrčil and Jiří Vosecký to appear in the Chamber of Deputies. Information on the Senate amendment has been distributed to you in your mail. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who agrees with the senator's speech. Who's against it? This is the vote number 6, 173 Members signed up, for 158, against no one, the proposal has been approved. I will therefore ask the senators who I welcome to sit at the rapporteur's table. Opening point
