ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u1	29. Draft by Members Dominik Feri, Miroslav Kalousek, Helena Langšádlová, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Karel Schwarzenberg, František Vácha and Vlastimil Válek on the issue of the Act amending Act No. 283/1993 Coll., on the Public Prosecutor's Office, as amended, and Act No. 7/2002 Sb., on proceedings in cases of judges, prosecutors and judicial executors, as amended /German press 110/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 110/1. I already see Mr Dominik Feri's representatives at the rapporteur's table, and I will ask that Mr Pavel Blažek take the position at the rapporteur's table, which is, of course, not present. I see the chairman of the Constitutional Law Committee is ready. Before I ask the House for peace of mind, because we must approve the amendment of the rapporteur at first reading, I propose to the Chamber of Deputies, on a proposal from the President of the Constitutional Legal Committee, that Mr Marek Benda be the rapporteur for first reading. We will decide in the vote number 84, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of changing the rapporteur for this press. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 84 of 139 present for 110, against no one. The rapporteur is, therefore, Mr Marek Benda, Mr Pavel Blažek's seat. I'll ask him to take the floor at the news desk. I will also ask the House for peace and Mr Dominik Feri to present his opening report. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, the honourable public, the law that we are presenting is intended to strengthen the independence of the prosecutors, whose re-competitiveness was discussed a few months ago by the Minister of Justice. That is also why we are presenting this amendment, which should ensure the independence of the leading prosecutors, to set up a plan to fill these positions in accordance with the law on courts and judges. The main thesis of the law is the introduction of a time-limited exercise of the office of head of state's attorney and the inability to repeat the duties of two terms of office with the same state prosecutor. In the case of the Supreme Attorney, the possibility of repeating the function is completely excluded. From this change, we are promising that senior prosecutors will be more independent and will also reduce the risk of having to apply for political favor for their renaming at the end of their term of office - at the end, of course, in this legislation during that exercise. The term of office shall be seven years for the Head of State's Attorney and ten years for the Supreme Attorney. The purpose is to separate the term of office from the electoral cycle and at the same time provide sufficient space for the prosecutors to work conceptually and methodically on their public prosecutors. After all, we are also dealing with this in a transitional provision so that all leading prosecutors cannot rename one specific government within a single term of office. The possibility of state prosecutors to apply for leadership after the end of their time in office either at another prosecutor's office or at their original, but after a certain period of time, guarantees that we will not lose capable people. [[17.50 hours]] With great power comes great responsibility, so our proposal tightens the demands that are placed on the person applying for the position of Supreme Prosecutor. Our proposal works with the option that the applicant for the position of Supreme Attorney must have adequate moral integrity and ten years of legal practice, but it does not have to be limited to prosecutorial experience, because in this position the experience of law enforcement or the judiciary will certainly apply. However, only one who is already a prosecutor may be appointed as the Attorney General. This shall apply mutatis mutandis to other senior prosecutors. [[Noise in the hall.]] Another change is the strengthening of the position of senior prosecutors by establishing a list of situations where they can be removed from office. These cases shall be made subject to the decision of the Board of Appeal to breach of their duties. This step will prevent the assessment of the same cases by double standards, because the practice of the disciplinary chambers can be better unified. At the same time, there is an independent -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u3	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for some peace. I ask that you conduct discussions outside the issue of the prosecutor's office in the foyer and let the plaintiff's representatives speak his opening words in peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u4	Thank you for calling to order, Mr President. These cases shall be made subject to the decision of the Board of Appeal to breach of their duties. This is a step ahead of assessment - sorry, I've already come back. As is clear from the above, in our proposal we also abandon the option of dismissing the Supreme Prosecutor by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the repeatedly expert community is talking about the error of the Constitutional Deputy to put the State Attorney's office in the Constitution into the power of executives. Our proposal is the next step towards independent prosecution of the state's attorney's office. I would therefore like to ask you to support this proposal and I am here to clarify any confusion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u5	I thank the draftsman's representative for his opening words. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Marek Benda to present the news report. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u6	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, Mr appellant, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be quite brief. I will only say that the government has sent us its position in which it expressed its opposition for three reasons. In the first, he said yes, it would be right for this regulation to exist, even the government had it in its draft in the previous parliamentary term, but there are only some parts of the state's independence adjustment being pulled out here without the other parts being resolved. In the second part, it says: the transitional periods that have been elected - four and ten years - are not entirely logical and do not fully correspond to the way they have been elected in the past in the courts and judges, and it also points to the problem of the fact that in some small prosecutors such bans would mean that in a short period of time they will all be replaced and no one will be appointed as head of office. That's the news report. I think you've been asked by the petitioner. I am communicating the Government's position and then signing up for myself in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before I speak at the opening of the debate to the first Mr Strýček, allow me to make an apology - Mr Lukáš Kolářík from 17.30 to 19.00 for work reasons and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš from 17.50 until the end of the day of the sitting. I am now opening the debate and asking Mr Jiří Strýček to take the floor in the debate. A colleague named Marek Benda is registered. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, strengthening the independence of prosecutors is, of course, a commendable objective, but I fear that this proposal, as it has been tabled, is suffering from a number of defects. What bothers me most about this is that he doesn't deal with the state's attorney's bill complexly. Furthermore, it did not take place here over the proposed adjustment of serious professional discussion, and the proposal is therefore to some extent inconsistent, unsubstantiated by an analysis of the current state and potential impacts. The draft law draws on a substantial amount, or is inspired by the Government's draft law on the state prosecutor's office submitted in the previous parliamentary term, but only one part has been removed from it concerning the establishment and termination of the position of senior prosecutors without systematically addressing the related issues. Furthermore, the applicants did not address any related questions concerning the selection of suitable persons for the performance of the duties of senior prosecutors, disciplinary proceedings or the issue of the regular evaluation of prosecutors and the rules of their career process. A number of amendments contained in the draft law submitted are inadequately justified. This concerns, in particular, the inclusion of the Ombudsman among the disciplinary appellants. However, what must be pointed out at the end is that the proposal will also affect the district prosecutors in practice, especially the leaders of prosecutors. These are in many cases staffed weakly and it is not clear whether it would be possible in practice to comply with all the conditions for the function of district attorney, namely the required length of practice and not repeating the performance of the function. For these reasons, I propose rejecting this bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u9	I thank Mr Jiří Strýček for his speech. And now, Mr Marek Benda, in the debate. I don't have another written application. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And the Minister is reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u10	Mr Vice-President, rapporteur, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will also be fairly brief. I'm going to lean on the motion to dismiss. If it is not accepted, I suggest that the applicant be returned to work. I'd say there's a lot of reasons. Maybe just the first thing I've done before. The appellant concluded his speech: the error of the legislature - the introduction of Article 80 into the Constitution into the power of executive, not the power of judicial. Please, that's not the legislator's fault. I was the legislator at the time. I approved the Constitution. And we put it there on purpose, and we wanted the state's attorney to be part of the executive power. The fact that the prosecutors do not like it today and that they would like to move somewhere else, to the power of the court, that is, of course, possible, of course, is completely legitimate to discuss it, but I just refuse to accept that this is some sort of legislative error. It wasn't the legislator's fault. This was an entirely intentional act where we were convinced that the public action was in line with the executive power and that the one who is independent was a court. That's the first thing. Second thing. I think that the current construction of the prosecutor's office, when most of the lower members correspond only in a disciplinary manner, as derived from the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court for disciplinary error, but the head of the prosecutor's office, which is in fact a person who does not sue, but only has supervision, corresponds to the government, is correct that we would have to have very good reasons to change it, and it would have to be very clearly defined how the entire prosecutor's office works. I consider this attempt to break only those naming powers to be very wrong and unfortunate. And the last point that I think maybe is the most important one. Ten years ago, 2008, here, on this House's land, on the Constitutional Committee, because the government did not have the courage to submit the bill at the time, virtually. only submitted technical amendments, made a fixed term for the Presidents of the Courts of the 10th and 7th years for the lower ones. And we have deliberately broken it down into individual years, and we have carefully done that in every year only one-seventh of the judges have been renamed so that there is no minister who suddenly changes the entire judicial system, as well as the system of the prosecutor's office. I think that this division for just two periods, which would mean that at one point the Minister of Justice - and now it doesn't really matter who sits there, please nicely, in this regard I'm terribly careful about personalization, I like it, or I don't like it, we just have to systemally work so that when these changes happen and even if they are based on so-called. tenders and all possible, so that there is simply no person in a country that suddenly exchanges half or two thirds of the leading prosecutors. I just consider this a big mistake and a big problem with this bill. So if the motion to dismiss is not supported, I suggest that we return it to the plaintiff for work, at least, with it being spread over time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u11	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm writing back as a conditional motion. So we're going to vote rejection first, then we're going to vote back because that's how it was submitted. Mr. Attorney General Robert Pelikán has the floor now. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this does not happen to me very often, but I must agree with my dear fellow Member Benda in basically everything he has said here. I also join the motion to reject this law at first reading, because I really consider it a very unfortunate attempt to extract one small thing from the entire complex of the modification, which may seem pleasing, but actually without the context in which it was originally found, it can also be inappropriate, counterproductive. And the best thing that can happen to her is she'll be useless. After all, the recommendation of GRECO on this matter, which does not respond to this proposal, is similar or similar because it highlights something completely different from a fixed term of office. This stresses the need for state prosecutors to be selected in transparent tenders. And that is completely lacking in the proposal. And it doesn't miss it there by accident, because for me to be able to choose someone in a real transparent tender, and we have some experience with it in justice, I need to have some background on the basis of which the selection procedure will take place, and that is a regular evaluation of individual prosecutors. So it's three very closely linked things. If I want a fixed term, I need a selection procedure. If I want selection procedures, I need regular evaluations. In order to have regular evaluations, I need a definition of what those prosecutors will be evaluated in. And by that I have already described a significant part of the comprehensive proposal that has been tabled here in the last parliamentary term. And I am overlooking the fact that, of course, if I make such a change and strengthen the position of state's leaders, which, of course, it means, I also need to better establish relationships in the system so that such a position cannot be abused by someone. And also outside the system, between the system and the rest of state and public power. The last thing I say about this and what may convince even the unconvinced have taken a clearly negative view of this proposal, as well as the prosecutor's mouth or the pen of the Supreme Attorney. I therefore recommend that this proposal be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u13	I thank the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Now, Mrs Helena Válková in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u14	I'll see if I can use those two minutes. Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am very happy to agree with almost every word that has been said here from the Minister's mouth. And I just wanted to confirm for those who would still hesitate that this does not really mean that the reform of the prosecutor's office is not on the agenda of the day, and I believe that we will successfully complete it during this parliamentary term. This would be more of a signal that we don't believe it, and that's why we're putting out the fire, and we're putting out the not-so-perfect way that was said here. I think that even the person who watched the events that resulted in that meeting of prosecutors knows that the prosecutor's office is not satisfied with the current situation and will pressure itself to - perhaps including the amendment to the Constitution - implement the reform during this parliamentary term. But not this way. So I'm not surprised by their negative attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u15	Thank you, Madame Válková. I don't have another application. Yes, I see Mr. Výborný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u16	Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I would actually like to join the KDU-ČSL Club for what has been said here, either by the Minister or also by Mrs Válková. We consider the Institute of Public Prosecutors in our system of justice to be so important that we believe that they do not deserve these ad hoc proposals that are not fully fully developed. That's why we won't support him, virtually. We'll join the motion to dismiss. And I believe that the years discussed by the reform of the prosecutor's office, as Minister Pelikán has also spoken, will soon come to light here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and we will not have to discuss these ad hoc matters out of context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u17	Thank you, Mr Excellent. I'm asking if there's anyone else for the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking the plaintiff's representative for the final word. Mr Dominik Feri with the final word, please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There have been proposals for rejection, I respect them. I thank all my colleagues for a lively discussion. And as with civil proceedings, I hope that in this, too, the successor of this Minister of Justice will be equally active and we will bring about reform of the prosecutor's office. I believe the debate with the House will be very lively. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-003-029.u19	Thank you. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. We will therefore look at the proposals that have been made in the debate. Motion to dismiss. If it does not pass, a conditional application for repayment of the proposal submitted for completion. We will decide on the motion to reject the 85 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 85, 146 for 99 against 5. The motion was accepted. I note that we rejected this proposal in the first reading. I thank the representatives of the appellants, thank the rapporteur, and I conclude with point 29. Let's continue with point number
