ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u1	177. Position of Czech Government and Ministry of Industry and Trade for forced sale ARCELORMITTAL a.s. Ostrava I ask that the Minister of Industry and Trade Marta Nováková take the floor. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a good morning. On a proposal from Mr Luzar, the House asked me for up-to-date information on the forced sale of ArcelorMittal Ostrava. I am pleased to be able to use this opportunity to inform you about what the Government and the Ministry of Industry and Trade are doing and what they can do. For starters, I want it to be said that neither I nor the entire government is indifferent to the situation of selling Ostrava's smelters, and although the government has very limited competence in this regard, it is very closely monitoring the process, but also actively dealing with all parties, from owners to trade unions to the European Commission. The crucial thing is that the privatisation of Ostrava's New Huti took place 16 years ago, in 2002, when the Czech State ended the ongoing restructuring and sold its majority share of 67.25 percent of LNM Holdings shares. In 2007 the ArcelorMittal holding was established and the Ostrava smelters became ArcelorMittal Ostrava. Since 2007. Currently, the company exports its products to more than 40 countries worldwide and its annual steel production reaches 2.4 million. tonnes, with production capacity filled to 67 per cent of the total potential capacity. It is important to note that the company's sales have been falling continuously since 2012, up to 1.4 billion. $26.9 billion. CZK last year. ArcelorMittal accounts for around 2 percent of the group's sales over the long term. Whole groups - I mean whole European groups. ArcelorMittal's largest proportion of production in the clays then consists of long and flat rolled products. The whole group ArcelorMittal then produces approximately 30 miles. tonnes of flat products per year, which is about one third of the total European steel consumption. It is worth recalling that the current total production capacity of ArcelorMittal, if fully filled, constitutes up to 40% of the annual European consumption. It is good to know that Germany and Italy are the largest markets for rolling steel in Europe. The Italian steelworks Ilva Group is not only one of the largest steelworks, but produces about 6 million per year. tons of steel. The reason for the forced sale is given by the interest of the company or group ArcelorMittal on the acquisition of the Italian steelworks Ilva Group. Thus, for ArcelorMittal Group, the Italian acquisition of all its existing rocks would mean a profit of more than half the share of steel production in Europe. The European Commission therefore made it conditional on the potential Italian acquisition of the reduction of existing European production capacities of the entire ArcelorMittal Group, so that this would not constitute a threat to competition and competitiveness within the EU. The Commission therefore established the conditions under which Arcelor would be able to purchase the Italian Ilva Hut. A separate property manager, which became the current CEO of Ashok Patil, has been designated as a controller who, with the consent of the European Commission, is the transnational audit and advisory group Grant Thornton. The role of this controller, which is directly responsible to the Commission, is to supervise the management of the sale of the company until its sale is completed. On the basis of the European Commission's decision, ArcelorMittal must therefore reduce its production capacity so as not to jeopardise competition within the EU. Mittal offered to sell six of his guns. In Romania, in the Italian Piombino, in Macedonia, in Luxembourg, in Lutych and also in the Ostrava Hut. In total, this is an offer to sell 13,5% of ArcelorMittal's production capacity in Europe. According to our information, the original offer for the sale was the lower offered by ArcelorMittal, which was rejected by the European Commission. Only when the ArcelorMittal Group increased this share to 13,5% was it acceptable for the European Commission. All the companies I've named together, the six have almost identical annual productions like the Italian company Ilva, which Arcelor wants to buy. As regards the sale of Ostrava smelters, which was announced in the spring of this year, it is worth recalling that the sale of Ostrava smelters has become an important political topic and an important media issue. And it is understandable because it is a very important and important employer in the region. The entire sales process is subject to approval by the European Commission, which is the only one entitled to control compliance with the obligations arising from its decision. It is only the European Commission that is assessing and who can actively enter the sales process. It does so from the point of view of preserving European competition and eliminating the monopolization of industrial sectors within the EU from our national position, because this is important to us. We are dealing with the European Commission on an almost daily basis. However, information relating to its own business, including individual conditions, is subject to exclusive business secrecy and the European Commission has not made it available to us. In history, almost 3 billion went into Ostrava's hut. CZK to remove environmental burdens and other billions of sums for cleaning technologies to improve the environment. And most importantly, nearly 7,000 employees work there. You have certainly noticed that the government has dealt with the situation in the person of Prime Minister Babiš as well as the Minister of Industry and Trade of former Tomáš Hüner and myself from the very beginning. A working group was established on the platform of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and a number of meetings took place, both with the management of ArcelorMittal Ostrava and with the management of ArcelorMittal in London, including with the participation of trade unions, and of course a number of meetings with trade unions. [[11.10 hours]] Since I joined the Ministry, I have dealt with everyone involved several times, and I have been in Ostrava. On a weekly basis, I send my deputy to Brussels, who communicates with the European Commission and consults the process itself. However, I must emphasise repeatedly that the Commission understands our positions, understands that we are the Czech Government and our clear interest is the prosperity of the Czech economy and Czech companies. Among other things, I have also met potential buyers of Ostrava's smelters. First it was British Steel and then it was Liberty House, which was with me last week. On Friday, 12 October, ArcelorMittal, owner of Ostrava Hut, announced that it had received a binding offer from Liberty House for the acquisition of ArcelorMittal in Ostrava, Romania, Macedonia and Italy. That means ArcelorMittal sells four companies in a particular package. These four assets are part of the so-called compensatory package of sales that ArcelorMittal had to submit to the European Commission in its investigation into the acquisition of Ilva. This offer is currently the only offer that ArcelorMittal is currently negotiating with. I've met with company representatives, as I said before. They assured me that they would respect all the requirements of the European Commission. For the Czech Government, I stressed that we have an eminent interest in maintaining production, maintaining employment and other investments in both production and ecology. We have absolutely not resigned to our role, and we strongly indicate to the European Commission that it is essential for the government of the Czech Republic that the new owner should comply with the requirements for maintaining production and employment precisely according to the European Commission's decision of May this year. Businesses of this type are very sensitive things not only for employees and trade unionists, but also for management, which should mainly bear in mind the maintenance of their customers for production, which is crucial for the future of society. The European Commission now has five weeks to assess and approve this transaction if necessary. I will continue to repeat to the European Commission that it must insist on strict compliance with the conditions laid down. For me personally, it would be most sad if the result of all the protests and the questioning of the sales process would be a gradual decline in production and the loss of customers in the former New Huta. Our common interest, i.e. governments, employees and the entire region, must be that the sale of Ostrava smelters does not have a negative impact on the region. Ostrava has long-term support from the government of the Czech Republic. After all, there is a government agent, Senator Cienciala, who, of course, is very active in the process, and we are almost in contact with him daily. Personally, as Minister of Industry and Trade, I will do my utmost to maintain production and employment in the New Huta, not just because I have a personal relationship with the region. I lived there for years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Luzar was the proposer of this point, so I ask him if he wants to speak. I presume you won't object to becoming a rapporteur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u4	Mr President, Madam Secretary, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if we had not lived in the European Union, ArcelorMittal would probably have closed the New Hut, bought some other hut in another state and would not have cared about what would happen next. It is a classic business model of a company that wants as much profits as possible, the largest position on the market and wants to dominate the production of the product it produces, that is, steel. By being in the European Union - and this is one of the advantages of the European Union, which is little talked about - the advantage is that the European Union is watching over its dominant position on the market. The European Union sets out the conditions under which a dominant producer in the market can operate, under which conditions it can acquire its shares by acquiring undertakings on the market and is able to legally regulate such business. This is exactly the state we're facing. ArcelorMittal is an important producer of steel and iron, rolled material, simply metals, and it is strategic because at the same time there are more producers in Europe. We've heard the business shares that are here. It is all the more strategic that we are watching the trade war that America is waging on the market for these commodities, and we are all worried about what will happen to European producers of these commodities, and how far this trade war, which is so far heating up between America and China, is going to hit. ArcelorMittal was forced by the European Commission to sell its troops or its acquisitions in Central and Eastern Europe if it wants to buy Italian acquisitions. For the sake of interest, we are talking according to the Czech Statistical Office that in the Czech Republic it is an import of steel of 7.2 million. the tonnes of steel that the Czech Republic needs and imports, and this is a comparison with the 30 million mentioned by the Minister. But these are also six and a half thousand qualified jobs, the people who work in this enterprise. Of course, there's another group that's attached to this place. Here we are talking about about 70,000 people who indirectly or directly cooperate with this enterprise and work and ensure employment in this region. This is already a force that should force us, politicians, to look for measures and prevent things that could result in the loss of these jobs. Are we really counting on the ArcelorMittal group to choose the best buyer? Your future competitor on the market? And do we rely on the European Commission to know all the problems and suspicions we may have in connection with this purchase? I'm afraid that's not the case. I fear that ArcelorMittal is looking for a way to satisfy the Commission, in other words, to feed the wolf, but the goat remains whole, that is, so that competition does not grow here, which could later threaten it on the market or cause financial losses. If you look at the annual report of ArcelorMittal, you will find that between 2012 and 2017, the depreciations reached 5.5 billion. CZK, investments over the same period only slightly exceeded 4.4 billion, in other words it also paid off to the foreign owner 49.63 billion. CZK on dividends. Very lucrative. The minimum investment, i.e. a constantly underinvested enterprise, is not evolving, yet it is taking away its mother's large billions, its owner. Do you really think Mittal wants a pre-selected buyer, as has already been mentioned here, Liberty House, to invest, to develop and build new competition for Mittal Steel, as the European Commission demands it should be? [[11.20 hours]] The union guys are worried. It's logical, they're employed there, and they're worried about losing their jobs. That's why they're responding and waiting for an answer. So they invited or had the opportunity to meet with the CEO of the Liberty Steel Jon Bolton division, which should operate the metal. They asked him what investment in society would look like, how he wanted to ensure the development of the company according to the requirements of the European Commission. What they have learned is not at all impressed by optimism, rather driven anger into their faces, because the owner told them - I quote - that the company wants to operate on existing equipment as a low-cost commodity supplier without the right to invest. When I translate it into human speech, milk it, milk it, milk it when the cow dies. Even the original owner of Mittal Steel had plans and ideas that he would at least bring a secondhand wire line from Spain and develop something new and look for new ways to sell. With this new owner, I'm afraid it's really just about milking. Can such an investor really come to the Czech Republic and we keep quiet, we'll be calm? The second question that I can think of in this context is, if Mittal Steel Arcelor really wants to create no competition and be able to circumvent the European Commission's regulation, how will he do that? Then when you look at the factory, you find that almost in the middle of the factory is called. Energy. It is a producer not only of electricity, but also of other products that are essential for the metallurgical production produced by the company. And so you watch what's happening, and you find that quietly, without the board's knowledge and supervisory board, without their consent, this company was led out of Ostrava's New Huti and became the mother's property. When it came out, they said: nothing's going on, we're doing it just so we can sell the energy to the new acquirer. But if you look at what it takes, it means that the new acquirer will have to agree, first, with the purchase price separately, not with the hut, it will have to buy it later, it will have to have the means. There are speculations that Mittal will even lend him money to buy it. He'll be in debt, but he won't be able to invest. Even if he's planning them. And just so you know what volumes we're talking about, it's 3.2 billion that are billed for energy. Mother's business internally with this energy part of it. If it comes out, it means 3.2 billion. for energy for an enterprise that couldn't have imagined production without this energy. They're also said to be adequate replacements. On the free market, they can buy. Then she had the study of PricewaterhouseCoopers processed, it is in the free resources in the Collection of Charters that this is not possible. That the business is so tied up, constructed with Energy, which is in the middle, that it simply cannot be found in free energy markets to replace it. So if this scenario comes up, the mother-in-law New Hut will have a collar around its neck, a collar made of electric wires that someone else can strangle or allow, depending on how it needs to affect the European market. Is that okay? If we are to ensure a long-term perspective and development according to the European Commission's requirements? I do not think so, and it must also be pointed out in the European Commission that these steps are taking place and that this is against the European Union's intention to declare that it wants to preserve the New Music, that it wants to maintain employment, even develop. It is one of the conditions to agree to a new acquisition for the ArcelorMittal Group. As I have already mentioned, there is talk of purchases, financing. Let's see what that company is that might be interested in buying, that Liberty House. It's a new shark. It comes from India, as well as Mittal Steel Arcelor's parent company. And the acquisition of Europe begins. But it is already leaking information from open sources, I can quote the Financial Times, the Economic Times, that this company has a huge problem getting banks on its side to get the funds already for the acquisitions it has made in Europe. 160 billion. dollars in France. Banks are turning away. It says here that they fired a Swiss manager at a bank that brokered a loan to Liberty House for the risk of this loan. They have a problem with the repayment of acquisitions that they have already made. They were eliminated from the purchase contest of the port they were interested in because they did not have secured funding. Yet large transactions and acquisitions are under way throughout Europe. This should warn us that there is something wrong with the history of the future acquirer. If you look into even more detail, you'll find that the person who represents this company with its owner is a long-time worker and associate of ArcelorMittal Steel. So the connection of at least personnel here is quite clear and clear. I ask: Is this a serious partner that the European Commission should believe will be the shark and the competition against the existing ArcelorMittal Steel Group and ensure the prosperity of the future separate new business? Next question. The European Commission, by extension, places great emphasis on emissions pollution. That's why he invented the principle of emission allowances. We have been talking about emission allowances for a long time in other cases, and we know that the government has provided Ostrava Huti free of charge with these allowances so that they can invest in low-carbon technologies, low-polluting technologies that Ostrava needs. It is one of the regions with the highest air pollution, and unfortunately, this metallurgical business has historically been very much involved. As we all know, these allowances are allocated to a specific enterprise on their ICO based on production. So these allowances, which the Ostrava Huti government has allocated for free, are now to come out of this hut and benefit from it by the ArcelorMittal Group. Of course, a new acquirer would buy them from this group. Question for what? How does he intend to finance these matters when he himself says he only wants them by 2020? Meaning, doesn't he have to buy extra allowances? He doesn't have any money over 2020? Or is he planning to keep the production until 2020 and then he won't need it anymore? Does the European Commission even know that carousel trade in allowances is being carried out here within the existing parent undertaking? That these allowances turn over my mother like this, that she'll fit back in, and the finances stay with my mother? And we're not just talking about financials, but we're talking about 6.2 billion. CZK for these allowances. Shouldn't this also warn us and insist that we want those allowances to stay in Ostrava and not be traded with within the mother? Do we really think that the manager of separate property acts in the best interest of the Czech Republic? Do we really think that the existing owner wants to have competition built on the market and succumbs to the EU's wish for this competitor to grow here? [[11.30 hours]] I don't think so. I think the current owner is doing everything he can to make money off of it. And he doesn't give a damn about how it's gonna work here in this republic, a hut that he's forced to get rid of. Again, I stress - forced to. And that does not force the Czech government, it forces him to do so by the European Commission, because it has a great deal of taste, this new acquirer, about Italian music. And it is our duty - absent Prime Minister, but thank you for the presence of the Minister - to present questions to the European Commission, to present arguments, to present evidence and perhaps to shout that the European Commission simply cannot ignore the legitimate questions and answers that we demand for what is currently happening in ArcelorMittal's private enterprise. Yes, it's a private business. Nevertheless, the European Commission has the opportunity to force it to maintain production, to grow production, to invest in an undertaking that it forces it to sell. It's not true he's the only one interested. In total, there were three interested parties. I have information that other interested parties hold their interest in joining this group. Among other things, British Steel made that statement. So it is really up to us, what arguments our government will put forward to the European Commission. And I hope she hasn't agreed to this acquisition by chance. I wouldn't like that very much. Because it was the questions raised on Friday, as well as in previous negotiations between trade unionists and future buyers, that caused this wave, which is why I am standing here today at this microphone and for which you have to listen to my concerns. My concerns about the fate of ArcelorMittal, but mainly about six and a half thousand direct employees and 70,000 people who are directly dependent on the functioning of this one of the largest steel companies in the Czech Republic. I would be very pleased to conclude this meeting by bringing both the Minister and the Prime Minister to the attention of the European Commission on these documents, on this information about the potential acquirer and on the possible problems that this may cause, on possible tricks to get out of this. It's all about information. Therefore, I will not propose any resolution which would impose and order and deadline. No, I think the important thing was said here. It is about information so that the European Commission has all the information to clearly know the position of the Czech Government, how we look at it, where we see the risks to the future functioning of this metallurgical plant, and how we want to maintain the possibility of investing, protecting the environment and social reconciliation in this locality. I'm a little sorry, and the Secretary of State mentioned that former Minister Hüner had prepared or founded a group of experts to monitor this and concentrate on this information, information and be the partner between trade unionists, owners, government. Unfortunately, this group has been dissolved. I do not know what led the new Minister to disband this expert group and where its ministry is now receiving further information. At least I'd be happy to hear this. And how she would like to obtain this information differently from experts who would meet, who would act and deal with all the current things that come to the table. Dear Prime Minister, Madam Minister of Industry and Trade, I would be very pleased if the European Commission decides not in the interests of Europe, but in the interests of employees in the Czech Republic, in the interests of our citizens, and I firmly believe that you and the Prime Minister will guarantee that this will happen. This is a warning of all the problems that may occur. It is not something that can not yet be dealt with, which can not be put into public space and inform the European Commission about it. And I am not entirely convinced that the European Commission is watching Czech media. I don't think so. I firmly believe that your ministry, your workers, will personally appeal to the European Commission to beware of how the owner of ArcelorMittal is proceeding in order to sell his metallurgical parts, how they will be financed. If the one who should acquire it has enough money and is financially strong and able to deal with it. If it really isn't just a trick. And unfortunately, and maybe, thank God, I have the experience and the opportunity to be on the OKD investigation committee. And in many procedures at lower levels of responsibility, I see a lot of similar signs of inactivity, a certain disregard and a certain laxity, which unfortunately led to many billions of people's losses and disillusionment in the case of OKD. I would very much like this particular case not to increase Euroscepticism in the Czech Republic. That is why I started this conversation by helping us by being able to influence private business. And it is one of the few examples where the European Commission is good for the Czech citizen. Let's try to use it, let's try to do something about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please take the position at the rapporteur's table, take the role of rapporteur. Before I open up a general debate, I will introduce you to the apologies that have come in. Minister Tomáš Petříček apologizes for this morning's meeting for working reasons, the President of Radim Fiala is apologizing for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for personal reasons, Mr Ivan Jáč apologizes from 14 o'clock from today's meeting for working reasons, and Mr Petr Venhoda apologises from 13 o'clock to the meeting of the subcommittee on energy. I am now opening up a general debate. Mr Ivo Vondrák is the first to sign up, followed by Mr Lubomír Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say that as Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region, and, of course, Madam Secretary, we had and we have the opportunity to deal with those interested in the purchase of ArcelorMittal Ostrava in person. I also had the opportunity to deal with a second student who was British Steel. And the truth is that there have been things that need to be dealt with, and I would say not only to discuss, but to really ask for solutions as quickly as possible, because time here really is playing against us. Liberty House was chosen as a buyer. I'm not gonna describe her. You've heard that a few times today. I was struck by one thing of a fundamental nature. Today, the company has over 19,000 employees globally, and by buying four other companies in Europe, they will grow by 12.5 thousand employees and want to double their production. Please, these are the numbers that are fundamental and really raised concerns in me. That is why I asked whether the company is ready for this and whether it is ready to invest in ArcelorMittal in Ostrava's hut, because it will not be possible to invest in the future. I was told it was a challenge. I understand that this is a challenge, but in my opinion it is also a great risk. And I think that's the thing we should be demanding, urgently, from the government, to the owners of Liberty House, to put forward an investment plan. To present an investment plan that they want to invest in Ostrava and how. [[11.40 hours]] The second thing we've talked about here is emission allowances. We have received these, the Czech Republic, for production in Ostrava and it cannot be admitted that we will leave them to someone else, because this will certainly lead to increased production costs, or in other words, Ostrava's company will lose its competitiveness thanks to these increased costs. Here, too, there are ways of forcing this society not to do this. Further information I have learned is troubling that 36 months should be Ostrava's rocks dependent on ArcelorMittal's business network. For 36 months, the Ostrava Hut under the new owner will essentially be exposed to de facto indirect management by ArcelorMittal, which is once again a very dangerous step, because we do not know how it will take place. I understand that they have to run through the contracts, but in my opinion again it may mean that our Ostrava Hut will basically be out of the market and will de facto be under the control of ArcelorMittal, the ArcelorMittal Group. The last thing that was said here was on the subject of Energy. Yes, it is true that so far the new student has not shown interest in redemption. They consider this to be another possible step forward, however, this again essentially makes the Ostrava Hut, which is sold, dependent on Energetica, which belongs in part to ArcelorMittal. I believe that the only possible solution is to ask the government of a new candidate to submit answers to these specific questions, and to act immediately on them in the sense or in the direction of the European Commission, which must guarantee the things that it has promised. And the guarantees are that production must not be reduced and sustainable development and competition must be ensured, competition for ArcelorMittal. What I've been describing here is basically de facto and de iure disrupting these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u7	Thank you. Mr Juchelka will speak with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u8	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would just like to add to the facts that have not been raised here by one of my previous speakers. And I fully agree with them that from the annual production of 7.2 million. the tons of steel that we export, only ArcelorMittal produces 2.4 million, which is a huge package, and has six thousand employees. Of course, I would like to call on the Government of the Czech Republic and also the European Commission to think about this number here. It is 6,000 employees directly in ArcelorMittal, not to mention all the follow-up services and other things that concern this one of the largest employers in our region, the Moravian-Silesian Region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u9	Thank you. Now, Mr Lubomír Volný in the general debate. After that, President Stanjura will perform. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm afraid all the most important things have practically been said today. There's practically nothing the government can do. Everything will be decided by the European Commission, which was not elected by any citizen of the European Union, and certainly not by any of the employees of the Ostrava Hut. In Mr Luzar's optimistic speech through Mr President, there was hope that the European Commission would solve this problem for us, that the European Commission would, for some reason, take care of the problem that would arise in the Moravian-Silesian region due to the closure of the operation of a large local employer there. My feeling is different. The European Commission will not only solve nothing, the European Commission will, as always, only make this situation worse. This is based on the fact that ArcelorMittal is forced by the European Commission to sell a functioning company that still benefits from some economic profit. ArcelorMittal can't sell a completely worthless business to anyone. This place must be worth some money, because it's not gonna be bought by anyone who couldn't make any money off that place. In this way, we will in essence come to ArcelorMittal's sale of this company to someone who will definitely extract it, to someone who will calculate the remaining value of the skilled cheap workforce, the residual value of the embedded means of production, land and everything else to the company, and anyone who buys it from ArcelorMittal on the basis of the European Commission's guidelines will buy it only in order to make a definitive profit and to bring it down economically and liquidate it in the final. It's a problem. It is a problem that we are currently living in a community called the European Union that has an unelected European Commission that will tell us what we have or should not do at home. Yes, I agree with Mr. Luzar. Exactly what he describes is what ArcelorMittal is trying to do and what he's doing, including the bypass of energy companies. Because it's exactly the same situation as buying a highly functional, luxurious cell phone that only one charger in the world has. You're just gonna be trapped, and you're gonna pay a lot more for that charger than you're gonna pay for the whole cell phone, or you're gonna be blackmailing. Of course, the owners of ArcelorMittal are no benefactors, they're tough businessmen. And they're not gonna do anything to hurt them in the finals in any way. They always do what somehow strengthens their position in the finals. So some naive idea that there is some kind of force that forces a global capitalist to sell the business in an appropriate way to the citizens of a region somewhere in Europe is, in my view, naive Eurooptimism at the level of a failed joke. I am not saying that all of this, but a large part of these problems that we are currently in, and that is that we are exporting our highly qualified but cheap workforce not only within the European Union, but globally, I believe that the law we are preparing would have resolved by us following the model of laws from other European countries on the regulation of capital exports, which was obtained by this very qualified and undervalued work of our citizens in this country, which would have effectively forced these companies to invest some of the revenues that they will obtain here on this country, back into the economy in the Czech Republic, preferably in the development of their particular company, of course. All other suggestions and suggestions are really something at the level of dream and naivism and optimism, whatever we call it. Because no one will ever force a global capitalist to behave responsibly and nicely towards a region somewhere in many people's fallen pieces of Europe, because such a force never existed, does not exist and will not exist. I will take the liberty of reading a resolution after the end of the debate, which I would like to get to know my colleagues in advance, so I will ask if that is possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u11	It is possible, but I would ask you to sign up for this later in the detailed debate or read it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u12	Okay. I would like to propose a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to do its utmost in negotiating with the European Commission so that ArcelorMittal does not fall into the hands of anyone who intends to extract and reduce it merely economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In addition, President Stanjura is in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u14	Thank you for the floor. It is the second time this week when we are dealing with a problem that affects my electoral region, the Moravian-Silesian region. After Ostrava University Hospital, we have a problem with ArcelorMittal. I would like to remind you that we have already talked about this company and about the risks to the company's continued operation in the last parliamentary term, when, at the initiative of the opposition, we discussed the risk of cheap Chinese steel. I don't want to evaluate the trade war between the United States and China right now, but it is clear that China is facing unfair competition. And our concern must be that Europe should impose high tariffs on Chinese steel, which has unfair support, unlike our businesses. Because then the competition can't take place. We are, of course, supporters of the competition between businessmen, between companies, but the competition must be fair. If one of the players receives illegal state support, then, of course, the company from the Czech Republic is not able to compete with him within European or world markets. And I mean, it's her first time. At this point, it seems that the government has no competence. Yes, the government doesn't sell and it doesn't choose. But I think we have a few steps the government can take. I am glad that both government and opposition Members are performing. This is not a problem of dispute between the government and the opposition. This is a regional problem, and I've already said it in that debate about cheap Chinese steel. In terms of employment, the problem for the Moravian-Silesian Region is much bigger than the OKD problem. And I'm not just talking about direct jobs, I'm talking about subcontractors who are tied up and who have their umbilical cord associated with ArcelorMittal. I think that the Government of the Czech Republic - and we are members of the European Union - is to push the European Commission, which has set out the conditions for buying the Italian steel mill for the Mittal family, in the sense that - firstly, I support the proposal of Mr Vondrák, the Governor, that we must definitely want an investment plan from any interested party. Anyone interested in it. I think there's room for cooperation with the governments of those countries involved in the forced sale of four holding companies, if I may say so, Mittal. And I think we're able to block it at prime minister level. After all, trade in the European Union is very often done for something. For example, we have been blocking VAT reductions on electronic books for so long, until we have pushed for reverse charge. I don't want to judge whether it's right or wrong right now, but it's an example that if you're willing to block other things for ArcelorMittal, I'm saying we're supposed to be willing and we're supposed to do it. And it is to be done by the Czech Government and the Prime Minister with full seriousness. Because the impact could be really fatal. The sadness of my previous speaker, for example, that if Mittal didn't have to sell it, it would be good. Well, I'm not sure. Similarly, a dominant player can close any business in his region. Maybe because he evaluates that sometimes it's better for him and sometimes it's not. That's just the reality of free trade. But if, in terms of competitiveness, the sale is ordered, it can't really be the clown shop that's going to happen. Of all the performances of my previous speakers, it is clear that if the sale is realized the way it is being prepared at the moment, there will be no competition for the dominant player Mittal. On the contrary. They could have already approved the sale without the forced sale. Because if I sell it, I'm gonna take allowances out of it, I'm gonna put it on a business network and a lot of other strings, because the business isn't easy, so actually, the new owner is gonna pretend it's not actually his fault. That he would have wanted, but objective circumstances are one way or the other. I don't even think we have to adopt resolutions today. If we come to the idea that the government and the Prime Minister will use all the options at other points to make this sale properly so that there is a real hope of a competitor, and not so-called, as I would say, just a false or invisible part of the holding, but really it will be part of the holding, then I think there is some chance that the business will function much better in the coming years. And let us try to recall the programming period, the first programming period we drew from European funds, 2007-2013, when we created the possibilities for these large enterprises to draw European money in terms of improving the environment. And there was undoubtedly also ArcelorMittal, who drew considerable investment money from these European projects. If the company had no future, the money would have been thrown away. On the other hand, it is worth recalling, and it is not quite popular at the moment, the environmental problem that exists with the production and functioning of this company undoubtedly in our region. And it is in our interest to be able to balance both the promotion of business and the state of the environment. And we get to what many of my previous speakers have been talking about. In order to be able to balance it so that the company can function, maintain employment and, at the same time, to improve the environment in Ostrava and our region, investment is necessary. Without investment, this is not possible and not only would jobs be lost, but would also threaten to deteriorate the environment. And I think that's the government's job, and I say, I see a consensus here between government and opposition MPs. I think that's a good thing. And if the government considers, either the Minister or the Prime Minister, that they need a strong resolution, a strong mandate from the Chamber of Deputies, I say to the civil democrats that we are ready to join it and equip the Czech government with such a strong mandate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Juříček is also enrolled in the debate. But before I give him my word, I say that Mr Zahradník will vote with replacement card number 7 and that Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomáš Hanzel apologizes until the end of this morning's meeting for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you one more look. Because one option is that we will push those conditions through the government and through the European Commission, as Mr Vondrák said here through the President, but it is necessary to realise that entrepreneurs will only be pushed to some extent. I am, of course, a customer of ArcelorMittal, and I know that ArcelorMittal's price negotiations are made from London headquarters, which actually confirms what Mr Vondrák said here through the President. But it is necessary to realize that the four huts that Liberty House should buy, behind which is the Indian entrepreneur Gupta, so that it is actually an agreement between two Indian entrepreneurs, which is clear that this is already showing something, so it needs to be seen in the plane that Piombino, Ostrava, Skopje and Galati, which he should buy, so he has surplus capacity and it is clear that some of the four will close, because those capacities are not occupied. Iron consumption in the form in which it is produced by ArcelorMittal has been declining over the long term in Europe and in the world. The trend is unstoppable. So it's clear that some of the four will close. I would have seen more than just the pressure of how much investment and how much volume and how much employment, so I would have seen another thing, and that's more like the pull solution that we're going to create for them to create a headliner in Ostrava. And the moment it's created from that new Liberty House headquarter in Ostrava, there's a much bigger guarantee that they won't close Ostrava. But that's the turn direction. And I look at it empathically like I'm being dragged into it as an entrepreneur. So creating only pressure through the European Commission may not always be effective, and as I say, the pressure can only be to some extent. I would suggest two solutions. What Mr Vondrák here said through the President, and the second solution is to offer them the right conditions so that they want to stay here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u17	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting for the debate, please? Yes, the rapporteur, Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u18	Thank you for the floor. I am not speaking here as a rapporteur, but let me also be involved in the discussion. I did not deliberately ask - and at the beginning I said that I think that the resolution that we should adopt today would affect something. [[Don't you think?]] If it should not be at the request of the government that it really requires a unanimous clear resolution by the House in support of the European Commission's unwillingness to deal with them. Then I'd see it as necessary. I also realize the risks that have been raised here and which have been mentioned here by my previous speakers about the future. [[12.00 hours]] It is up to us, namely the Government and its position and the Prime Minister, to find out what position the Czech Republic wants to take Mittal this particular issue. I wouldn't worry about it right now, and I'll admit it, I'm saying it here openly, with a strict and clear "you have to do it, that's it," because at that moment his position in the Council of Ministers will be confined here in these boundaries that will be set up by our Parliament. I would allow him the freedom to negotiate and press hard on the European Commission to give these conditions, because the steel market is really in big trouble, and he could really end up in trouble in some of the identified areas in the future. And there was China and increased production and market share, there were other problems of other smelters, which did not invest so much and now have a problem with ecological limits and are in the European Union, and others and others. Of course, the investment plan is very important, but it's also just a plan. And if you don't have clear guarantees in that plan that they'll be financially supported and that they'll have something to do with realization, we know those plans, and we're able to write about every dozen of them. The question of reality is somewhere else. Therefore, I would very much like the Minister to take this debate today as the basis for, I do not know, every Thursday, when there are interpelations, to briefly inform about the developments in the Czech Government's and European Commission's negotiations on this issue, within the framework of the Czech Government's negotiations with future acquirers, and to inform this House about the news, because I think the weekly rhythm, when this event, say, is acute - and it is acute - will be optimal for us to have that information. No resolution will help us to do so either. This is really something that should be completely self-evident and automatic in the interests of the Czech Republic. And I assume that our government works in the interests of the Czech Republic and not that, as the previous speaker has suggested here, it is subject to the European Commission and Europe, or anything on it, that is not good. So much for the motion for a resolution on my part. So if it should be hard, clear, let the government say so. I don't think there's anyone here in this House who wouldn't accept him. If it should just be a dull statement for the election, which serves to show how bad Europe is and how good we are, it does not solve the problem that this New Hut has. That doesn't solve the problem of unionists, employees, or residents. And in conclusion, let me just say that this Energy is not just energy, but it needs to be dependent on the 110,000 people of Ostrava South, the citizens that are being heated here from this enterprise. And I'm worried about the situation where it would have turned out, the one black scenario I was saying at the beginning, how the government would have stood up to it if there were adequate OKD, if the government were to enter the future Ostrava steel company, whatever the name would be, and try to continue manufacturing, as we are experiencing and living at the moment in OKD. This is a crisis scenario for me that I don't want to admit to myself. And that's why I'm saying again, it's not that nobody here in this House wants to. The point is to step in, so that the Minister and Prime Minister take it as a priority and bring the European Commission to know all the concerns that we have, and that the European Commission pushes the existing owner and the future owner to present, in particular, guarantees as to how they want to continue. And these guarantees concern both energy and emission allowances, and mainly investment funds, investment plans. These are the things that must be heard in the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u19	Thank you. Have a nice noon. And now here's a point of fact. Wait a minute. So Mr. Volný. [[Lubomír]] You're logged in for de facto. Or maybe it wasn't a colleague who was driving in front of me, deleted. Okay. Now, with priority rights... This is how the Minister wants to speak, so we will allow you, but I still have Mr Volný here for the general debate. Have you also spoken in the general debate? [[Yes.]] So, Madam Secretary, if you still want in the general debate, we'll give you some room. However, after the general debate, I would ask you anyway if you are interested in the final word. [[The Minister is interested in both.]] I'm just saying, I'm gonna ask you one more time after that, so you have two spaces. You have double space even.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Before you formulate a resolution, I would very much like to repeat what the possibilities of the Czech Government are, because we are simply not here to make illusions about what we can and cannot do. It has already been said by Mr Juříček, through Mr President, that these are two private entities. And we really can appeal to the European Commission. And we do that on a daily basis. We communicate on a daily basis if there's any change. And if we have any information, regardless of energy, regardless of the issue of emission allowances, what has been mentioned here, these are all topics that we regularly inform the European Commission about. On the other hand, I must say that we did not get into these specific conditions. We did not receive them from the European Commission. We're also communicating with the supervisory authority that's there, which is Grant Thornton. We regularly communicate with a person who is designated by ArcelorMittal, Mr. Ashok Patil. But to get into the resolution those areas that this government can simply influence. I would also like to say that I believe that Mr Vondrák, the Governor, through Mr President, has mentioned the need to cooperate with all four interested parties. We've already started communicating with them. It is true that the reaction at that first moment was not entirely I would say enthusiastic because they claimed that each country had a slightly different condition. However, the issue of maintaining production and employment is a question that is characteristic of all countries. Thank you for your attention, and then I'd like to have the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u21	The final word - that's where you'll get the space, Madam Secretary. Mr Ivo Vondrák will now be prepared with the de facto President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura and with another de facto. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u22	I don't think my secretary and I have exactly gotten along. It's good to appeal, but it's not enough. I have suggested that we negotiate in style for something, for example from another area, so that the pressure of the European Commission, I do not know who will handle it, is directly the European Commission or DG Competition. I don't know who's gonna handle this. It's nice to appeal, but it's not enough. Because they will say, well, we got five emails, the government of the Czech Republic didn't like it, they wanted something, but we decided otherwise. So I think the pressure must be much higher. I'm sure the daily communications are fine, that goes to the Ministry. But I think we need to raise it to that premiere level and try to negotiate that tough approach. Firstly, the European Commission is ending in the foreseeable future, which is to be said that after the next elections, which are in May, a new European Commission will be set up. I'm not at these meetings, obviously I don't know if the final approval of the sale of the Italian steelworks is conditional on the sale of the four. But I think if we don't tie it to another problem... Maybe without it, I don't know. But I think, in the end, we're supposed to negotiate this hard, because just appeal and receive information, that's okay. But I'm afraid that wouldn't be enough, that, despite all this, the decision could be different from the interests of the Moravian-Silesian Region and therefore the interests of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u23	Thank you. I will ask Mr Vondrák for another one with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u24	Thank you for the floor. Only for a very short time. I am glad that it has been said here that the government is acting on these matters, because sometimes this is perceived rather the opposite. I'm glad things are up today. As far as the resolution is concerned, I believe that when the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic comments on this issue, it is only ignorant, and I mean whoever wants to buy ArcelorMittal Ostrava that cannot disrespect these things. So one more time. I think, I see that with this resolution, we can help the government negotiate with whoever wants to buy ArcelorMittal. That is why I think it would be good to adopt such a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u25	Thank you. At this point, I do not have another application for a general debate or a factual comment, so I will look around the hall to see if anyone else is interested in speaking. I see that I do not, so I will, with permission, end the general debate and ask if there is an interest in the final word after the general debate. Madam Secretary is interested and Mr Luzar will also be interested? No. So, Madam Secretary, please. And then I will open the debate in detail. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u26	Thank you for the final word, Mr President. It'll be very short. I would like to thank the Chamber of Deputies, you, honourable colleagues. I believe that this resolution, as has already been said here, will help the government in further negotiations. And I would just like to inform the Prime Minister that I have spoken to the Prime Minister before the House of Deputies, we have discussed his intense interest in the issue and we are already preparing for him the materials he will have in the Council. So I believe that we will do everything we can to help with the situation in the region. I would like to say that the European Commission has not ordered sales. The European Commission has ordered a reduction. And I would very much like us to see the situation that selling is a chance. Sales is a chance that it will actually continue to be produced in Ostrava's hut. And we as a government want to do everything we can to maintain employment and social reconciliation in the region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u27	Thank you. I would now open the debate in detail. So I have Mr Lubomír Volný to speak with you. So I assume you're going to make us a motion for a resolution. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. By mutual agreement, I propose the following text as a representative of the SPD, Mr Vondrák, as Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region, as well as colleagues from the Pirates and ODS Club: "The Chamber of Deputies instructs the Government of the Czech Republic to defend the interests of the staff of ArcelorMittal Ostrava with maximum commitment to the European Commission so as not to sell the hut into the hands of someone who plans only to reduce it economically and effectively. And also that the government should require the buyers of ArcelorMittal Ostrava to submit a concrete plan and commitment to invest in this hut." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u29	Thank you. So now I do not have another one entered into a detailed debate, so I am ending the detailed debate. And now I'm going to ask if there's any interest in the final words again, Madam Secretary, the plaintiff. So, Mr. plaintiff, you have the floor, you're interested in the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me just a brief final word. Of course, there was a motion for a resolution. I would ask the petitioner to give me, of course, the motion for a resolution. At the same time, I would ask you to take a short break so that I can get to know it, or agree with the petitioners, because, of course, I am also in favour of a joint resolution, so that it is the resolution of all the members of Parliament and all the political clubs. So I would also ask other representatives of political clubs if they are interested in participating in this resolution to join us. Because it is an important resolution that can affect the position of 70,000 people in the Moravian-Silesian region in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u31	You are today Vice-President of the KSČM MEP's club in the absence of the President of the KSČM MP's club, so you are proposing that a break be announced. So I can accommodate that, of course, but you need to specify what break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u32	Fifteen minutes probably will be, 16 minutes depending on the time it still is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u33	Okay, so I'm gonna oblige you, so just organize it like you said. And I'm declaring a 16-minute break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u34	We have 12:30, so I'd like to start the negotiations again. Well, I'm asking because I noticed the reason for the pause, so you were interested... I have interrupted you in the final word and I ask whether, therefore, there will be a resolution other than that read in the detailed debate by Mr Volný. In that case, we would reopen the debate and I would ask the Minister to say hello.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u35	It will be read in the revised text of the resolution, which was prepared in agreement with all the chairmen of the political clubs who gathered for this break. So I would ask the Minister -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u36	Well, I'll ask, excuse me. So I would ask, because we will have to reopen the detailed debate, Minister Marta Nováková or any minister, but perhaps you just to say hello - good day. So I do not want to dictate what you have to say to us, but we need the Minister to speak with one word, and this will reopen the debate under the Rules of Procedure. All you have to do is say hello.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u37	Mr President, honourable Members, I believe you will have beautiful topics to discuss today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u38	Well, thank you. This is why I will again allow myself to open up a detailed debate and now I ask who will read the resolution. Mr Volný Again. So let us be familiar with the motion for a resolution in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to introduce you to the motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which has been agreed by the absolute majority, or I think all the members of Parliament. The draft text of the resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to defend the interests of the Czech Republic with the utmost commitment to the European Commission, taking into account the specific interests of the employees of ArcelorMittal Ostrava, so as to sell the hut into the hands of a candidate who will ensure the sustainable development of Ostrava's hut and thus of the entire region. And also that the government should require the buyers of ArcelorMittal Ostrava to submit a concrete plan and commitment to invest in this hut." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-25-ps2017-020-03-002-177.u40	Well, thank you. I will look around to see if anyone else is interested in taking part in a detailed debate. I don't see interest, so I am ending the debate in detail. In order to fulfil the formal issue, I will ask again the final words whether anyone is interested - Madam Secretary, Mr Luzar? You're not interested. So we will proceed to the vote on the resolution. I'm gonna go get all the MPs together. I see we're in sufficient numbers here. We will take the vote. I'm opening the vote. Whoever is in favour of the resolution, press the button, raise your hand. Whoever opposes the resolution, press the button, raise your hand. Voting number 62, 142 Members registered, for 129, against zero. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. [[Let's hear it from the middle of the hall.]] And now I have a request from the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Radek Vondráček, who asked the President of the MPs to come to him for a meeting on the resolution on the 100th anniversary of the founding of Czechoslovakia. But we will continue the negotiations. I'm done with this point. And there's another point ahead.
