ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 6th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I ask you to settle down in your seats and sign up with your ID cards, or tell me who will vote with the replacement card. Mr Okleštěk will vote with replacement card number 4. Apologies for today's negotiations were requested by the following Members: Hana Aulická Jírovcová for work reasons, Dana Balcarová for health reasons, Martin Baxa for no reason, Mihola Běhounek for work reasons, Řehounek Birke for work reasons, Petr Dolínek for work Vrána, Lenka Dražilová for health reasons, Milan Feranec from Procházková to 11.00 for work reasons and then from 14.00 to 18.00 for work reasons, Mikuláš Ferjenčík for work Pávek, Petr Fiala from 11.00 for work reasons, Třešňák Markéta Holík for family reasons, Tereza Hyťhová for personal reasons, Ivan Jáč from 15 hours for work reasons, Monika Jarošová for Volný of health Ondřej, Pavel Jelínek for family reasons, Marian Jurečka for Staněk Pekarová, for work Adamová, Kasal Kasa from 9.00 to 13.00 for Nacher reasons, for reasons, for Taťána of work Jan, Jiří Kobza for Antonín of foreign travel, František Kopřiva for Němcová of foreign travel, Jaroslav Kytýr for Špičák, for Růžička, for Vít of Maříková travel, for Patrik, Jana Vildumetzová for reasons, for Věra of the foreign From the members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš due to foreign travel, Tomáš Hüner for the morning meeting for work reasons, Lubomír Metnar due to foreign travel, Jaroslava Němcová for work reasons, Robert Pelikán due to the meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council in Bulgaria from 14.30, Robert Plaga within 15 hours for work reasons, Ilja Šmíd from 9.00 to 14.30 for work reasons, Dan Ťok for health reasons. Mrs Jana Krutáková's apologies arrived subsequently between 10.30 and 12.00 on account of her work. Today, we should continue with firmly classified points from the contract block, i.e. paragraphs 19, 20 and 21. Then we should, if necessary, continue with the other items approved by the agenda. I would like to remind you that at the latest by 11 o'clock it is possible to submit applications for oral interviews and at 11.30 o'clock their lottery draws will take place. In view of the apologies I have read, I would like to inform you in this context that the verifiers of the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies were designated by František Kopřiva and Jiří Mihola. Both gentlemen are excused today, which is why it is necessary to vote new verifiers so that the drawing of applications for oral interviews can take place at 11.30. I therefore propose that we designate Mr Jiří Valenta and Mr Tomáš Vymazal as the verifier for the drawing of oral interviews for the 6th session of the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, this is what we will have to decide in the vote. I therefore begin the vote and ask who is in favour of changing the verifiers, as I have read it. Who's against it? Voting number 68. 110 Members are registered, for 106, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Mr Jiří Valenta and Mr Tomáš Vymazal as the verifiers for the oral interview at the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Furthermore, I have a request for exclusion from the agenda item 37, House press 28, Report on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and its support in 2016. It is the request due to the absence of the Minister. The Minister is asking for it. I'm asking if there's another suggestion... I don't think we're gonna vote on this until 11:00? Or do we do it now? Let's do it now. Excellent. So if there is no further proposal to amend the agenda for today's meeting, then we will only vote on this one amendment - the elimination of paragraph 37, the House Press 28. I'm opening the vote, asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 69. It's registered 112, for 95, against 13. The motion was accepted. Thank you. So we're going to continue with the approved show and I'm opening a point.
