ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-018-042.u1	42. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine on Genetic Testing for Health Purposes, signed in Strasbourg on 24 October 2017, /German press 81/ - First reading The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. Please take the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-018-042.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you the Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine relating to Genetic Testing for Health Purposes, signed in Strasbourg on 24 October 2017. The Czech Republic, as a member of the Council of Europe, an international organisation working on the principle of discussion and search for common solutions, participates, inter alia, in solving economic, scientific, legal issues as well as the maintenance and development of fundamental human rights and freedoms. It is with this aim that the Czech Republic signed the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine in 1998. In view of developments in individual biomedical areas, four additional protocols have been developed extending the existing principles and the legal protection of the persons concerned, which are governed by that Convention. One of these documents is the Additional Protocol related to genetic testing for health purposes. Ratification of this protocol by the Czech Republic will ensure the highest legal standard of protection for the implementation of genetic tests. The Additional Protocol was adopted unanimously by all Member States of the Council of Europe in 2008. It was subsequently ratified in Slovenia, Moldova, Montenegro and Norway, but it has not yet entered into force. The entry into force of the Additional Protocol shall be subject to its ratification by five States, of which at least four Member States of the Council of Europe. By ratifying the Additional Protocol by the Czech Republic as the fifth State, the Additional Protocol would enter into force. This step, therefore, has not only national but also international benefits. From the point of view of the Czech Republic, the ratification of this Additional Protocol is also in line with the national strategy for rare diseases for the years 2010 to 2020 and does not, from a professional point of view, require immediate follow-up to the related legislation. As more than 80 per cent of all rare diseases are genetic in nature, there is currently an accelerated process of ratification of the Additional Protocol in the European Union. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you to give your consent to ratify this international treaty and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-018-042.u3	I thank the Minister of Health and now I will read two apologies, an apology from today's meeting of the House from 18 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons of Mrs Lenka Dražilová and Mrs Valachová apologize for the House's meeting today from 16 o'clock to 18 o'clock for working reasons. I therefore ask now that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Pavel Plzák. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-018-042.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, as has already been said by the Minister, this Additional Protocol builds on the Convention, the full name of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Being in relation to the application of biology and medicine. This Convention is one of the fundamental treaties in Europe and regulates human rights in connection with progress in medical and biological sciences and application in human research and was adopted in 1997 and ratified after the adoption of five States in 1999. The Czech Republic acceded to it in 2001. As has already been said here, this Convention allows for the adoption of the so-called Convention. Additional protocols. In the meantime, four have been accepted and approved so far. So far, the Czech Republic has joined only one, it was an additional protocol on the prohibition of cloning human beings. We could not join the other additional protocols for missing national legislation. In the context of the adoption of this legislation, in particular the Act on Specific Health Services, we have come to a situation where we can proceed to this further Additional Protocol, which is the full name of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine related to Genetic Testing for Health Purposes. In short, this Protocol specifies the Convention in relation to genetic testing carried out for health purposes and, in particular, regulates certain conditions for carrying out genetic laboratory tests and, in particular, regulates those examinations in humans, in persons unable to give consent to this investigation. As has already been said, so far this Additional Protocol has been ratified only by four States of the Council of Europe, namely Slovenia, Moldova, Norway and Montenegro, and if we, as Parliament and the Senate, ratify the President after our consent, we will be the fifth State and this Additional Protocol will enter into force. The implementation of this Protocol will have no impact on the state budget. It is in line with the national strategy for rare diseases for the years 2010 to 2020 and is regulated in our legal order in particular by the Act on specific health services, but also by the Act on health services. It is in line with constitutional order on international law. In a detailed debate, I would propose that this matter, this Additional Protocol, be discussed in the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-018-042.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I hereby open a general debate. I'll see if anyone's applied. I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the general debate. I wonder if anyone's interested in the final word. The rapporteur? Mr. Secretary? There is no interest in the final words, so we will consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see any interest in another proposal, so I'm gonna go ahead and take a vote. So I will read the proposal: who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the foreign committee? Initiating vote now. Please press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. There. In the vote number 139, 151 Members voted in favour of 129, against zero. The result is that the proposal was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. So I'm done discussing this point. The next item is
