ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-17-ps2017-006-01-001-023.u1	23. Proposal for the establishment of a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of the Office for Foreign Relations and Information According to Article 12a of Law No. 153/1994 Coll., on Intelligence Services of the Czech Republic, the Chamber of Deputies sets up a supervisory body for the control of the activities of the Office for Foreign Relations and information consisting of seven Members. Pursuant to Article 47 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this supervisory body be appointed as a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies. Furthermore, we should decide in accordance with Article 115 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, whether we will establish this committee in accordance with the principle of proportional representation or, where appropriate, that the members of the Commission be elected by a majority system. For the sake of completeness, I add that in the previous parliamentary term this commission was not set up, but the effectiveness of the amendment of the Act since 1. 1. 2018. I am opening the debate on this issue and I am asking who is interested in speaking on this point. I don't see anyone. I conclude the general debate on this point and we will proceed to the debate in detail. I ask, is anyone interested in speaking in a detailed debate? It's not like that. I'm ending the debate in detail. [[9.50 hours]] I will make a motion for a resolution: Chamber of Deputies I. establishing a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of the Office for Foreign Relations and information consisting of seven Members; II. provides that the Commission shall establish itself on the basis of the principle of proportional representation. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution. Who's against it? Voting number 12. 187 Members registered, 183, against no one. This proposal has been adopted, and I note that the motion for a resolution has been adopted, and I conclude this point. I declare my apologies to Secretary Klára Dostálová, today from 14. 30 hours due to a meeting with representatives of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. I'm opening another point with a name on it.
