ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-002-135.u1	135. Proposal for amendments to the composition of the institutions Chambers of Deputies On the bench, we were given a resolution by the electoral commission number 91 of 23 October 2018. I now ask President kolovratník to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-002-135.u2	Thank you for the floor. I wish you, my dear colleagues, good afternoon. On behalf of the Election Commission, I will allow myself to interrupt the state budget negotiations, as we agreed yesterday. We've got our ballot points fixed, and my performance tonight will be very brief before 13:00. We've got three points ready. The first is a proposal for changes in the composition of the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. It is a standard electoral point where, more or less, at each meeting, we are now setting a deadline as an electoral committee at the request of the clubs by Monday, and then, if the clubs want to make some transfers between their members, their Members, they can do so. In this case, the deadline until Monday 22 October was 12.00 hours. The Election Commission has received proposals from the club of the ANO movement and from social democracy. I'm gonna read them to you for the tape. Both proposals are contained in the resolution of the electoral commission number 91 of 23 October and I can say that the transfers are within the framework of the imaginary treaty or the number that belongs to the club of the ANO movement and also to social democracy. They are therefore transfers within these two parliamentary clubs. At the same time, I remind you that the contents of the changes have been printed on your desk. As far as resignations are concerned, the YES movement proposes the resignation of colleague Stanislav Fridrich from the Budget Committee and Miloslav Janulík from the Constitutional Legal Committee. Furthermore, social democracy proposes the resignation of my colleague Milan Chovanec from the Permanent Commission for the Control of the Activities of the General Inspection of Security Corps and Kateřina Valachová from the Permanent Commission for the Work of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies. These resignations, as I said before, are nominated within these two clubs. To the budget committee for the ANO movement, to the constitutional Petr Stanislav Fridrich for the ANO movement and to the permanent commission for the control of GIBS for social democracy, Roman Onderka and to the permanent commission for the work of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, Chairman of the Social Democracy Club, Mr. Jan Chvojka. According to the Rules of Procedure and according to the established practice of these elections, these changes are always voted by the House by public vote, by acclamation, so I see that, in accordance with our resolution as an electoral commission, we also propose acclamation. Now, Mr President, I will ask you to open the debate and then I would like to vote first on the resignations and the second vote on nominations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-002-135.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm opening the debate. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Pikal has taken part in the debate. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-002-135.u4	Good afternoon. I don't want to make this any longer. I would just like to turn the House's attention to one thing on this occasion, namely that, at a time when this House was building up and still had such a workable atmosphere, we have approved by House press number 24, that the House's permanent inspection committee will have not seven members, but at least seven members arranged to represent all political parties. Six laws changed because of it. And this resolution hasn't been implemented until now, so I'm asking if we're ever gonna touch it, or if we've just changed it for form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-002-135.u5	Thank you. I have Mr. Stanjura's application with a point of fact. Yes, this application is not active. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. I'm not reporting, I'm done with the debate. The President of the Election Commission suggested that we first vote on resignations and then vote on elections. If there is no objection to this, I would put to the vote on the proposed resignations. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 48: 182 Members registered, for 156, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the election, as the individual colleagues have been nominated, and how President Kolovratník introduced us to this. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 49: 184 Members signed in for 160, so the proposal was adopted and the said colleagues were elected. That concludes the discussion of this point. Opening point number
