ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u1	108. Government bill amending Act No. 178/2005 Coll., on the abolition of the National Property Fund of the Czech Republic and on the powers of the Ministry of Finance in the privatisation of the Czech Republic's assets (the Act on the abolition of the National Property Fund), as amended, and some other related laws / House printing 130/ - third reading Thank you for Vrána already reached the rapporteur's table as rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets. The motion for rejection and the amendment are set out in the Chambers of Press 130/2, which has been delivered to you on 26 June 2018. The resolution of the Guarantee Committee has been delivered to you as House Press 130/3. The appellant is ready to speak before the debate is opened, so I give the floor to Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, now she's really amending the Act on the abolition of the National Property Fund. I'm sorry again. The submitted amendment is in the third reading and has been widely commented and explained in the previous negotiations. So for starters, I would just like to remind myself in a nutshell of her basic objective. The proposed amendment to the Act on the abolition of the National Property Fund is intended to eliminate all special government expenses of special privatisation accounts. The amendment will ensure that the expenditure titles of special accounts will be reduced only to expenditure related to privatisation commitments, which will thus regain the priority of funding. I repeat that it is currently not possible to cover privatisation costs from any other sources. At the same time, the amendment will enable efficient and transparent use of free funds. At second reading on 26 July, Mr Skopeček proposed the rejection of the amendment and Mr Ferjenčík tabled an amendment. In addition to technical adaptations, the amendment also includes the removal of the possibility of transfer to the State budget without correct conditions. The Ministry of Finance, and I say this openly, rejects the amendment as a whole, because the removal of the possibility of transfer to the state budget without correct conditions calls into question the whole concept of managing special accounts and makes it impossible for one of the key intentions of the amendment, which is the meaningful use of unused means of privatisation in the state budget and to prevent them from having an effective accumulation in special privatisation accounts. It must be added that both technical adaptations are also poorly prepared because they completely ignore the fact that the amendment merely changes the wording of one of the expenditure titles, but their total number remains unchanged. I add that the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommended not to approve the amendment at its meeting on 29 June. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u3	I thank the Minister of Finance and open the debate where Mrs Věra Kovářová is the first to sign up. Mr Ferjenčík is reporting from the position, but he was preceded by an electronic application by a colleague named Skopeček, because he has priority under the Rules of Procedure Act. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me sum up the opinion of the Mayors' Club and independent of the following amendment to the Act on the abolition of the National Property Fund. The revenue in this account is from privatisation and, of course, from dividends from state-owned companies, and these funds are clearly intended not to be used for other purposes at a time when the economy is growing and the pension account is in surplus. Of course, it's a certain reserve. We also know that there are obligations of the State to eliminate environmental damage. What the current amendment is proposing is unacceptable to us because it forgets the commitments and dissolves the reserve into the state budget without precise purpose. As has been said here in previous readings, and in an artificial way, the government is reducing the deficit, which is already disproportionately high given how the economy is growing. [[11.20 hours]] So let me compare the state's management, virtually. governments, management of municipalities and cities. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and Minister Schillerová often criticize municipalities and cities for having tens of billions of crowns in their accounts, for not investing enough and for taking an example from the state. I can't agree with that. Here you can see a huge difference in the approach of municipalities and cities and the government's approach to economics. The people have money in their accounts because they think about the future. They have them there to invest larger units, greater civic amenities. They will save money to participate in funding subsidies, to restore water management infrastructure. And they save it right when there is economic growth. Reason? The reason is that he thinks longer than one term in the term. He thinks of many years in advance. They are at heart with sustainable development in the communities in which they live and will live. Once again, municipalities and cities are thinking about the future, unlike the state and this government. Its management can be characterised by two words, the oblivion of the future. In our view, this law is proof of this, and therefore the Mayors' and Independent Club will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Now, Mr Jan Skopeček, a colleague of Ferjenčík, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u6	Thank you for the floor. At first reading, I suggested that the law be dismissed, explain why. I consider this amendment a very irresponsible idea. The irresponsible part is that the law will allow the state budget to dissolve funds now identified and now bound in the reserve fund, which were planned to be used in emergency situations, for special purposes, and thus separated in a reserve account. At a time when we have strong economic growth, even though we have low unemployment, the current government wants to touch on these funds, which are accumulated earlier from privatization revenues, especially as dividends from state-owned enterprises in special accounts today. It is not enough for the current government to grow its tax revenues, that each year it has more to redistribute thanks to economic growth. That's not enough, she still wants to touch the reserves that were designed for emergency situations. I would understand if the government wanted this at a time of economic downturn, if the revenue of the state budget were to fall, if there were any sudden situations such as floods, and the government really needed to reach for free money, I would understand. I will add that the money in the reserve fund is also used at a time when so-called the pension account is negative, this is when we have more unemployed, not so good contributions to the state budget from the compulsory contributions of employees and employers. In such a case that the government can secure pensions, it can reach into this fund and cover the deficit. However, because of the low unemployment today, we do not have such a problem, and the government is sorry that this money will be on that account and will not be able to redistribute it. The worst part is that the government wants it to go into the budget without any conditions, and it could pay for, like, a senseless student fare or another buying of voters that we have seen since this government. I find it very irresponsible. There is a pension reform ahead of us, whether this government decides to do so, for the past five years colleagues have not agreed to do so, perhaps they will agree to this during the current parliamentary term, or any other government will still have to take some form of pension reform. Clearly, if we do not want to burden existing pensioners with pension reform, we will need the extra money to invest the pension reform, we will pay. I think that a pretty good source for the costs of pension reform would be this reserve fund, which has always been planned from the outset to separate money from the sale of state property and from extraordinary revenues, so that irresponsible redistributive governments would not spend it on waste, but would save it for a period of crisis or for some structural reforms. So I appeal to all who have at least the elementary principles of responsibility for the future, the responsibility to public finances, so that they do not support this proposal. The government has enough money to redistribute. We see it today and daily, what nonsense of the type of student fare can approve and pay. Let us save this money from this irresponsible government! Let us save them for the future and not approve of this amendment of the law! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u7	I thank Mr Jan Skopečka. Now, Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to present my amendment, explain it, ask for support. At the same time, I will sum up the position on the law as a whole. The state has some resources that today are from disposable income, virtually. At this time, these are repeated incomes, but from state-owned enterprises, which are often difficult to predict. We're moving between two concepts here. One is that the revenue will be equal to the revenue of the state budget, the second version is, the second option is that the revenue will be in some fund and will be specifically determined e.g. the remediation of environmental damage, the construction of transport infrastructure. At this point in time, the government's proposal is such a cat dog between these two approaches, which simultaneously says, theoretically, they're supposed to be to bail out environmental damage and build infrastructure, but if the government wants to, it'll transfer them to its budget and make it a regular income that they'll deal with in their own way. We consider this approach unhappy. So whether it is really the revenue of the state budget that it is going to budget, which it is going to expect in advance, or whether it is a separate fund for special purposes. The fundamental problem with the government's proposal is that it allows the state to manipulate its results. This means that in December, the ruling movement will want to improve PR, so it will transfer x billion from the reserve fund to the state budget. Thus, when the state's management results are presented, several billion or tens of billions will be better, even though the real economy will not change at all. Similarly, it will allow another time to make a reserve, for example, for the election year. We find this completely inappropriate to allow the Treasury and the government to confuse the public and purposefully distort people's image of the real economy of the state, plus to spend the money on mandatorial expenses. Now, the law is now counting on the fact that if the pension system is down, then it's possible to recover it from this reserve fund, the minus. But since the pension system is now, according to the government's forecast for a relatively short period of time, but for some time it will be in the plus, they still want to allow the money to be transferred to the budget as a normal income without limiting purpose. My amendment is doing one thing - it makes this purposeful misrepresentation of the state's results impossible for the government, it cuts the possibility of transferring it to the budget as a normal income. Of course, it preserves the original purpose of the fund - building transport infrastructure and eliminating environmental burdens. I believe that if the government really wants to change access to the fund economy and have all the money in one pile, then let the fund as a whole be abolished, let it be plain and do not allow these accounting tricks. Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u9	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. I now have two applications for the debate. Mr Jan Farský and then Mr Marian Jurečka. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u10	Thank you, Mr President. We live in a unique time. The economy is growing at an unprecedented rate, unemployment is minimal, employment is high, contributions are increasing due to wage increases. Yet, in such a unique time, which can never last forever, and the cycle of that decline will arrive, another axe will be stuck in the state budget. There is already another 40 billion budget deficits in the proposal. Although we have been here since the ANO movement's leaders today sitting in key positions in the government, from the Prime Minister to the Minister of Finance, they have heard that the budget may already be balanced in 2017, it is not, although the economy suggests and helps the most that it has ever done in history. In addition, reserves are being dissolved. I'm sorry, but this government rules the way after us the flood. This is the plundering of the resources of the Czech Republic, and the entire nation will pay an unbearable price on this populism of yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u11	Thank you, Mr Farský. Now with Mrs. Finance Minister Alena Schillerová's priority right, and Mr. Jurečka is also enrolled. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me respond, because there's been a series of considerable untruths and inaccuracies, so I'm going to respond to them. First of all, Mrs Kovářová, I do not remember ever criticizing the regions and municipalities. I'm just saying - I'm going to speak for myself now - I'm saying one thing: our public finances are healthy. No matter what the opposition bench sounds like. And by a clear argument that they are healthy, and they perceive it in the European Union when I talk about it with the finance ministers of European countries, they perceive it very much and they perceive it very much with respect. They are healthy because public finances make up the state budget, the budgets of municipalities, the budgets of funds and public institutions. And they are even so large in surplus that the surplus is the third highest within the European Union. And I will repeat it forever. That's just the way it is. Of course, we also have the budgetary determination of taxes, and on the basis of it, the last one, especially last year's adjustments, is transferred to the municipality budget by 35 billion more. This means that we also choose more. And because of that, we can transfer more ammunition into the budget. But we need to see public finances as a whole, and I am not talking about it at all, and I will talk about it very closely when we are discussing the budget, how much we are actually giving and planning to put into various subsidy programs. So let's start with that. And then there are other concepts. About the deficit, so let's say we're in the finance business. We are planning a deficit minus 40 billion, with this being - I will allow myself to use the number at which the European Union hears, because they do not work with nominal numbers, it is 0.7 percent of GDP. So, for your information. But total public finances are in surplus. And especially if we're talking about the healthy finances here, let's talk about the structural balance. And I don't want to bring up the history of what the structural balance looked like a few years ago. And we realize that. We are very responsible for this. And in spite of all this, we are also trying to meet the priorities of this government. And now for the other untruths that have been made. Mr. Mr. Skopečka, you're mixing two things together. [[Responses from the right to address the Member directly.]] I don't have to, according to the Rules of Procedure, I can turn as a member of the government directly. There was an explanation for that. Please, Mr President? Can I or can I not?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u13	Yes, you do. I will keep an eye on the Rules of Procedure, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u14	I'm following him, really. I'm a very polite person. I would never exceed either the rules of procedure or the rules of courtesy. So. Mr. MP, Skopečka, you're mixing two things. I am talking about an account, or the subject of this amendment is a special privatization account, where privatization funds have been transferred in the past, which, of course, is not nearly there any more today, and the cost of removing environmental burdens must be borne out of it, of course we are counting on it. And then, for years, these revenues were commonly involved in the cash flow of the state. Always. There's a technical condition that we want to remove now if there's a deficit pension account. But you were talking about the pension reserve that the government is obviously counting on and will keep, and that is a situation where pensions are paid less than social security income comes in, in a very simple way. And that's what's really going to happen. This will take place in 2018, we plan to do so in 2019, and if this happens, in the next following year, the government is obliged to create this reserve. And if that happens, the government will, of course, create it. This has nothing to do with this account. This is an account where the money was normally connected to a cash flow state. Just so you know, the government can touch them, this privatization account for the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, or other titles, but it only wants to do it through the state budget. And how will the state budget be dealt with? This bill will be passed by this Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u15	Thank you, Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. She made two factual remarks, and I will ask my colleague Jurečka to wait because there are two factual remarks, my colleague Skopeček and my colleague Kovářová. First, Mr Jan Skopeček, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u16	Thank you very much. I would like to comment on the Minister through Mr President, I will turn in accordance with this, and I will also be polite, whenever I am concerned with factual arguments. Madam Secretary, if public finances were healthy, you would not have to prepare and submit a deficit budget to the Chamber of Deputies at a time of growth. At a time of growth, a normal responsible government simply does not provide deficit budgets. If public finances were healthy, then even in the period of economic decline or small stagnation, our public finances would be balanced. At a time when we will not have the current growth, when the Czech Republic will not experience the current period of economic prosperity, I guarantee you that public finances will immediately go to a negative. The fact that they are at a positive point today is due to the fact that we have high economic growth and very low unemployment. The moment the economic trend turns, public finances will fall back into deficit and we will be in trouble. And that's a sign of public finance sickness. We cannot talk about sound public finances when there is an increase in the share of mandatorial spending in the state budget every year and the fiscal sovereignty of the government is falling to decide on a smaller proportion of expenditure in the state budget to those priorities that it chooses. And the other thing. Madam Secretary, either money can be used normally from this fund or it can only be used when the pension account is in deficit. But he can't pay both at the same time. You can either say that the government could have touched it the way it wanted to in the past, or say that the government could only touch it when the pension account was in deficit. And I'm saying he's only supposed to touch it when it's time to touch it because there's not enough money to finance it. I'm able to talk to you, see if I can use it on the transport infrastructure. I simply do not agree that, at a time of growth and economic prosperity, we should dissolve extraordinary money for current spending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u17	Mr. Ambassador, the time has ended for a point of fact. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, with a point of fact, will be prepared for a factual remark by Mr Volný. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u18	Let me respond to the Minister's remarks that there have been some untruths in my speech. Then I must say, it's not true. The fact that the municipalities have too much money in their accounts was the subject of an amendment to the VAT reduction law on fares on the budgetary committee. On the part of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, this fell on the assembly of the Union of Cities and Cities, where he trained the mayors in the way they should invest. He was in a government that didn't invest much. And if you're saying that you're a good tax collector, or even an excellent tax collector, that the municipalities get 35 billion more, that's nice. Then why do you want another 20 billion to stay as a reserve for worse times?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, a factual remark made by my colleague, Jan Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I would like, of course - no, I have to respond to a performance by my colleague Skopeček. Here we can see once again how short the political memory is. But I wouldn't say it's a political memory, they remember it very well, but the rhetoric of the ODS and the TOP is that they always say what suits them. I have a chart like this, a beautiful graph like this, Mr Skopečka, by your means, Mr President. [[shows]] In 2006, economic growth was 6.9, and in 2007 economic growth was 5.5. This is economic growth, which our government cannot currently dream of. However, in 2006 he was Minister Tlustý and in 2007 Minister Tlustý, who took turns with Mr Kalousek, the economic result of the year, i.e. not prediction, but the result - in 2006 was 97.5 billion. the deficit and in 2007 was 66 billion. deficit. That means there weren't any crisis years at all. Once again, economic growth was 6.9 and 5.5, with such huge deficits. So don't lecture here that the responsible government should have surplus budgets at the time of growth. We're showing them as a result, and pretty likely the deficits that are predicated will be significantly better. But don't lecture me when you've managed like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact to Mr Volný. Mr Jakub Michálek, Zbyněk Stanjura, Jan Skopeček, has now made a point of fact. My colleague Jurečka is very patient. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u22	Thank you for the floor. I was very interested in your discussion and debate, so I wanted to ask. Mr. Skopeček said that the government could not have been normal or responsible, as I recall. So I was wondering if Mirek Topolánek's government was abnormal or irresponsible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is now also making a point of fact. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u24	So to be able to answer one last question, you'd have to say which one. The first government did not gain confidence, it ruled in demise, the second government gained confidence, and it was normal with a mandate in the Chamber of Deputies. I think Mr Volný, if he takes a table, he should say all the details. He said, "You'll say what you need." - Like he'd say anything. 2006. Who prepared and approved the 2006 budget? Was it the right or the left, Mr. volný? I think you know that. They were your dear coalition partners, Social Democrats, Jiří Paroubek and Co. So when you become ministers, the government will ask for confidence sometime in September 2006, do you really think that in three months the government will be able to do something about the state's management? Of course not. Of course you do. The same applies in 2007. Legislative changes were needed, which were enforced in 2007. Take a look. A significant tax reduction came in 2007. So either you don't understand, or you're deliberately deceiving colleagues and colleagues here. And what does that have to do with what we're discussing? None. Your system approach here at this point, I'd sum up about two sentences: "We'll take the money and you don't ask what we're going to use it for." And that's what you call a system. And that's it. Instead of admitting that this is the case, you are in need, and you need to do some more financial magic and use more money for unnecessary spending by the state. I mean, 140 billion. you will have higher incomes and are unable to reduce the deficit. You're not capable. Well, from 50 to 40, you're gonna inflate revenue. Or you cut 10 billion. The expenses, Madam Secretary? That's when you cut it down. But if you just inflated your income, and that makes you so-called. reduced the deficit, so you did nothing about the state's expenditure, which is usual in this and last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Skopeček also with a factual remark, another, factual comment by Miroslav Kalousek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u26	So the first half of the reaction has already taken my colleague Stanjura. Indeed, my colleague, before you start fencing numbers and budgets, take a good look at who prepared the budget, then blame us for it. However, the other one. We have met many times not only here in the Chamber of Deputies, but also in several media. And there, Mr. Ambassador, you always blamed me for how the ODS government started saving too much after 2008 and slowed down the economy. So tell me what the deal is. We've been high-strung because we've been doing deficits that you've been showing us, or were we being too restrictive and we've slowed down the economy, what are you blaming me for in other performances? Only one thing has to be true. Either we were irresponsible, and because of us, we were deficits, or we were too restrictive, and because of us, the economy fell. You're fencing it, and you're using it as useful as you can. It is clear that this is not a rational and factual argument.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek and Mrs Věra Kovářová, also a factual remark. My colleague Jurečka, as I found out, is very patient. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u28	I only wanted to answer Mr. Chairman Michálek whether the government was normal or not. The government inherited a relatively high structural deficit despite the huge economic growth that was at the time, and it was a bubble. She consolidated it. When I talk about Mirek Topolánek's government, it consolidated him at almost 40 billion. annually, even though it was able to reduce the direct contributions by around 85 billion by the legislative changes adopted in 2007 in 2008. And compared to the former legislation, we have actually reduced taxes by about 85 billion. However, the 2008 budget ended up in a deficit somewhere between 20 and 30 billion, i.e. There has been a rapid consolidation and direction towards a balanced budget. Lehman Brothers fell in September 2008, the government fell in March 2009. Again, I would point out that the 2009 deficit if the government hadn't fallen, it couldn't have been 197 because we had prepared an amendment to the State Budget Act. So that's what the government was acting like. She acted responsibly, headed towards a balanced budget, but she inherited something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, also with a point of fact. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u30	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Mr Volný's words through Mr President. Mr. Ambassador, we certainly wouldn't dare lecture you, because we know that you are an expert in the Committee on Budgets. However, what is said here from a number of contributions is that at a time of economic growth it is not possible to have such a deficit. It may be our opinion, or it certainly is our opinion, but it is also the opinion that most economic experts say, and many of them are also advisors to the Prime Minister and Madam Secretary. Pulling graphs from almost ancient times is a good thing. It is good to recall the situation that was years ago, and it is also good to learn from it. And this lesson tells us that in times of crisis, we need to have something to draw on. And also because of the way those governments behaved in times of crisis, you were able to draw on them. Well, don't forget that. Also, do not forget that someday this economic growth will end and you will have something to draw on. But it may also happen that someone else will rule, and then he will have to pay the debts for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now, Mr Marian Jurečka, duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u32	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Mr President, members of the government, Madam Secretary. I will now allow those who, for example, will follow this meeting through television or cameras, to translate a little into Czech the argument that has been made here from the mouth of the Minister of Finance. She was very remarkable. In fact, the Minister of Finance tells us that we have good public finances, we have some of the best in the European Union, and that is why the government can afford to plan for the coming years, not just for next year, a deficit of less than CZK 50 billion. 40. Thank you for fixing it. 40 billion crowns. So, in other words, it is said here: thanks to the responsible management of cities, municipalities and regions, where the largest share of mayors and vice-mayors and municipal politicians for KDU-ČSL from all political parties, so because they are responsible for managing, so in this whole it looks good and we can therefore afford to plan these deficits. The paradox is that even Bohuslav Sobotka's government, the Social Democratic Prime Minister, was planning to move towards a balanced budget in 2019 or 2020, and it gradually logically reduced the deficits. I remember several meetings of the coalition councils, when the conflict of interest was the demands of some ministers under the ČSSD on the not-so-dramatic reduction of the deficits and against the counter-arguments of former government colleagues from the ANO movement, who said: we need to move towards a balanced budget. And it was sometimes a very hard discussion. And now all of a sudden, they say, because cities and communities are doing well, so we can afford to plan these deficits coolly here? By the time Andrej Babiš promised us here in 2014 at the latest in 2018, 2019 to have balanced budgets? And in 2017, when it went well and there was a surplus, he said it could work in the years to come. The paradox is that you're using the argument here and you're saying these cities and municipalities have big surpluses in their accounts, so we can afford the deficits. Well, at the head of the peloton is the capital of Prague, which has a surplus of CZK 9.3 billion in its accounts and for the first half of the year, that it is actually your mayor's inability to start investment in Prague in four years, which necessarily the capital needs, so actually in such a way as to rely on this, to argue - well that seems to me completely, forgive me the word, but ugly. I don't know if the mayor didn't have a cell phone on Andrej Babiš four years ago, he probably didn't give it to her, otherwise I can't explain it. But the whole point of your argument is just built really weird with the public finances. And it would be fair if you said to these people, "We're just gonna resign." We, what we promised four or five years ago, just don't pay anymore. The problem is that relying on surpluses in municipalities and cities simply won't work at a time of crisis, because incentives for kicking the economy, or finding measures to mitigate cases of crisis, unfortunately, cities and municipalities can't do much. This is the main thing in the government's hands through budgets and should have financial reserves. And unfortunately, you're not planning on it here. And by this law, you're actually contributing to the fact that things that were set up here conceptually in 1991, and unfortunately this state didn't take too many conceptual steps in the past, so in the case of the National Property Fund, some meaningful, logical concept was created here, so that revenues from privatisation, or income from those businesses and dividends were clearly, purposefully tied up for important strategic things, such as environmental burdens, financing of the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure and others, so it is breaking up, the money is being taken here. Yes, and the argument "we will meet those priorities within the various budget chapters of the resorts" at first glance may sound godly and logical, but at the moment when we have to make further savings, for example in the event of a crisis, the priorities of the resorts will logically no longer be able to fulfil, because they will have to meet the mandatorial expenses that - honestly I must admit - have grown significantly during our government, but you continue to grow disproportionately. So there are so many logical and rational arguments about the debate and how you bend those numbers and rely on the good management of municipalities and cities. And it's not fair to resign from good government and state management. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u33	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. That was the last one entered into the debate. Another colleague, Ferjenčík, is reporting for a debate from the point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u34	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to ask the Minister because she didn't respond to my contribution if she could guarantee me that the government wouldn't purposefully spill the money from that state-owned enterprise income fund into the state budget to manipulate the state's results.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u35	Thank you. Madam Secretary's coming forward. So still in the debate. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u36	I've been invited. Ambassador, I think it's obvious. I will repeat once again that this Chamber of Deputies will approve the state budget for 2019 and that will be clear there. So what's the purpose? It's just that the money gets involved in the cash flow of the state budget, just like it was in all the previous years. And I wanted to respond to Mr Jurečka, but I would have reached out to the debate for another hour, so I won't. I won't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u37	Thank you. If no one signs up for a debate from the point of view, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for the final word. Madam Secretary, no, the rapporteur does. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me describe the voting procedure, which is very simple in this case. The Committee on Budgets, as the Committee on Guarantee, discussed the press on 29 June 2018 and recommends that the Chamber of Deputies vote in the third reading on the draft bill in the following order. Firstly, vote on the motion to reject. If the motion for refusal is not accepted, second, vote on technical adaptations if they are submitted at third reading. I don't think they were. Thirdly, vote on Amendment A by Mr Ferjenčík. Fourthly, vote on the bill as a whole. I still dare to add the position of the guarantee committee to the amendment A by Mr Ferjenčík, and that is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u39	Thank you. If I have understood this correctly, although the debate was taboo, there was no legislative technical proposal. So we can say that we are voting on rejection, on one amendment and on the vote of the law as a whole. We will therefore decide on the procedure in such a simple way. Initiating vote number 48 and asking who's in favour of the procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 48, 183 for 153, against no one. We will therefore now vote on the motion for rejection. On request from the diaper, I will unsubscribe all of you. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I think the number of entries is stabilizing. We can therefore vote on the motion for rejection. That's the number 49 vote I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? [[Reprisals from the diaper that can't be logged in.]] Sorry. I now pronounce vote number 49 misguided. I'll check you out one more time, that's probably the easiest thing to do, and we'll try to make it right by signing up again with your I.D. cards. Please sign in. [[Odds from the diaper that you can't log out for a change.]] I'm gonna run that check-out one more time. I'm gonna ask because I can't unsubscribe from here... I think I'm gonna get replaced. [[With laughter. After a while:]] Please log in with your ID cards. [[The reports from the diaper that one can do it, the other one can't do it.]] I'm asking for control. [[12.00 hours]] Is it okay now, colleague? If it's okay, I'd like to check you out one more time. But I don't think that's necessary, because the number of entries is stable. We will therefore vote on the motion for rejection in the vote order number 50 when the vote order number 49 has been declared confusing. I have begun the vote and I ask who is in favour of the rejection. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 50. 177 for 81 Members present, against 94. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on Mr Ferjenčík's amendment. Opinion, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u40	The opinion is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u41	Madam Secretary? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] I've started a number 51 vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 51 of the present 177 for 61 Members, against 91 Members, the proposal was not accepted. This has exhausted all the amendments and we can vote on the proposal as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 178/2005 Coll., on the abolition of the Fund of National Property of the Czech Republic and on the powers of the Ministry of Finance in privatisation of the property of the Czech Republic, as amended, and some other related laws, according to the House press 130, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Act abolishing the National Property Fund]] I've begun the vote on order 52, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 52 of 178 for 94, against 82. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[A round of applause from members of the YES.]] Thank you to the Minister of Finance, thank you to the rapporteur and end with point No. 108. I shall now read the apology made by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Josef Kott apologizes from 12.45 to 15 hours for business reasons. At the same time, I will hand over the proceedings to the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-004-108.u42	Good noon. Initiating item discussion
