ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u1	86. Government bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, and some other laws / House Print 79/ - Third Reading I ask that Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Constitutional Legal Committee, Member Zdeněk Ondráček take his place at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 79/3, which has been delivered to you on 23 May 2018. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House press 79/4. I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Isn't that right, Minister? That's right. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will just briefly remind you that this proposal is primarily aimed at the transposition of the various international commitments that we have, and that there is some controversy in it, in particular, causing the introduction of a criminal offence of obstruction of justice and of instigation of obstruction of justice, and, in the rest, I will probably refer to the lively debate that last took place here at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u3	Thank you, Minister. I am opening a debate in which I have no written application. I'm asking if there's anyone from the scene. Yes, Mr Marek Benda is reporting for the debate. And I ask the House for peace! Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u4	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister in resignation, ladies and gentlemen... [[Objection.]] Sorry, I'm sorry, Prime Minister, he's no longer in remission. My mistake, it's designed. I'm sorry. I was wrong. I would not like this item to go unnoticed by the Chamber of Deputies and, as in some way mechanically, as it is some European standard, or that it is some kind of transposition of international treaties that we are bound by, and that it is actually no problem at all. We had a rather fundamental debate about this at first reading. We had a major debate about this on the Constitutional Legal Committee. We called a round table on the bill, on which representatives of the academic community, courts, prosecutors, lawyers of the Czech Bar Association, the Union of Defenders and others were on it. And it really seems that there is one very fundamental and fundamental problem, and that is the Minister of Justice now mentioned. It's like a noble paragraph, like a paragraph that looks like - so no one in this country would want justice to be thwarted, that's something really ugly, and we wouldn't want that. At the same time, however, a paragraph that is extremely dangerous. Tonight, five years have passed since the memorable intervention at the Office of the Government, from which we are left with untaxed purses. Tonight, five years have passed since the intervention of prosecutors who have changed the political system in the Czech Republic, who have demonstrated to us that it is possible to listen to the Prime Minister of this country with total impunity. When Američan do something like this to the German Chancellor, it's a big hello, and they don't even publish that. Whereas here, the prosecutors think that they really, especially the Olomouc part of them, that they can do whatever they want, that they can publish what they want, they normally put it in the papers - and in five years we have nothing out of it. We don't have a final judgment. For about a year now, we've had ANO leaders coming here and telling us how a purposeful game is to prosecute the Prime Minister of Design. Maybe, maybe not. However, it is again under the authority of the State's Attorney. At the moment, in the Chamber of Deputies, in addition to the story of the Prime Minister and the President of the Faltýnek Club, we had two other extraditions for prosecution, namely Mr Svoboda and Mr Růžička. In either case, the Chamber of Deputies has not given consent to extradition because it considers matters to be much more complicated and problematic than what part of the prosecutor's office is portraying them here. And in this situation, when I really think that a significant, if not overwhelming part of politicians have doubts about the functioning of the prosecutor's office, doubting whether the system has completely lost its grip on us and not doing exactly what it wants, the Minister of Justice - who, by the way, has been in office for almost four years, so he had quite enough time to prepare more fundamental amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure to balance the rights of the defense and prosecution. Nothing happened in that. Mrs Válková, when she joined the Ministry of Justice more than four years ago, one of her ideas, with which she joined the Ministry of Justice, was just the fact that she would like to enforce a new penal code. In the Code of Criminal Procedure, as far as I know, we haven't moved anything. There may be some expert conferences going on, but even the basic concept does not seem to be too clarified today. At the same time, we are in a situation where the Minister of Justice is under cover and masked. international conventions, so-called the agreements that bind us to something which, by the way, do not bind us to anything quite clearly, and may still be quoted here in the following speeches, comes with the idea that we will bring in a new crime of obstruction of justice. Mrs Válková tried to partially improve the proposal on the Constitutional Legal Committee, where the proposal was approved. I would say that there has been some improvement at least in that it is required that the evidence presented before the court be of a fundamental nature, if it is false, so that it can lead to criminal prosecution. But what I see as much bigger and more problematic is that paragraph 2 - seduction. Seduction to obstruction of justice. It's not, please, seduction to something else. Seduction to obstruction of justice. An incredibly vague formulation, which can actually be used for any communication, whether the defense or the prosecutor - but in this case, suppose that in most cases it will be a defense, because prosecutors do not keep up with each other - any case of communication of the defense with a witness, expert, interpreter and effort with him, for example. clarify in advance how he will testify, how he will act. This is becoming a new crime, which is not common in EU countries. At the same time, we got into a situation that this offence in paragraph 1. 3 and 4, where the rate of a particularly serious offence, where the rate is up to three years, or one to five years, is to be shifted to the category of criminal offences on which the listening technique can be applied with the consent of the court. There is a proposal from Mr Chvojka, who is proposing to release it. But unfortunately, on the Constitutional Legal Committee, this proposal failed, and I fear his fate in the House will be the same. So just to clarify the situation. We have a defense that may still have rights in criminal proceedings, and at the moment when there may be very vague doubts as to whether there is a situation where the defense attorney is trying to influence one of the witnesses, to influence one of the experts, one of the interpreters to testify favorably to his client, the prosecutor may come and ask for a wiretap, because undoubtedly, paragraph. 3, that is, a promise of benefit, one can think about it, or in paragraph 3. 4 benefits to myself, undoubtedly whether or not I'm doomed is a benefit. In this situation, we admit that there may suddenly be wiretaps of the defense in criminal proceedings, even in a number of cases by the same police officers, the same prosecutors who are investigating the original trial. So far, we haven't talked much about the Zadeh case on this House's land, which has been dealt with here in the last parliamentary term and is being dealt with again today. I don't want to comment on the case as such. I don't know who's right there. I don't know if the person in question has committed or committed anything. Whether he's a really big fraud or an honest man, and I'm actually completely indifferent. But it proved itself in the last parliamentary term, and there was a repeated session of the Commission on wiretapping, constitutional law committee and other bodies that there was a violation of the rights of defence, that there had been wiretapping of the lawyer and the accused, that these wiretappings had been taken and entered into the file. The part of the file that justified the connection. There were disciplinary proceedings both at the prosecutor's office and at the police with very questionable results. [[12.10 hours]] What do you think we're in today? Although this had happened in the last parliamentary term, I felt that at least the authorities that should be involved in this matter would be more careful. It turns out that the case continues, that the defendant's phones will be broken, and that everything that was taken out of those phones, which was found on those phones, including, of course, communication with the defense, is provided to all those involved in criminal proceedings. That's the real situation we're in today. And here the minister comes up with the idea that, because of the very vaguely formulated obstruction of justice, we will admit, because maybe someday, a lawyer, a defense attorney, a prosecutor, someone involved, accused, another criminal or even a civil action party who commits fraud by presenting false evidence, so in this part of the seduction, we will admit that it will be possible to listen to the defense. I consider this to be a major intervention in the whole concept of criminal proceedings. I could be here if one of my colleagues doesn't do that, so I guess I'll be forced to read to you - I know the Minister doesn't like me completely, because he's already been through this with me once, when he's presented us with experts, there are times when we need to talk long enough to stop something bad from going down on this earth. I may then be forced to read the opinion of the Czech Bar Association, a rather thorough analysis that points to the problems, but I have been trying to formulate them in my own words at the moment to make it clear to all of us how dangerous the situation is. The fact that, of course, the amendment proposal contains a number of things that are absolutely problem-free, we have never proposed rejecting it, we have only made a hard effort to push through the constitutional law committee, and we will try to push through here in this House, too, so that these provisions, which concern precisely obstruction of justice, which concerns seduction - and there I point out that this is a seduction to an act that has not itself been or has not become a crime, are justified by the Ministry of Justice, virtually. even almost exclusively prosecutors - the Ministry of Justice says: Well, we wrote this because we are bound by international conventions, we have other states where they have it in some other form, and we could use it. And then the D.A. walks and says, "Well, please, it happened to us that the witness came to testify that he wanted the defense attorney to influence him to falsely testify." The witness didn't testify, which means the main crime didn't happen, so there's no action-sorry, and that means I can't keep out the criminal defense attorney. And we need to invent a paragraph so that we can outrun such a defense attorney, even if the main crime didn't happen. It's an absolute exception to having a seduction as a crime. It's only in three cases, and those in themselves are impunity. The penalty is seduction to suicide, that's a felony, because I can hardly judge the original person there, but I can judge the instructions, and two more crimes. I'd be extremely careful about that. I recommend that we do not finish discussing this point today. I will propose that we interrupt him until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I think we have bonds and electoral laws. If you force me to read for another quarter of an hour, of course, I am ready for this, but I think that we could still approve bonds and electoral laws, and that it would be right for us to get to a state where the new Prime Minister will be here, who will, I suppose, bring some new government to the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and this minister will say to us: Yes, I want to take this path of major war with advocacy, a major strengthening of the powers of the state's attorney to question the defence and attack the defence and consider this path to be the right way. Then please let most of this House decide. But it seems completely wrong to me that it should be the Minister of Justice, who is at the moment in resignation, who makes it very clear that political and other reasons make him not want to continue to be a minister, and it seems useless to him to insist on that position, so that he should be crossed out for himself, that he has done something yet, that he has passed one more amendment to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, so it seems unnecessary to me to take such a crucial and dangerous step, which, moreover, I consider almost certain that he will return the senát to us, because it is indeed a matter that fundamentally interferes with the whole concept of criminal proceedings and the entire concept of the defence. So I would like to ask if it could then be voted on to interrupt this item until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We'll go back to him, but we'll go back to him if possible with a new minister who might say, "Yes, I want to go this way," or "no, I don't want to go that way." I consider it extremely dangerous, I consider it a journey that really strengthens the position of prosecutors and police over the peace that the Czech Republic, the accusations, the defendants and the defense itself would deserve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u5	Thank you. This is a procedural proposal, so we will vote without debate. I've already summoned colleagues from the lobby. The proposal is to interrupt this item until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will decide on this proposal by the vote that I have taken, and I ask who agrees with the proposal. Who's against it? It's a 222 vote, 181 logged in, for 64, against 80. This proposal was not adopted. A point of fact - Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I would just like to try very briefly, because I have two minutes to explain why I do not think that this proposal, which, by the amendment adopted by the Constitutional Committee, would have made significant changes, that it is a threat, as my previous speaker, Mr Benda, by your means, Mr President, would have suggested, or even repeated several times. For one thing, he probably didn't have time to say that in Section 33 of effective regret, the possibility of extending precisely for the crimes at issue here, perjury, false testimony, false expert opinion, false interpretation and obstruction of justice is, that is, when someone declares at a time when the consequences of the harmful act could still be prevented, for example, by submitting a false document, but this also applies to the seduction that has been repeated here several times as the most dangerous form, so nothing will happen, it is impunity if we approve it this way. Plus, we know someone was trying to give a false opinion. I and I think that all of us here in this room have met many times with the fact that false documents are being submitted, false opinions, expert opinions, which you obviously see at first reading that they are being processed unilaterally, objectively. This is exactly what should be allowed to be affected by the amendment to obstruction of justice, which is also in the very name, and at the same time it would be a possible edge for criminal repression, as Mr Benda spoke of it through your means, Mr President, the possibility of using the institute of effective regret under Section 33 of the Criminal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u7	Thank you. President Michálek, with a point of order. The real ones are first, Minister, I'm sorry. After that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u8	Thank you for the floor. So, my colleague Benda here gave his speech when he actually told us that if an attorney comes to a witness and tells him to make fake paper and present it to the court, it's not supposed to be criminal. I'd like to ask, what are we supposed to do about it? What is the ODS recipe for lawyers who go around the witness and invite them to prepare forged documents, create fictional invoices, with which they can lure money out of entrepreneurs and so on? I think that the problem is serious and that we should hear some alternative solutions. So if it's not a crime, it's supposed to be allowed, if we say it's not illegal, then, of course, the lawyers are going to do it, because if they do, they're going to get an advantage in the dispute, which is what they're paid for by their client. And if they don't, they won't get hurt, and they'll get the reward from their client anyway. So money always comes out of it, and it becomes basically the rule that our justice system works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u9	Seriously, Mr. Secretary. Then Mr. Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u10	Only through Mr President to my esteemed colleague. I don't think there's anything to wait for. I think this thing is clear, and it's been discussed enough. You really have a chance, and you've done it a couple of times, and you're gonna do it again in a little while, and you're gonna read us something here for 40 minutes. And you're gonna be heroically defending something. What will you defend? You will heroically prevent people who are trying to get the court to decide on other people based on false information. Based on the lies and fraud that someone deliberately brought there for this purpose. [[A note from the diaper.]] On purpose, yes. If it feels like something... like people who need to be protected by heroic reading some 40-minute text, protect them. I wish you good luck. I'm going to listen to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u11	Mr. Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u12	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would respond to my colleague Michálek. I'm sorry he wasn't at the seminar that the Constitutional Legal Committee did on the matter, where there were Supreme Court officials, the Supreme Administrative Court, where there were advocacy representatives and others. Almost all - with the only exception of one person - the judges said it was useless. In many cases, it only complicates things and makes things worse. In civil proceedings, and we know that we have such a statement from the highest courts, the court cannot be deceived in this regard. The court must be able to know when false or false evidence is presented to him. And the moment I enter a civil trial by starting a criminal trial for some so-called false evidence, I'm just gonna complicate the proceedings, prolong the proceedings, wait for him. But that's not what I've been talking about most of my speech. The Minister here is making me look like an idiot who wants to defend the right to submit false evidence. First of all, I think the accused in criminal proceedings has such a right. And once again, we have been clear for a long time on the Constitutional Legal Committee that no one must be forced, even from the Charter, to testify against himself. No one must be forced to testify against himself. But what I've been talking about all this time is that you have a seduction to obstruction of justice and that you put this seduction in those parts where you're ready to allow wiretaps. And at that point, you're going into the development of criminal proceedings in a very strong way under some imaginary pretext, and you're starting to listen to a defense that your client is dealing with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u13	We have three more factual points. Mrs Válková, President Michálek and then Mr Ferjenčík. And then with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Chvojka and then duly logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u14	So just, Mr President, dear colleagues and dear colleagues, I was at the seminar, on the round table. I confirm that, apart from the state's attorneys, the judges were very reluctant to make the motion. And the restraint was shown by pointing out, firstly, that although the trial could be extended, they did not question it, and during the discussion it was also said that there are cases where false documents are actually presented in practice, expert opinions suffer from flaws, when we really doubt whether it was just gross negligence or deliberate action. And unlike - we were still discussing other questions there - that did not come out, at least I did not understand it that way, fundamentally against. I don't think they're all lawyers, because I've also talked to some of them. Whoever is fundamentally opposed, and as far as I am aware, is also the author of the amendment, which Mr Benda here defends through you, Mr President, is a member of the Bar Association, Mr Sokol. But since I have no evidence for this, I must say - I have heard, I do not know for sure, but I can imagine it quite well if I were a member of this union of lawyers, whom I support very much in my speeches, because I think he is doing many good things, so I would also try to process such a proposal, of course, because it facilitates the work of these lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u15	Thank you, too. Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u16	I must say that we talked about this issue, even though we were on a business visit in the Netherlands, with the High Representative of Justice, and the feeling that I had from the interview was completely diametrically different from what Mr Benda had. So I'm a little more restrained on this one. And if the Supreme Administrative Court or the Supreme Court thinks it's wrong, they'll give us a written statement. I think it was more of a restraining speech, which is that judges do not feel in a position to participate in the preparation of laws. I wanted to say one important thing - that the accused may have the right to lie in his defense, but I certainly don't think he has the right to urge other witnesses, experts and other persons involved in the evidence before the court to make false documents. He just doesn't have that right. If Mr Sokol thinks he has such a right, let him be elected here to the Chamber of Deputies and defend it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u17	Thank you. Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u18	Thank you for the floor. It's just, I find it unfortunate that my colleague Benda here is combining the seduction and the wiretap. 'Cause we think it's time for the seduction section to stay there. Because when an attorney comes in and starts walking around witnesses, no matter how they say it, it's not supposed to be okay. But on the constitutional committee, we would support the amendment that exempts the wiretaps from this, because it's pretty extensive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u19	Mr Benda and then Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u20	I have to respond to some of my honored colleagues again. First of all, Mrs Válková. A crooked expert opinion is already a criminal offence. That has nothing to do with it. This is already a crime that has absolutely nothing to do with this novel. Nobody's questioning that. Two. To pull out the name of the unpopular, or perhaps in part of this House of Unpopular Advocates Mr. Sokol, and to say, he is responsible, at the moment when the position of the Czech Bar Association is here, which he repeatedly sends to us, it seems to me to be a very special and non-standard procedure. So tell them they've chosen them wrong, that they're all morons, that you know better who represents lawyers. But to say that when ČAK sends us something, ČAK is not responsible for it, but the Union of Defenders and Mr Sokol seems to me to be a very, very special position. And we're really talking about how he's going to interfere with the rights of defence. I say that, of course, the right to defend the accused is fundamentally, fundamentally violated in this way. If you're not obliged to testify against each other and you can say to the court, "I wasn't at the time," because you're not obliged to testify against each other, and it's always based on the fact that you can lie, but when you put your diary in which you wrote it falsely, and you say, "I have a written meeting with Mr. Vopička here," and by chance, the court will believe it, it's for prosecution. Derived. That seems like a very special procedure to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u21	Mr Blažek, then Mr Klaus, then the Minister - factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u22	Hello, thank you for your word. I would just like to remind you that the criminal proceedings are that you have mostly an individual who opposes the entire state machine. The machine is armed, pretty well paid. And what's being prepared here actually means that the individual until it's accepted, for example. This vague formulation, which is proposed here, so, of course, to prove his innocence, he sought to find such witnesses who would simply speak in a way that suits him. What's wrong with that? That's normal. I'm turning to the YES movement now. Prime Minister, please don't get upset because I'm not here to attack. It was you from the YES movement who talked for hours about whether or not those prosecutors and the criminal machine had too much, let's say, power. And now you want to add another crime that's completely vaguely formulated. The second richest man of this republic, even the Prime Minister, Babiš is accused, investigating some other things about him and he now to fear, for example. When it comes to the bonds, I almost gotta find some connoisseurs. They're gonna be afraid to make some assessments in favor of the defense. Because if I was sure that all prosecutors were normal and wouldn't take advantage of it, I wouldn't have to talk here, but the reality is completely different. And especially - and I hate to say it as a proud Moravan - especially in Moravia, we have a few prosecutors who will take it their way and use it and use it. And I don't want the experts to be afraid to make expert opinions, I don't want the witnesses to be afraid to talk to the court, that again some lunatic from Olomouc, why not say it differently, especially today, he's gonna drag me on for things that have been normal so far, and I'd like them to stay normal. That's all. I really ask a strong government movement to think about whether this is really where you want to judge criminal proceedings - in favour of strengthening prosecutors. [[Time warning]] There's no time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u23	Mr Klaus and four others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u24	I would respond to Mr. Ferjenčík, who said here when the defense attorneys are trying to convince these people to testify differently than they did. This is where I would like to explain that just as it happened, that's what the court decides. And the two parties, the prosecutor is trying to prove that the crime happened, and the defendant is trying to prove that it didn't happen. They use different witnesses to do that, and it's a court decision. So a prior assumption that someone who stands trial is a criminal is wrong. You've shown here, this party, that every businessman is a dirty suspect, a moment ago in the EET laws, and now another majority here is trying to show that every dirty suspect is already a criminal who has no right to lead his defense and has to be constantly monitored, eavesdropped so that he can't lead the defense. Both are very bad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u25	Now the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u26	Thank you, very briefly, so that there is no misconception. We've said it here before. The defendant really has the right to lie before the court, but he certainly does not have the right to submit false evidence or to obtain it or otherwise to ensure it and to mislead the court. He's never had that right, he doesn't have it anywhere in the world, and if anyone thinks he has it, they're deeply wrong. But I understand it's a bit of a bad day to discuss this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u27	Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to my esteemed colleague, Mr Benda, who said that this amendment does not concern experts. I would like to point out that this is not the case, that the introduction of the new Section 347a Obstruction of Justice is also part of the amendment, which in paragraph 2 affects the seduction of a false expert opinion. It's really necessary, because in your current form, as you've already talked about it, the action is participation. That means who's directing someone else to give an expert opinion, it's possible if the crime is completed or if the perpetrator tries to do it, the main perpetrator. It's only then that the instructions are criminal. So I think there might be a point to that, too. If you could please correct me, but it's mentioned. That's point number one. And secondly, it also covers those cases that are currently not solved, such as those forged documents, invoices. And there really isn't enough to say that the court will know if the evidence is faked if there are no responsibilities to the legal consequences. It just doesn't solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u29	Mr Mr Výborný in fact, after which Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u30	Thank you for the floor. So I wanted to respond to Mrs Válková through you, Mr President. Well, she's not here anymore, but I find it rather unfortunate to put some kind of factual, professional debate on the line that some particular lawyer is behind it. We can all think what we want about doktor Sokol, but that thing is different. And who was present on that round table in the constitutional law committee knows that there was far from a consensus from the professional public present on access to such a newly defined crime. Even there was no consensus at the level of individual Supreme Court judges. There were also completely different approaches. The question is, therefore, whether we really must at this point - and I will then, if necessary, comment on this in a debate with greater time - whether we must be in a hurry at the moment and, in the case of a standard that is obviously transpositional, give it such a fundamental thing that will interfere with the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u31	Thank you. Mrs Válková is not here, so she is failing her application. And please, Mr Benda, who is the last one so far with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I only have a brief response to Mr Michálek. Well, yes, most crimes are criminal in the instruction manual or in the helper only when the crime occurs, virtually. when at least an attempt is made - preparation in these cases is not an option because there are too low rates - when at least an attempt is committed or the offence has happened. And it's for very good reasons. Not every lead to a crime, unless there's been an attempt on the crime, it's supposed to be a felony on its own. And here we are getting into this situation, which is really comparable only to the other facts of the criminal code, that we say, "Instruction itself is a criminal offence without attempting to commit the main crime." If an expert's opinion was submitted, of course it is a criminal offence, and in terms of action-sority it is attached. But if it didn't happen, then the degree of vagueness is really dangerous. Haven't we all read Perry Mason? Please, nice. Haven't we read about the preparation of the American trial? Haven't we seen ten cases in the Czech Republic where police officers and now the state power accidentally leads by giving only a few photographs or giving a few scent samples or something like that? That's what happens in a criminal trial. I'm just checking to see how the witness's gonna testify. And I'd be crazy - every decent lawyer says: I'm not gonna put a question in court that I don't know the answer to. [[Time!]] Now all of a sudden, say it's criminal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u33	Thank you. That was the last point of fact. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Chvojka. And Mr. Výborný is duly logged in if the application is in place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Favorite law, non-preferential law... It doesn't matter. I simply applied properly to the discussion, and there were about 20 factual points before me. The question is whether or not to amend the Rules of Procedure in this regard, because three quarters of what I wanted to say has already been said, especially by my colleague Benda. I would like to lobby for my amendment, which I presented last time at second reading. My amendment somehow specifies, first, the deed of obstruction of justice and completely removes the institute from the seduction. And I would like to add to what I did not say last time, although mentioned by my colleague Benda, the repetition is the mother of wisdom, and maybe it will also testify about a certain broader approach of the Chamber of Deputies in this term of office to legal secrecy, virtually. to the obligation of confidentiality, which is basically one of the greatest obligations, but the most essential duty of every attorney. This means that I do not like the newly established fact that such serious crimes are one of them, and I do not think they are one of them, for which special means can be used in criminal proceedings, that is to say, means including the use of wiretaps, and it can very easily happen that these funds will at least be legalized by listening to the communication between the defendant and his lawyer, which I think is unworthy and rejected. This is all the more true of the proposed provision of paragraph 2, namely that of the already mentioned seduction, which is not introduced in any of the traditional systems or in Slovakia. In fact, it is not true that the very term "seduce" would be sufficiently defined by the caselaw, on the contrary, almost anything can be regarded as it, including, as the comment states, the emphasis on the positives of such a procedure. In the eyes of the prosecution, therefore, it may be any reference to the agreement with the expert whether he is willing to assess the case of the expert, including, for example, another possible point of view, and the like. The preventive functions of the criminality of such conduct will therefore, unfortunately, lead to the intimidation of persons involved in the proceedings, so that they are not too active in the proceedings, rather than to discourage the conduct itself. For these reasons, which could be further and further divorced, but I do not want to repeat some things, I therefore consider this amendment to be adequate and I think that the whole institute of seduction should be removed from the amendment. I would also like to point out the conclusions of the European Court of Human Rights, which perceives the legal obligation of confidentiality as part of the guarantees of the right to respect for private and family life pursuant to Article 8 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which can only be intervened for fiscally defined reasons under Article 8 (1). 2 of the Convention cited, only if necessary in a democratic society. The interpretation is quite clear here. Communication with a lawyer is an intervention in such a right, while the court repeatedly rejects in its caselaw the argument that the legality and consistency of the eavesdropping order with Article 8 of the Convention results from the very fact that they were issued by the court. I keep - I repeat - it must be examined whether it is necessary in relation to the lawyer and, in principle, in relation to all his clients whose conversations have been recorded, whether it was a means of democratic society and whether an appeal is therefore necessary to examine or, where appropriate, completely exclude whether these elements comply with the general procedure laid down in Section 88 and the subsequent criminal order, is more than debatable, even with regard to the case already mentioned, respectively. On the latest development of the Zadeh case, when the judge not only excluded information that was not related to criminal prosecutions from the file, including information from the private life of the lawyer, but unfortunately left in it all the communication of the defense with the client with the reason that distinction between the data obtained from the wiretapping is not possible under the law. So, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you once again to support my amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u35	Thank you. Now a few more excuses. President Stanjura apologizes between 14.30 and 17.00, Prime Minister from now to the end of the day for reasons of employment, Minister of Transport from 14.00 to the end of the day for reasons of employment, Minister of Health from 14.30 to 16.00 due to urgent work issues, Mr Gazdík from 12.00 to the end of the day for reasons of employment and Mr Dolínek from 12.00 to 14.30 for health reasons. So many apologies. And now two facts. I beg President Michálek and Mr Ferjenčík after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u36	Thanks for the word. I wanted to ask my esteemed colleague Chvojka if he could elaborate on the idea that a person who would ask an expert to assess the matter from another point of view would be criminal under this provision, because, as far as I know, another point of view is not synonymous with presenting evidence that he knows is forged or altered in his intention to be used as a genuine one. This would actually help me understand your point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u37	Thank you. Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u38	Thanks for the word. I have a question about the same subject. In my opinion, the only real enforcement of this provision will be if the expert rejects the lawyer and deals with it. The moment this gets out of the law, it's not really gonna work. I'm in. I'm in. I'm in. I'm in. I'm in. But the moment he comes to the expert's attorney that he needs to fake an opinion here and present it, the moment they agree to fake it, and they finish the crime, there won't be anyone there to announce it, of course. So there won't be any real way to prosecute it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u39	Mr. Benda, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u40	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, about what Mr Ferjenčík said. Well, that's true, of course, if they agree, they're both potentially prosecutable. If he does not agree, the expert can, of course, speak to the case before the court and say, "A lawyer or a prosecutor or any other party to the dispute has tried to influence me in this way," and it will undoubtedly have some effect on the court. What we're talking about is not a trial we're talking about that can be affected. We're talking about whether there should be any criminal proceedings, any prosecutions that have absolutely nothing to do with the original court, the original court doesn't even know anything about it. He doesn't know. And besides, the wiretap stays there, even though I admit that you voted to release them, but unfortunately they're still there, and I'm afraid they can stay there, or we'll see it at the vote next week or next week when it comes down to it. But the problem is, there's gonna be another trial going on here, another prosecution that has nothing to do with the original case, it's not gonna help him in any way, it's just leading to the criminalisation of people who maybe, and maybe even very possibly, tried to convince someone to testify, testify or interpret otherwise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u41	Thank you. I have no further factual points, so now Mr. Výborný has the floor, which is duly registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said here. I would certainly apply to what my colleague Chvojka said about the launch of the Institute of Seduction, because it really can be very dangerous. Of course, the key things are the wiretaps, because the inclusion of such an adjustment between, I note, serious crimes is far from it, among those offences where special means, including the use of wiretaps, can then easily become a tool at least to legalize the wiretaps carried out, the communication between the defendant and his lawyer. This is all the more true of the proposed provision in paragraph 1. 2, that is, the seduction. And I just want to point out that, in the reasoning of the petitioner, there are many times when the petitioner refers to experience from abroad or to various international conventions, which I will get to the point that such an adjustment is not introduced in any of the traditional systems, or in Slovakia, as repeatedly stated. Therefore, it is not true that the very term "seduce' would have been sufficiently defined. On the contrary, almost anything, including the commentary, can be considered a seduction to highlight the positives of such a process. In the eyes of the prosecution, it may also be any mention of an agreement with an expert whether he is willing to assess the case submitted to him, including, for example, another possible point of view and the like. The preventive functions of the criminality of such conduct will therefore lead to the intimidation of persons involved in the proceedings so that they are not too active in the proceedings. It will lead to a repel from the act itself. I don't think this is entirely reasonable. I just want to remind you about the history of the hearing. On 8 February this year, a transposition was submitted by the Government to the House, and finally, in the speech of the Minister of Justice, it was said that the translation basis was not what was added to this, and what was the merit of today's debate. As regards the reference to certain foreign documents, the petitioner refers to Art. 23 The United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime of 2000. And it should be recalled that nothing similar is required in this Convention, no penalty for the stage of activity far before the experiment, nor for the use of specific means of prosecution in the form of wiretaps, we will find nothing similar there. If the petitioner refers to the Statute of the International Court of Justice and its requirements, this is also possible, virtually. This is not based on facts, because the requirement of criminality concerns only the submission of evidence before this tribunal, not anywhere else. Therefore, for a number of these reasons, even those that have already been said here from the mouth of other fellow Members, I believe that the amendments that have been read at second reading should be taken into account, so that we can actually follow the pure transposition that has been given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u43	Thank you. That was the last application so far. Not anymore. A colleague of Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u44	I told you, Mr Vice-President, Minister, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, to go ahead and make bonds and electoral laws easier for all of us and that it would be more useful to wait with the Code of Criminal Procedure for the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, because there will be a chance to discuss it normally, to have the position of the new Minister of Justice, which, I suppose, at that time will probably still be without the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies, but I assume it will be at least proposed, and perhaps even approved by the President of the Republic, if the government requires the approval of the President of the Republic. And that we could finish this process next time. If that is not the case, then I have no choice but to use the five minutes to discuss the situation that the international conventions are actually asking of us. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 23 The UN International Convention against Transnational Organised Crime 2000, ratified by the Czech Republic in 2003, this sounds different and aims at completely different persons, clearly not directed towards the parties to legal proceedings or their representatives, but its aim is to prevent outside proceedings from being influenced, in addition only by this Convention of defined offences. [[Members in the hall are not paying attention to the speaker, they are having fun, they are noisy.]] I quote Art. 23 Criminality of obstruction of justice: Each Contracting Party shall take such legislative and other measures as are necessary to ensure that if they are committed intentionally...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u45	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador! Just because it is obvious that there will be no vote does not mean that we should not listen to the Member. So, please, calm down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u46	I don't insist you listen to me. [[Laughter.]] Sometimes I try to make a factual argument, I think I have tried quite honestly this hour, and I believe that I have convinced most of the Chamber of Deputies that at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, he will vote in favour of my proposals, or for Mr Chvojka's proposals, Výborný and others. But at this point, I consider it really unnecessary that we continue to discuss this point, given that we have three minutes left, and it is clearly not possible to even make the vote, so here I am quoting the UN International Convention against Transnational Organised Crime. [[Part of the Members leave the Chamber.]] So I can get back to the quote. And who wants to have lunch, please enjoy your meal! Punishment of obstruction of justice. Each Contracting Party shall take such legislative and other measures as are necessary to treat, if committed intentionally, offences as: (a) the use of a physical force, threat or intimidation, or a promise, offer or grant of an unjustified advantage in order to induce false testimony or to disturb the submission of evidence or evidence in the course of proceedings in connection with the committing of criminal offences covered by this Convention; (b) the use of physical force, threat or intimidation in order to disrupt the performance of official duties by the authorities active in criminal proceedings in connection with the committing of criminal offences covered by this Convention. [[13.00 hours]] Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent Contracting Parties from adopting such legislation as will protect other categories of public officials. Therefore, the Convention does not require any penalty for the stage of activity far before attempting or allowing the use of specific means of prosecution in the form of wiretaps. It is also not possible to invoke the status of the International Court of Justice and its requirements because the requirement of criminality concerns only the submission of evidence before that tribunal. To that end, I will just add that my colleague Michálek, Mrs Procházková and Mrs Levová were at the International Court of Justice last week in The Hague, where we were convinced by the Vice-President of the International Court of Justice that at the moment when the International Court of Justice finds out that someone before him is perjuring false evidence or presenting false evidence or other things, he is able to deal with this alone on the basis of the actions of the proceedings and does not need a national regulation for which -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u47	Well, Mr. Ambassador, you're done. It's 1:00 p.m., I'll break the meeting until 2:30 p.m., and I wish you a good lunch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-13-ps2017-013-10-008-086.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, it's 2:30 p.m. I'm opening the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. First of all, let me introduce you to the apologies that have been delivered in the meantime. Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes from 14:30 to 16:00 for reasons of work, Mr Jan Bartošek apologizes from 16:00 to the end of the day on account of the work programme in the region, Mr Jaroslav Holík from 15:00 to the end of the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies for reasons of work, Mr František Kopřiva for reasons of work - because of the adoption of the Commissioner for European Affairs Committee, Mr Milan Hnilička from 14:30 to the end of the sitting day for reasons of work, Mr Leo Luzar from 16:00 to the end of the working day, and Mr Marian Jurečka apologizes from 16:00 to the end of the sitting day for working reasons. Initiating item discussion
