ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u1	169. Oral inhalation Oral interpelations are intended for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the government. Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or the Government of the Czech Republic, then to other members of the Government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to point out to both the intersecting Members and those intersected by the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intersecting on the apologized Prime Minister, the interspersing on the members of the Government will follow. I now give the floor to Member Helena Langšádlová, who was drawn first to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš. Ambassador Věra Kovářová will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear absent Prime Minister, I appeal to you as President of the Security Council of the State on the annual report on extremism. This was usually published in previous years in May. Now we have September. The annual report on extremism for 2017 was to be discussed at the Council meeting of 18 September 2018, but this item was withdrawn. According to information from the media, the release of the report was delayed mainly due to comments from the Office of the President of the Republic. The draft report warns against the SPD movement in several places. Jan Novák, Director of Security of Prague Castle, criticized these passages in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and the report had to be revised. According to the media, it was necessary to rewrite parts and passages that deal with the movement of freedom and direct democracy of Tomio Okamura. At this point, it seems that the Annual report on extremism for 2017 will not be released until after the municipal elections in which the SPD is also running. [[14.30 hours]] Based on this information, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the following question. Is it true that the reason for withdrawal from the State Security Council was that the Office of the President of the Republic had comments on the SPD's evaluation as extremist party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u3	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister shall be excused and shall reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Mrs Věra Kovářová will perform with the next interview. Mrs Lenka Kozlová will also be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u4	Dear Prime Minister, we are in the second half of September and there is still summer weather almost without rainfall. Some good news, some less. Long-term but definitely bad news for everyone. And we should do something about it. A number of seminars and conferences, round tables, including the creation of new working groups, were held on the topic of drought, but still without tangible results. The drought problem falls within the Gesture of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, but I think it is such an important question that you, as Prime Minister, must insert yourself into it and keep the House of Deputies informed about the results of the government in this area. Dear Prime Minister, when will the government actually start to fight the drought not only in the media and implement measures to prevent and mitigate the effects of drought? What's the schedule for their acceptance? Are you prepared to inform the Chamber of Deputies of this effort regularly? Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u5	Yes, the Prime Minister will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Before I give the floor to another Member, I have some tickets here. Mr Martin Jiránek apologizes to us because of negotiations between 14.15 and 19.00. Mr Jan Richter apologizes to us from 14.27 to 15.30 hours due to the hearing. Mr Radek Koten apologizes to us from 14.25 until the end of the day. Thank you. And now, I beg Mrs Lenka Kozlová to present her intervention on the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u6	Good afternoon, everyone. Dear colleagues, Mr President, dear ministers, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, although he is not here, about one essential component of the education system of the Czech Republic. I mean, the planned component. I'm gonna talk about civic education. The President is certainly familiar with the history of the problem. But, as we have learned in the previous interventions, some Members are still getting confused on the subject. At the beginning was the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 4 December 2014 where, on the basis of a proposal by Mr Jiří Mihola and as a response to the seminar held by him, the Chamber of Deputies agreed on the basic principles of civil education, and that we want such non-indoctrinational competence of citizens increasing the issue. The preparation of the conceptual document was entrusted to the Ministry of Education, which failed, however, including the inappropriate concept of the House of Democracy as a centralised institution. Subsequently, the agenda from the Ministry of Education was transferred to the Office of the Government, respectively to the Human Rights Section. There was a working group, but the topic fell asleep. Only later, only in 2016, there was public consultation on the material, but it turned out that the topic is conflicting, all actors have a slightly different idea, and nothing really happened in the last parliamentary term. This year, the Office of the Government has already shown a significantly higher capacity for action and a consensual base document has been prepared, which would at least outline the basic bases from which it would come out further. [[Time, Madame.]] I see. [[Please finish the sentence.]] It is a basic document of the creation of the concept of civil education in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u7	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister shall be excused and shall reply in writing to you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. And now, please, Mr Feri, who will interpel the matter of Syrian refugees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, and I greet my colleague Feranc over there, who smiles at me. Allow me, Mr. Prime Minister absent, to ask you some of the questions that citizens are asking through me. The first question is Mr Michal Vašíček's question, namely why you misused the Dalajláma Lama quote. Why did you use a quote that never sounded like that? Thank you for your reply in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I will ask you for an electronic reply to the data box. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u9	Thank you, too. Another person who should interpel is Mr Jan Lipavský, whom I do not see here at this moment, so I will wait a while to see if he emerges. But other than that, his puppet and ghost interpellation is failing and we're moving on. I ask Mr Luzar, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the Government resolution on the discount. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Prime Minister, allow me to interpel you on the decision of the government on discounts on the rail road. This resolution, which will enable citizens under the age of 18 and over 65 to travel with a significant discount on transport routes, rail transport routes, is certainly welcome by all. But did you have an overview of how the railroad will be burdened by this government decision? I have to ask how far this decision has been consulted with the railway, I think with the railway transport operators. Because as a citizen of the city of Ostrava, which is regularly confronted with the reality of passengers on the most busy Czech track Ostrava-Prague I have to say that it is a tragedy. I will not talk about the display closet of České dráhy pendolin, but I will talk about international, stressing the word of international, transport connections to Slovakia, which are expresses that run regularly between Prague and Žilina. [[14.40 hours]] These trains have become trains that are permanently one hour late by this decision, because the connected wagons, which can handle capacity, are older data. They're not capable of achieving the technical speeds that trains are supposed to achieve. They have problems because they're not technically ready to go at this rate. This delays the number of people getting out and boarding at stops, where each train stop means seven minutes more train delay on the entire route. People stand in the hallways, the conductor doesn't pass this train because he just doesn't get over the train. The capacity of the people on those trains is causing the toilets to be closed because they overflow and it's not enough to empty at the stops at those stations where the stations allow this car to be shut down. It's just that the passenger culture has gone down hugely. And I would point out that these are international connections, and especially with regard to your nationality, I would like to remedy them. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u11	Thank you. And now again, please, Mr Dominik Feri, who will interpel in the case of cannabis regulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Prime Minister, another question. I quote: I wonder how the Prime Minister stands, namely his party on the bill of the pirate party and by the recommendations of Jindřich Vobořil regarding the regulation of cannabis. For me, this is a pretty conservative proposal that allows normal people to do what they like and at the same time significantly reduces the effect of the black market. Thank you for your answer and I will ask you, as with the previous question, both in writing and in the data box. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u13	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mrs Kovářová, who will interpel in the case of the social housing law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u14	Dear Prime Minister, in the current government's programming statement on social policy, the following is stated: In this area, we will start a dialogue with municipalities on the functional division of roles in the social field and, in agreement, we will propose such changes so that working with the client is really effective. This requires the creation of new necessary legislation addressing social work and social housing issues, including the definition of necessary investment, personnel and operational resources, including clear competences and rules between departments and between state, region and self-government. Cooperation between the State and self-government will be digitised and data shared. - So many programming statements from your government in which you commit to adopt the social housing law. A few weeks ago, however, you began to oppose the law on social housing, so I naturally wonder if there was an agreement within the existing coalition YES, ČSSD and KSČM, which does not go into this provision of the government programming declaration. Or was it your one-sided statement? Whatever the case, what will be the nearest steps of your government in this area? What's their schedule? Will you address the problem of social housing by legislative or merely non-legislative means? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u15	Thank you, too. The Chairman will reply in writing within 30 days. And please continue to interpel in the matter of Chancellor Mynář's security clearance. And Mr. Feri will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u16	Dear Prime Minister, my question is very simple. In its comments on our bill, which introduced the duty of security clearance to the level of top secret for the Chancellor of the President of the Republic, the Government stated that working in the Office of the President of the Republic requires only clearance to the level of confidentiality. Although I do not agree with this conclusion, I respect it, and I have asked the Office of the President of the Republic on the basis of the Act on Free Access to Information, whether the Chancellor has already requested to issue a certificate at least to a level of confidentiality, when his proceedings on security clearance have been so unacceptable for so long. Surprised for me was the answer that the Office of the President of the Republic does not share this conclusion, and according to it it is quite okay that the Chancellor has only a degree of clearance which is best documented by the fact that he is not granting it to the NBU. Prime Minister, the difference between the legal views of the Government and the Office of the President of the Republic on such a sensitive issue is striking the eye. What will you do to unite them? I don't like to recall in this context your earlier statement, according to which Mr Mynář and Nejedlý, let's say, characterally not entirely on the height and do business on the President's head. I trust you're not just going to stand by. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u17	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister will answer you within 30 days. And now, please, with Mr Feri's final intervention on lithium.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear absent Prime Minister, I would like to ask you - says citizen Marek Poskočil - where is the lithium that the ČSSD wanted to steal directly from us? You promised you'd mine it, and decent people would never have to work again, and deed, run away. That's, I suppose, a paraphrase. That's a promise you've never made. On the other hand, I wonder how the whole matter of lithium mining in the Ore Mountains, especially in the area of Tinovka, is evolving. Thank you for your answer and I will also ask for your answer to the data box.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u19	Thank you. By doing so, we have exhausted all applications for an interview with the Prime Minister. Now there will be oral interpelations on other members of the government. I call on Mr Vít Rakušan to give an interview to the first Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Interior responsible for the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Jan Hamáček, and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Mr. Lukáš Bartoň will be ready. Please note that Minister Jan Hamáček is absent. Mr. Vít Rakušan is not here either. We'll wait a little longer... It doesn't look like he's showing up, so his interpellation is failing. And I beg Mr Lukáš Bartona to present his interpelation to the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga, who also apologized.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u20	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, according to the available information, over a year, there has been a revision of the framework education programmes, the RVP, in the network of educational institutes of your ministry. Subject panels meet, studies and reports are made from the experts contacted. Unfortunately, both professional and lay public have been practically free of information about where the revisions are going all year round. For example, there are rumors about moving back to the curriculum that disturb schools that have learned to work with RVP and SVP towards quality and modern teaching. Revision of the RVP will affect the nature of education in the Czech Republic and the next generation, which is why the non-publicity of this process is counterproductive to citizens. On the contrary, they are an ideal place to open up a discussion about the future of Czech education to the wider public and over-party platforms. As was once done in Finland, which is referred to by many today, and as most of the parties say in the debates before last year's elections. Please answer: Do you intend to let the revision process of the RVP run in the black box as before, or will you give the public the opportunity to enter the process? Will citizens be able to comment on the basic principles and the need for different skills for the 21st century and thus give citizens the opportunity to identify themselves with school and education at all? And a follow-up question. If you are planning to open revisions to the public, at what stage and in what time frame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u21	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. Before I invite another speaker, there's a note. He apologizes to us from 15 o'clock until the end of the negotiations for working reasons, Mr Kolovratník. And now I will invite Mrs Jarošová, who will interpelise on the concept of health and the network of nonprofit hospitals of Minister Vojtěch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u22	Dear Minister, I will start with a hospital in Litoměřice, which is preparing for rent by city councilmen and the management of this hospital, and now, fortunately, it is at a stage where the Office for Competition has abolished the concession procedure for certain errors, against which the hospital's management intends to appeal. It all started with an accelerated change in the legal form of the hospital from a contribution organization to a joint-stock company. She didn't start working properly, and she's already putting the hospital in the scent of another stock company that's gonna want to generate profits in shareholders' pockets at any cost. It's logical. Where there is a conflict between the economic interests of a private entrepreneur, humanity and ethics end. In the health sector, the quality of health care is often impaired and reduced. [[14.50 hours]] Three companies applied for the tender, one of which is Penta Hospitals. Thus, Penta Hospitals was named until April, when it quickly changed its name to a better-sounding Litoměřická zdravíckou akciová společnost, which was established for this purpose in April 2018 and further performs under this name and successfully masks the company Pentu. I've heard the citizens' opinions that it's a good thing Penta isn't there anymore. I think this is a completely scandalous deception of citizens, and that really bothers me a lot. Who will be responsible for the poor selection of the hoarder, whether intentional or by their own stupidity, if we clearly lack a law on the direct material responsibility of politicians? Is this a system to eliminate functioning health care? Because this scum is paid mainly by patients and actually all of us. How does the state want to guarantee health care when it can't actually influence the decisions of private individuals and hacks? Please, Minister, you plan to develop a health concept by creating a network of nonprofit hospitals, including regional, faculty and other strategic hospitals. [[Time, Madame!]] I see a network of, like, a hundred, 150,000 residents where the hospitals are going to be nonprofit, state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u23	Please stop and give the Minister some room. You will be able to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this interview. I think that even though it hasn't been completely completed, of course I understand it in principle. However, we need to see how the health system works. Health insurance companies are responsible for the availability of legal care. The Department of Health only controls. The Ministry of Health, of course, sets up its hospitals and then there are hospitals that are set up by cities, regions, and these hospitals are not really affected by the Ministry. We can't even intervene by law to tell who the hospital is to be rented to. That's why we have the authorities here. And, of course, if the Ministry interferes with this, I think it would be unconstitutional, because the authorities simply have those hospitals in their possession, whether they are cities or regions, and they treat them as they simply have a mandate. And for us, it's important that the care is provided. Health insurance companies are responsible for this, for the availability of time and local, and in this regard it does not matter if the owner is a state, county, city, private. That doesn't matter at all. Everyone has an obligation to provide care of an appropriate quality under the Health Services Act. All of this is defined clearly. And if the care is not provided somewhere, if time and local availability are not assured, then, of course, the Ministry of Health can take part, it can deal with it actively, but it cannot affect who is running a hospital. We don't have that authority. I say, from our point of view, it doesn't matter if the State is the owner or anyone else, it must ensure care as provided for in the law. That's the quality criterion for us. And if we're talking about a network of nonprofit hospitals, yes, there have been other proposals in the past. The question is, what hospitals should be included in this. This is, of course, the debate that has been going on here. Already here once was a proposal for Minister Rath, who annulled the Constitutional Court because there was a list of hospitals and the Constitutional Court said that it is not actually clear why this hospital is there and that is not there. So this is a big debate. Then there were various other suggestions, I think quite poor quality. She's one thing to say, of course, "I'm going to be a nonprofit hospital," but so can the Penta. Penta says, "we're a nonprofit hospital," and he's gonna run the money through some contractors. So it's one thing to show that we're a nonprofit hospital, and the other thing is the reality. Penta can run a nonprofit hospital or Agel, but then he's got a supplier that's gonna take the money away anyway, and you just can't protect it anymore. So it is simply important for us to ensure the timely and local availability of health care of adequate quality, which is responsible for health insurance, and if not, the Ministry can intervene. That's how the law is set today. Whether they should be nonprofit hospitals or not, yes, it's for debate, but I don't think it's all for saving Czech health care. We have to keep the state network of hospitals. These are hospitals directly controlled by the Ministry of Health, which, of course, can never be privatized, faculty hospitals and state hospitals that we establish, because they actually form such a natural network, they are not only in Prague, they are in Pilsen, Brno, Hradec Králové, and they are really, let's say, pillars of Czech health care that provide full-disciplinary care, super specialised. That's where patients always find the finest care. And, of course, then we can talk about cases such as the Šluknov Ridge - I see a Member over there - where the situation is undoubtedly complicated. We've got a hospital in Rumburk, Varnsdorf, but on the other hand, the county has to get back in. I know that, for example, there is a problem in the Ústí Region, and I think that the region should get in that direction and discuss it if the hospital has a problem, for example. some urban, and of course the city hospitals have a problem today, because for cities it's a burden, mostly it's basically vacuuming their budgets. I'm afraid that's the case, because the hospital is a heavy burden. They often have to overpay doctors today. I know they were offering about 200,000 chiefs in Rumburk, and they still couldn't find anybody. So it's very difficult to hold these little hospitals, and here I think it might be possible for the regions to start to help those small city hospitals. I think that's even the case with Litoměřice, it's also a city hospital, as far as I know. And, of course, keeping such a small city hospital objectively speaking is not entirely easy. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u25	Thank you, too. Is the honourable Member interested in an additional question? He's not interested, in which case we'll move on. Mrs Maříková should now intersect Mr Brabec, the absent minister, on the mining of kaolin in Jeništov, Karlovy Vary. Madame is not here at the moment. We'll wait a little longer if he doesn't show up... It will not appear, in which case the interpellation is failing, and I am asking Mr Profant, who will interpelise on the data of the Czech Hydrometeorological Office of Minister Brabec, and Mr Výborný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u26	Dear colleagues, Sir absent Minister, the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute has key weather data. These data have a significantly wider use than the current weather forecast. They are important for event organizers, farmers, municipalities, scientists and can also be used for new applications, commercial services and support for digital innovation. The Hydrometeorological Office sells these data to state institutions and private entities. In the case of the sale of data to public institutions, it is only the transfer of funds from one chapter to another. They charge very disproportionate amounts to those private entities, e.g. non-profit organization Arnika CZK 20,000 for measuring from four stations about river level. This is disproportionate given that such measurements can be fully automated. Of course, such data are collected in other countries. Let's see how they are. Similar amounts are charged by Romania or Estonia, but Scandinavian countries or Germany have these data freely available. This will become particularly interesting in combination with the government's programming statement, which states: "All available and publicly available data generated for taxpayers' money must be published free of charge as open data without delay. This will encourage further development of services based on these data.' I guess I understand that with the government, and that's why I'm asking when you're going to publish this data. [[Time warning]] What's taking so long? Why are you defending the judgment? This is not a waste of taxpayers' money when -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u27	Ambassador, I'm gonna have to interrupt you. Finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u28	And what part of the income of the Czech Hydrometeorological Office comes from other public institutions or companies owned by them?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u29	Thank you. And now, please, Mr Výborný, who will interpel on the revision of Mr Plaga's graduation exam. Mrs Nevludová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues. I would like to interpel the Minister of Education on the subject of graduation exams and its revision. It is known that at the moment the revision of the current form of the graduation exam is being considered, especially in relation to what is originally planned, this is the question of compulsory examination of mathematics and so on. At this point, I do not want to ask whether the Ministry of Education also considers it important and conducts any discussions within its own department or with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs regarding the revision of the catalogue of professional requirements, namely the National Qualifications System, which is the information portal of the Ministry of Education, but also the National Occupational System managed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Specifically, I am wondering whether the Ministry is considering that some of the fields for which a compulsory graduation exam is now required, whether this would have been changed in these fields so as to return the weight of the graduation exam, which at this time is significantly devalued. Let me give you a specific example. The cosmetics industry is now listed in the system with a compulsory graduation exam. To this day, no one was able to explain to me why a beautician should have a graduation exam. If this and similar other fields were to be deprived of this obligation in the National Qualifications System, I believe it would help the entire system. And maybe even then we could think about reviewing the current form of the graduation exam in another way. I therefore ask whether this is the direction of the Ministry of Education's considerations as to whether it has already developed or developed negotiations with other ministries in this sense, especially with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u31	Thank you very much for keeping time. The Minister will answer you in writing within 30 days. Now, please, Mrs Nevludová, who will intersect Minister Hamáček on the situation of the Opava Municipal Police. Mr Lipavský will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Minister, I will be contacted by citizens of the city of Opava who are not satisfied with the situation of the city police. The situation is so heated in the last today that 90 percent of city officers want to enter the strike alert on the grounds that they believe there is bullying and bossing on the part of the current leadership. According to the officers, such conduct took place both at the Director and at Olomouc Municipal Police, which was his previous assignment. Some of the officers are already in litigation on this matter. A recent check carried out by the State Labour Inspection Office revealed an employer's error in breach of paragraph 306 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v))) (v))) (v) (v)) (v) (v)))) (v) (v))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))) (v)))))) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v))))) (v) (v))))) (v))))))))) (v)))))) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 3 Labour Code, where the employer as a territorial self-governing unit within the meaning of paragraph 303 (1) (a) (ii) of the Act of Accession. Article 4 (1) (a) (f) The Labour Code has not been issued by the Conditions of Employment and that some employees are in the wrong grade for a long time. For the city of Opavu, this error will represent a sum of several hundreds of thousands in wage supplements. The employees involved drew the employer's attention to this fact, but no corrective action was taken. This situation was discussed on Monday 17. 9. 2018 at the Opava Council, when the mayor suggested an analysis of whether the city of Opava needs the city police at all. Mayor Opava considers the matter to be politicized. However, I think that if the Labour Code is violated, politics must be set aside. As a gesture of self-government, I ask you whether the Ministry of the Interior is able to conduct an internal inquiry into compliance with the Labour Code and if it thinks that a 70,000 city should have a city police force set up. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u33	Thank you, too. The Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. Please, Mr Lipavský, who will interpel in the matter of the Ministry of Puppets and Spirits. Mr. Feri will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u34	Mr President, dear absent Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I intercede you as Minister of Foreign Affairs and Chairman of the ČSSD in the matter of the ever-increasing personnel situation at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Or maybe it would be useful to say, given the present miserable state of things, the Ministry of Puppets and Ghosts. This comparison is more than deserved for two reasons. Thanks to your incompetence, we still do not have a full minister and the newly announced candidate is a kind of light version of Miroslav Poche. And we are now learning about your positive practices in occupying the positions of specialized Deputys, which have the effect that these key positions remain vacant. Poche's assistant Tomáš Petříček is to become the new nominee of the ČSSD for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We know two things about this man. He comes from the ČSSD cell in Prague and, like his Master Poche, who has been following for ten years in his political career from supervisory councils in Prague to assistants in the European Parliament, under Poche's baton he has assisted himself as a candidate for foreign minister and remains completely faithful to his Guru Poche. The situation at the State Department may soon remind the ventriloquist with the puppet. Officially, the smaller version of Poche, puppet Petříček, will be actually controlled by Master Puppeteer Poche, who will determine the political agenda and make all the decisions. In addition to the controlled foreign minister, there will probably be no one left at all under the baton of the ČSSD in Cernín Palace soon. At this point, two key positions of the Vice-Presidents remain vacant. That Jakub Dürr is leaving for permanent representation in Brussels and Ivo Šrámek to the OSCE in Vienna was known a long time in advance. Therefore, selection procedures were announced in due time, allegedly even very good candidates were selected. However, these tendering procedures have been cancelled for some reasons. And do you know who cancelled the selection procedures, Mr. absent minister? It was you. And I'm asking why. Would the candidates be too competent or too loyal? [[Time warning]] And to whom? The current situation is completely unsustainable. [[Please complete the sentence]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u35	Thank you, too. We have a note before the other Members speak with their intercession. We apologize to Mrs Válková between 14.30 and 18.00 for working reasons. I now ask Mr Feri, who will interpelise on the strengthening of active advances. Mrs Kovářová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear absent minister, allow me to address a citizen's question, namely how the commitment to strengthening active advances is fulfilled and what the concept of building and functioning is. Please reply in accordance with both the Rules of Procedure and the Data Box. And all the data you're going to give me in this matter, I'd like it in a machine-readable format. Thank you very much in advance for handling this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u37	Thank you, too. The Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. Please, Mrs Kovářová, who will interpel in the case of the social housing law of the Minister Maláčová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u38	Madam Secretary, I know this is a bit of an inherited monument after the previous Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and perhaps even a little bit older, but let me ask you what other steps you are planning in the social housing agenda. According to my information, the preparation of the new law on social housing has been abandoned, although the commitment to its adoption is contained in the Government's programming declaration. Madam Secretary, what will be your future actions in the area of social housing? If the government does not really go through legislative channels, what measures do you plan to implement and within what time frame? And let me ask you one more question about your department. Are there any other parts of the programming declaration that have been, at least, overcome by development, as is the case with the Social Housing Act? Which ones are they? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u39	Thank you, too. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u40	Madam Members, honourable Members, as regards the Prime Minister's statement that there will be no social housing law, we can agree with that statement at the moment, but in a slightly different context than that mentioned. Nowadays, the housing situation is very critical, I think we can all agree on that. Today, almost everyone has a problem finding very decent housing at a reasonable price. We have a shortage of apartments for young families with children, for seniors, for disabled people, excluded localities have a number of problems that bother them from another perspective, which means they need help with the devastated apartments and hostels. Prague is being plagued by Airbnb again. [[15.10 hours]] That is why we believe in social democracy that the law on social housing, a purely so conceived law, is already outdone, and what the Czech Republic needs is somehow grasping the question of housing, its availability and quality comprehensively. That is why we will strive for the law on available housing, or the law on housing - the name is actually inferior, but it is about ensuring a legal framework for this whole issue. As you know, housing is within the competence of the Ministry of Regional Development, and at this point the Ministry is preparing a concept or a strategy for housing. And once it's done, we have information, and we've had a few discussions about it in the government, once this is done, it should be in the order of weeks, and then we'll start having those discussions. Social democracy and, of course, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I will promote precisely the legal framework for the whole of housing, so that all these areas that I have named will find some solution in the foreseeable future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u41	I, too, thank you, and the honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u42	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I am glad that developments have been right to those who have said that all categories of citizens with housing problems need to be taken into account. I would like to ask whether, in the framework of the law on available housing or whatever you want, social housing will also be part of it and whether the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will cooperate with the Ministry of Regional Development. Because we think that social work for the socially needed ones, if you provide them with social housing, is very necessary and is not possible without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u43	Thank you, too. Madam Secretary is interested in a follow-up answer, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u44	Thank you for the follow-up question, that's right. In fact, we will strive to make the issue of social housing one of the many subcategories of the Housing Act or the legal framework on housing. And that's exactly what you're saying, the Department of Labour and Social Affairs will always try to get this whole thing dealt with comprehensively. This means that it is not only about housing as such, but it must be followed up by social work and also a system of benefits, so that the whole system is connected and functioning. So that's exactly the direction we want to take. But it's not just about a certain population, like I said. Today he has a problem with housing and middle class. We're talking about families with young children, seniors, disabled people, single mothers, etc. So we need to start building, I agree with that, and I agree with that, and social democracy welcomes it, but at the same time we need some clear developments. Those areas that are problematic, there is a need for inter-ministerial cooperation. And I don't think it's just the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but it's also the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of the Interior, etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u45	Thank you. We will move on to another interview, when again Mrs Kovářová will intersect Minister Hamáček on the issue of vote manipulation in elections. Mr. Feri will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u46	Dear Minister, I admit that the name of my interpelation sounds awful. But it is not out of my head, it is taken from an article on Novinky, where the local elections are referred to as elections which are supposedly the most risky given the possibility of manipulation. Do you share this distrust, Minister? And what will your office do to minimize the danger? What steps have you already taken, and what are your plans for the future? Do the measures under consideration also include the holding of elections in one day? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u47	Thank you, too. The Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. I now ask Mr Feri, who will interpelise on the state of the Czech orphans, Minister Maláčová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary present, thank you for being here, I very much appreciate it. It's not customary. Let me ask you a question from Mrs Marie Freibergová, who asks what is the situation with Czech orphans, virtually. how many children in children's homes are available for adoption. Of course, this has to do with the debate that has already been concluded in the House, but let us go to the very point where it is headed by the Prime Minister, i.e. deal with and more accentuate the situation, solve the problem of the situation of Czech orphans. Whether, depending on or in response to the Prime Minister's words, you have taken any further steps at the Ministry to improve the situation of Czech orphans. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u49	I thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question. As for the current statistics, for your information, at the end of 2017, which is the most recent issue, 38 522 orphans' pensions were paid in the Czech Republic, of which 37 956 were one-sided orphans and 566 were two-sided. But if you're asking how many children we have in institutional care, I suppose the question was headed in that direction, then I would first like to say what the concept of legally free children means, so that we can somehow escalate it. Legally available children are either those with whom parents have given their consent or the court has decided that the consent of parents is not necessary for adoption, especially because of the lack of interest of parents in the child. The third reason is that parents no longer live, they are the two-sided orphans, or for a large part, and the fourth reason: parents are unknown, for example, in children put away in babyboxes. When we look at the current statistics, legally available children currently have 600 to 700. Why am I saying this so vaguely? This is because these children are included in the register of regional authorities and there is no central record to deal with, given how we have these competencies set up, the total number. Overall, however, we have about 8,000 children in constitutional facilities, i.e. including the legally insane ones. So, as I mentioned, about 700 legally available, and the rest of the $8,000 are legally nauseous, which means your parents can't or won't take care of those kids. I would also like to say in this context, because the number is quite high, the 700 children, so I would just like to say, just for your information, that 393 children were adopted in the Czech Republic last year, especially in the age category of up to two years, and 614 children were placed in the long-term care of foster parents. In this context it must be said that today we still have 48 temporary foster parents, the other around 680 positions are occupied, which is needed, and the capacity of ZDVOPs, these are the devices that have to respond quickly to the placement of children, so there we have a spare capacity of about 30 per cent of the total capacity of 918 beds. I would also like to say in this context that it is necessary to realise that it is actually important in the Czech context, or those parents who, or the families who are applying for adoption, place a very strong emphasis on the low age of children. That's important. So the older the child, the less interested in the child. Another complication, if I call it that, is the health of the children. So that's another factor that decides.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u51	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u52	Thank you very much for your answer and I will take advantage of the opportunity to ask you how you evaluate or how you view the comments of some Czech foster-related politicians. This means whether, from your point of view, it is a sort of business, a profitable craft, let's say it's so easy, or whether you think it's a work of merit that deserves support. And, if any, if that's what your party shares, and if that's what the government shares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u53	I ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u54	So, of course, fostering, i.e. an institute that helps children who haven't had so much happiness in their lives to get back into some normal family life, which is probably crucial to all of us, from a constitutional facility, so it's a very valuable activity, very important. You must know that these weeks are underway so-called. weeks of foster care. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs organises a number of educational and information events on this issue so that the entire network of foster care as such improves and improves it. So I see it as a key issue, very important. And if you are still asking my opinion on transformation, I believe that children, especially those young children, should not be in institutional care. That way, I really support the foster care network.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u55	I thank and please Mr Feri with another interview, this time in the matter of health workers, to Minister Vojtěch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, you, as well as the Minister, are also to be commended for the presence. Thank you very much indeed. And allow me to direct a question to you from Mrs. Kateřina. She didn't want me to say my last name because she works in health: Why doesn't the Minister of Health deal with the health crisis by motivating existing employees to stay in the sector, and why aren't new doctors being recruited? This is an absurd and unsystemic solution. Plus, we're gonna have to train the young people in the hospitals, but if they all run away, there's nothing we can do about it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u57	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer. And before I give him my word, I'll read the note. Mr Richter apologizes to us within 16 hours for business reasons. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u58	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question, but I cannot agree with him. I think we have to deal with both things. Of course, motivate current doctors and of course graduates to go to Czech health care, but at the same time we must see for the future. Unfortunately, the situation is such - and for that there are data, we have done very deep analyses on the basis of demographic development and medical population - that we are not able to do so with the current number of graduates of medical faculties, even if they all go to health care, to ensure the sustainability of the Czech health care, because the medical population is getting older and the number of graduates we now have is unable to replace it. This means doctors, as they will grow old and retire, we are simply unable to replace with the current number of graduates. And that's the basic problem. Sure, we also have to deal with those who are now undergoing or in the Czech health sector. That is why I have suggested, among other things, that next year, when it comes to salaries, young doctors, especially beginners, should be added to motivate them. They actually have the highest planned salary increase in doctors, of course, sisters, etc., but we're talking about doctors now. But as I say, we also need to increase the capacity of medical faculties, because the current number of graduates is not enough. It just won't be enough. Unfortunately, we're dealing with this now in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, I'd say five minutes to twelve, maybe twelve, maybe five minutes to twelve. The plan is as it was approved, it is an 11-year action plan to support medical faculties, when the faculties have actually received 135 miles in this academic year. In addition, in order to prepare, from next year they will receive about 700 million each year, total about 7 billion. CZK to increase the capacity by 15 per cent. But it's clear that before the doctor comes out, of course, it's gonna take, if he comes out, of course, after his undergraduate studies, six years, after his medical studies. But of course, it's gonna take another five or six years before the doctor's done. So it's clear that the measure we're doing right now will have an impact in just ten or eleven years. It's a shame that no one here in the past has thought about it, that no one has looked at the data as doctors age. And unfortunately, they're getting older, just like the entire population is getting older. We do when it comes to e.g. about the practical physician for children and adolescents, really the most seriously the oldest expertise. It's somewhere around 59 years old average. A practical doctor for children and adolescents on average is 59 years old, which is, of course, an enormously high age. And it's a threat to the future. If we want to do something about it, we simply need to raise the money, we need to increase the number of students. And of course, we need - and this is the second part of the action plan - to pay for those who teach those future doctors. Because if you look at the salaries of those who teach at medical schools today, they're about half, maybe not, compared to if the doctor is in clinical practice. Today we have a medic's average salary somewhere around 72,000. Crowns a month. Those doctors who teach, they have somewhere... 30 thousand. Maybe? That, of course, is a huge discrepancy. So it's clear that this is another problem and another threat that we have to pay the doctors to want to teach at medical schools and to be able to educate future doctors. So I think the question - I respect it, of course - is not entirely put with deep knowledge of the matter. In short, we need to support the medical faculties, we need to increase capacity, we need to pay the teachers so that we have a doctor in the Czech health sector in the future. And, of course, we have other things to deal with, whether it's a financial evaluation, that's clear, we have to look at a system of postgraduate education, where we are currently actually finalizing new educational programmes, such as. will be directed to the fact that a young doctor will be able to practice at district hospital level, that he will not be forced to go to a faculty hospital, which is also very important. [[The President draws attention to the time]] So we're trying our best to have a doctor in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u59	Thank you, too. The Member is not interested in an additional question, so please Mrs Kovářová, who will interpel in the matter of the state budget deficit, Minister Schillerová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u60	Madam Secretary, yesterday, following the Government's meeting, a government deficit of 40 billion was published in the press briefing for 2019. CZK, at a time when the economy is almost at its peak, and an investment plan of 122 billion. That's interesting in itself. But what interested me - and I think a number of mayors and mayors, as I see it from my correspondence - is your mention from the press conference when you said that if it were not for the recent increase in contributions to municipalities, the budget would be almost balanced. So, as far as I understand it, those evil communities are ruining your pretty budget. And so, with all due respect to your office, Madam Secretary, I think it's pretty stupid. Don't you think it's worth it for self-government, which, unlike the state, can do well, and the numbers clearly prove that if not apologizing, at least to make it right? Forgive me, but from the mouth of the representative of the state, who must manage such a deficit at an unprecedented time of prosperity, a similar statement to the address of the municipalities is unacceptable. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u61	Thank you, too. I ask the Minister for an answer. I'll read the note before he gets to the counter. Mrs Šafránková apologizes to us from 15.20 to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that it is before the municipal elections, I understand that there is a need to provoke wars where they are not, from the mouth of the opposition Member, but I will bring it to the right and I will state how I have meant my words. There's no way I'm in favour of twisting them like this. Listen to me from monitoring a number of my other statements, where I am talking about the budgetary determination of taxes and about this relationship between the state budget and the municipal budget. So first, a little bit in general. The draft state budget was drawn up in full compliance with the fiscal rule that takes into account the medium-term budgetary objective. We have a law on budgetary responsibility rules, and it implies responsible management of public finances. It results from European legislation and is the level of the structural balance, i.e. a net balance from the influence of the economic cycle, which should not be less than minus 1%. For your information, this year it's 1.1 %, next year we're planning about 1 percent. So we estimate that the general government balance could reach a similar value this year as in 2017, i.e. a surplus of 1,6% of GDP. [[15.30 hours]] For 2019, we predict a decline in this surplus to 1% of GDP, and similar developments should also record a structural balance that could move closer to a balanced value from around 1% of the current year to next year. The medium-term budgetary objective is therefore continued to be respected. Government finance debt will also develop adequately. This year we expect a debt of 33 percent of GDP, and next year it should fall below 32 percent of GDP. I have repeated it several times, and I will repeat it here, of course, once we start negotiations on the budget, what are the essential items of the state budget on the expenditure side. These are mainly higher pension expenditures - a record increase of more than CZK 900 per pensioner, investments year on year plus CZK 32.1 billion. CZK from national sources, in chapter MŠMT plus 28.6 billion, defence plus 7.8 billion, sport plus 2 billion, universities plus 2 billion, science and research plus 1.2 billion. Of course, despite the planned deficit, we will strive for a balanced budget, but not at all costs. Therefore, the priority of economic policy must be thought-out investment that returns manyfold in the future, transport infrastructure, research, technology, support for foreign investment. And, of course, we are counting on the planned budget, with an increase in the number of teachers due to the increasing number of pupils, we are strengthening expenditure on state security both in the Ministry of the Interior and in the Ministry of Defence department, which includes among others. expenditure on increasing numbers of soldiers. And now to the budgets, amnipalite. In recent years there has been a repeated increase in the tax revenues of local authorities, among other things due to the growth of their share of the so-called. the budgetary determination of taxes. Total tax revenue increased between 2015 and 2018 for municipalities by 32,1%, i.e. 56.3 billion. CZK, by 38.7 % for regions, i.e. 19.7 billion. Crowns. For 2019, an increase in the total tax revenue of municipalities is expected by 6,3%, i.e. by 14.6 billion. CZK, regions by 7,1 %, i.e. 5 billion. Crowns. In addition, the State budget envisages a high increase in the contribution of municipalities and regions to the exercise of the delegation of 10 %, i.e. more than 1 billion. I have repeatedly said - I have just filmed the Week in politics, I have been in various media several times this week, it is traceable in monitoring - I have said that we are managing in a common household of public finances, which includes state budgets, budgets of regions, cities and municipalities, public funds, public finances. These public finances, this common household, if you will, we will help ourselves with an expression that is close to us, manage the surplus. [[Time warning]] And I said that the RUD rose last year and that I am glad that I am glad that the budgets of cities and municipalities are growing - I am finishing the sentence - because they know best how to manage it. [[Please finish the sentence!]] So please don't push me with words that were related only to the numerical expression and expression of these total budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u63	Thank you. I'd like to ask the lady an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u64	Thank you for your answer, but let me point out that the answer to this question is that wars are being waged before the municipal elections and well from the mouth of the opposition MEPs, it is simply not good. You said we were in the same household. Yeah, so here we have two subjects. On one side of the city and the village, and on the other side, we're supposed to be standing here. The state runs a deficit of 40 billion. at a time of growth, municipalities think about sustainable development, think about long-term development, save on subsidies, save on larger investments, cannot take such large loans because they could be subject to budgetary responsibility, and in this spirit I think the municipalities manage. What I asked you was really what it said, and I have it from monitoring that it is one of the reasons why there is such a high deficit, and I am just repeating it and reserving myself against what you said. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u65	Thank you, too. Madam Secretary will ask for an additional answer? It won't. Okay. Let's move on. Mr Feri will intersect Minister Hamáček in Tibor Gašpar's case. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u66	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent minister, let me ask you a question from a citizen. What position does Mr. Tibor Gašpar perform on your team of advisors, and what led you to appoint him? Even to extend this question, allow me to use the last part of the open letter Transparency International: In light of these circumstances, we would like to call for a thorough explanation of why you have approached Mr Gašpar, against whom tens of thousands of people have demonstrated their remaining in the Slovak office. What reasons led you not to choose your advisor from a number of high-quality police officers and security experts with experience and knowledge of the functioning of the Czech and international police environment and at the same time not burdened with so many controversys? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u67	Thank you, too. The Minister will reply to you in writing within 30 days, and I ask Mrs Kovářová to interpel Minister Vojtěch about the lack of doctors in the countryside. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u68	Dear Minister, allow me to follow up on May's interpellation with you, and this is the problem of rural doctors, which is generally known and you are certainly informed in detail about it. Minister, I would like to ask you whether your pressure on health insurance companies has already brought some new results. What do you know about the use of grant programs for practitioners and dentists? What is the interest in these subsidies? According to the promise in response to my last interpellation, what financial increase for medical faculties has occurred since September, respectively. The beginning of the academic year? Thank you for your answer. Finally, I would ask, through Mr President, that colleagues from YES do not yell at me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u69	I, too, thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u70	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. Madam, thank you for your question. Of course, the situation is still very current, we are certainly still active with health insurance companies, although unfortunately it is not possible for objective reasons to get a doctor into some areas if we do not want to take them into irons and bring them there. But we are trying to really motivate, for example, in cases where selection procedures take place, which are held to conclude a contract with a health insurance company and are unsuccessful, so the insurance company motivates a doctor up to 30% by increasing payments compared to normal, which is very significant. It is still true that two grant programs are going, both for practitioners and dentists, which we have recently prepared and started. When I look at the data, it's roughly, I'd say, about 20 practical doctors for children and adolescents who have been granted the subsidy so far. I am looking at these places - Jeseník, Vyškov, Město Králové, Frýdek-Místek, Černovice, Orlová, Karviná, Chomutov, Soběslav, Kolín, Telč. [[15.40 hours]] There seems to be some interest in these subsidies. As far as dentists are concerned, that's where we started recently, as you know. We've already allocated three grants. It was Ústí-Střekov, Cheb and third I don't remember. Upper Cerekev. And if I have information, there are currently two additional grants for approval, which I would say five subsidies since May, when we started the program, after all, we had to for some time, we had to learn about it by the doctor, so it is not a very small number and it leads to the doctor being able to, or is expected to have at least 1,500 people in the patient file room, so a relatively large number of patients will get their dentist. Of course the situation is not ideal, we would probably lie to each other if we said yes, but as I say, it is not quite easy to get into some areas of the doctor. We can motivate financially, we have these subsidies, we have the opportunity, or health insurance companies, to increase quite significantly the remuneration for health care. As far as the medical faculties are concerned, as I have already responded to Mr Ferim, this has happened, and we have fulfilled this promise. Since September, medical schools have been given 135 miles. Moreover, which they should already have, and the government recently approved an action plan to support medical faculties, an eleven-year-old, where from next year it is already counted in the state budget, with faculties receiving approximately 700 million each year. Kč. There are clear conditions that will be controlled by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, which pays the money to the faculties. They must increase the number of graduates. We'll monitor the success of the graduates, of course, so that it doesn't happen that they pick up the applicants, and then they have to be fired, so of course we'll follow it. If that were the case, they wouldn't get the extra money, plus, of course, as I was talking about it, the money would go to doctors' salaries, so that we could have teachers who would teach those doctors. We try several of these steps, quite distinctive, accent and realize and see. I hope it has an effect. We believe that this will have the effect, but as I say, if there are simply areas where the doctor does not want to go at the moment, then there is only one option, and this, of course, is the project of Ukraine, or try to motivate a doctor who is from abroad, where the willingness of these doctors is sometimes greater. But, of course, it is a question of the fact that the doctors must pass the probation exam that we are now also changing, so that it is more acceptable, virtually. It wasn't easier, but there was a better chance they'd pass the exam. So we divide it into two parts with the fact that if he doesn't take one of the four, then the others will count on the next experiment. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] These are all the measures we are taking, and I hope they will have an effect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u71	Please, Madame, a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u72	Minister, thank you so much for your answer. And maybe I'd just add to the question of what you talked about in the end, about where doctors don't want to go. In this context, I would like to ask you about your opinion on the compulsory practice of graduates of medical faculties after completing their studies at the point of lack of doctors, respectively. which will be determined by the Ministry of Health. I know it might arouse passion, because so-called. Placements from communism really meant a great deal of harm to someone. So much for my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u73	Thank you, too. I ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u74	Thank you for the floor. That is, of course, a rather controversial question to determine to someone that they have to live somewhere. Because it's not about this guy working there, that's part of it, but he's got to live there, he's got to have a family there, etc. Now the question is whether we really want to say this: here you will live with your family and you have no choice. I don't know, I guess it would trigger passions for young doctors. The question is, would it not lead to them being motivated to go abroad? The question of the lack of doctors in remote areas is very complex and it is not only about money, it is, of course, about municipalities, which, of course, are also trying to offer infrastructure, offer housing, offer work for a wife or husband. Of course, kindergarten etc. Young people need backgrounds, and it is clear that today the world is about that young people tend to live in a larger center, where they have enjoyment, where they have room for free time, etc. Today we live in a time of work-life balance, which is clear. Even the European Union is promoting this. Nobody wants to work anymore, they want to enjoy life, and it's probably some sociological trend, and it's very hard to change only with money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u75	Thank you for your answer, and we'll move on to another interpellation. Mr Feri will intersect the absent Minister Hamáček on the matter of correspondence elections. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear absent minister, let me ask you a question from a citizen of Jaroslav Tkáč, who asks you when the electronic and correspondence elections will be. I will allow myself to extend and specify the question slightly, namely whether your ministry entered into negotiations with the Estonian Party, with representatives of the Estonian Government, or with representatives of the Estonian administrations of the parties to the electronic elections, or whether it will enter into such negotiations. It's for electronic elections. Furthermore, as far as the correspondence elections are concerned, as your position is, of course, I know the Government's position on the House press 217, but what is the position, for example. your legislation, if it is possible for this House press to be an appropriate medium for the implementation of correspondence elections. The government gave a neutral position on this, so there is certainly some way to work with it. If your ministry plays an appropriate role in possible legislative adjustments. I do not have to explain the benefits of correspondence elections and the ease of hundreds of thousands of Čech abroad who would like to vote, but do not vote precisely because their residence is hundreds or thousands of kilometers away from some representative office, from the embassy or Consulate General. The benefits are widely known and I believe that this matter will not have a political dimension in terms of politics, but that it will be a matter of substance, because it can really help hundreds of thousands of people abroad. Thank you very much for your answer and I will ask for your answer to my data box as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u77	Thank you. The Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. Now, please, Mrs Kovářová, who will interpel in the matter of high-speed internet in the countryside. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u78	Madam Secretary, high-speed Internet is a key issue in rural development. I hope we agree on that. The previous governments did not act accordingly. The 14 billion, which the Czech Republic could exhaust on its enlargement, almost flowed through our fingers. Some of these funds have already been moved elsewhere. And I want to ask you what the current situation in this area is, what you want to do to expand the high-speed Internet in the countryside, and when it will be possible to do so. I would very much like it to be thatcheric: If you want something to be said in politics, save it for men. If you want something done, save it for your wife. Unfortunately, I must say that your predecessors in office spoke more than they did. It can be fixed, and in this case, I'm counting on you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u79	Thank you. I beg Secretary Nováková to respond to her interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u80	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. On your question, I would like to say that the MIT is very serious about the issue of high-speed Internet. I appreciate you putting your trust in me that a woman will be the one that may improve the high-speed Internet situation. I would just like to say so much about the fact that we have today 2018 and the 14 billion crowns allocated to high-speed internet, and the allocation was made on the basis of analyses in 2010 to 2012, when there was a relatively large crisis throughout Europe that did not pass the Czech Republic, so it turned out that it exceeded the 14 billion real absorption capacity in addition while maintaining public support rules, which is also one of the reasons why the money is very difficult to draw. At the moment, i.e. at the turn of November-December, I assume that a second call is being prepared, which will be directed to an area covering 84 thousand residential buildings, where private investors do not provide connectivity today, is not planned for them even until the end of 2019. These are less than 4 percent of the total number of residential buildings in the Czech Republic. To support these projects, the MIT is currently planning to release one billion. If it turns out that the absorption capacity is higher, we'll release more. At the same time, we are planning to make it more helpful to the supposed applicants, both from the point of view of the indicators that allow applicants to proceed to the challenge. The MIT is further developing an expansion program, which is actually financial instruments to support high-speed networks. And here, on the basis of the call made, specific consultations are already under way with specific candidates for this support. Another new challenge we are planning is the creation of so-called digital technical maps. There should be the fact that we will actually map current technological networks, which are already built primarily by state companies or companies with state participation, such as ČEPS or ČEZ or ČD-Telematics, and also by private entities, so that we can identify the real state of all high-speed networks or where there is a prerequisite for high-speed networks. We'd like to talk about a real high-speed network of at least 100 megabits. The digital map, the digital technical map that will be created in this way, will also allow what we call the last mile, which means creating a prerequisite for consummation up to households or into specific institutes, and we are actually preparing other challenges for this, which should lead to the final mile being completed. In addition, a number of legislative measures have been developed, such as the adoption of a law to reduce the cost of high-speed network deployment, which has been in force since June. By approving the amendment to the Construction Act, this construction can also accelerate, for which we really thank the Chamber of Deputies for having been able to approve the Act in an accelerated procedure. Furthermore, my Ministry has set up a working group that is already working to create a methodological work aid for construction offices, where it will be possible to specify the relationship between the Electronic Communications Act, the legal measure to reduce the cost of introducing high-speed networks, the construction law and the Act on Accelerating Infrastructure Construction. We are also preparing technical standardisation information to adapt the existing standard on technical solutions for sharing electronic communications management by different operators. As part of the search for ways we want to further facilitate networking, we want to use the amendment to the Act on Accelerating the Construction of Transport, Water and Energy Infrastructure and Electronic Communications Infrastructure, which has become effective on 1 August 2018, and which actually also makes it possible to accelerate. [[Attention on time.]] The last thing I would like to say is that, in the second phase of the amendment to this law, we would like to allow the so-called extension, that is to say, to allow the already-developed communication that will be able to be accessed there by these other communications connections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u81	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, is there an interest in a supplementary question by Mrs Kovářová? Not interested, so we will proceed to the next interpellation that Mr Dominik Feri has on Mr Richard Brabec's absent minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Now it's just gonna be a solo at the end. This is a very interesting question from the citizen to the absent minister, which is: What materials or analyses does the Ministry of the Environment have to make an advance on PET bottles? Do you agree to the introduction of advances on PET bottles? If so, what steps have you taken? Alternatively, if you have consulted your counterpart in Germany, where they have experience. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u83	Thank you. And the answer will be answered in writing. And we can proceed to another interpellation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u84	Okay. Another interpelation from citizen František Maršík to Mr. absent minister is: What will you do with the fact that large farms do not give a shit about measures against drought and the state of the Czech landscape? This question is on the verge of Minister Toman and Minister Brabec, but it is very mixed. Why has the Ministry of Agriculture prepared an amendment to the forest decree, which again demands majority planting, when it is clear that spruce simply does not have a chance of living tolls due to the climate change involved?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u85	So, also to this question, it will be answered within 30 days. And we can proceed to another interpellation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u86	Another interpelation of the absent minister Richard Brabec reads: How does the Ministry intend to prevent the extinction of small game objectively caused by farmers' farming? At least in South Moravia, where I'm from, it's a huge problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u87	There. Once again, it will be answered in writing. And another interpellation to Minister Richard Brabec, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u88	This interpelation has already been heard here once. She was on the Prime Minister. I'll take the liberty of repeating it. And that is, what about lithium, which was a big election theme? What other steps has the Ministry taken, and if it is ever intended to exploit it at Cínovec in the Ore Mountains? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u89	Thank you. Once again, it will be answered in writing. And we can proceed to another interview by Mr Dominik Feri on Minister Dan Ťok. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u90	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, thank you for your presence. This question concerns, and I have already intersected the Prime Minister on this issue last time, discounted tickets. That is the impact this discount has brought on citizens. Citizen Matěj Pluhar asks you why the Ministry of Transport forced the Czech Railways to cancel the early tickets and thus completely liquidated the semi-national carrier. Price increase up to 200 %. It's the only car left. Thank you. And I would like to point out here that if you have any data related to this thing or not, because the Czech Railways haven't delivered it yet for some objective reasons, terms and so on, then I will ask them in some machine-readable form if that would be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u91	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u92	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, it is true that the first days of September were issued so-called early tickets, namely the special fare of the Czech Railways for connecting to regional cities. Compared to current tariffs on which a 75 percent discount can be applied, they were slightly more expensive. However, these tickets were from 14. 9. canceled and transformed into so-called superaction tickets for which 75 percent discount is granted. However, the so-called early ticket was the marginal volume of the documents sold. I can provide you with the following statistics on the number of persons transported within the state-privileged fare for the period from 1 to 18. 9. 2018, available from České dráhy. [[The Minister reads from the overview.]] [[16.00 hours]] Thus, in the category of children and youth from six to eighteen years of age, 1,423,914,in the category of passengers over sixty-five years 415,661 passengers, in the category of student 18 to twenty-six years 701 524 passengers. České dráhy carried 2 541 099 persons within the state discounted fare. I don't have any information from other carriers. And if I understood the question - once we have the total statistics, we will provide you with how many early tickets on the whole tribe did, what percentage they represented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u93	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional answer? Yes, it is, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. And I thank the Minister for his answer. Yes, the early tickets really weren't used so much in some way, but it's very hard to defend or explain. How is it that a citizen who doesn't get those discounts so suddenly pays so much more to cancel early tickets? 'Cause those cases, they stayed on the same level somewhere, somewhere higher, somewhere lower. And I will allow myself to ask one more thing in this matter, namely, whether the discounts for seniors and the discounts for students, if it is a definitive. If it's just until you're in the ministry or as long as this government is, they'll just be here. Or if you evaluate it every year, if it pays off, if it's reasonable, and if it doesn't pay off, then if you do the right thing or politically you just say: we've put it in place, it's some priority, it costs so much and so much money, but we just want it because it's a political issue that we want to promote or a political issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u95	Thank you for keeping time. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u96	Just for a very short time. We will definitely monitor the impact of discounts and their costs. It's about the evaluation. I don't know what this would be against, because those discounts were introduced to help students and, in particular, seniors. And if it helps them, and I know that from now on, or from the short effect, they're all positive responses, I don't see any reason to disturb it. I'd rather look for some optimization as little as possible, but that's what we're going to talk about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u97	Thank you. Mr Dominik Feri last interpellation to Minister Dan Ťok. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The last question is from Mrs Alexandra, who asks: I would like to ask you why they are still around the Czech flag's motorways today and why they are not removed long ago. It is heading towards the removal agreement, which unfortunately does not have a written form, if this information still applies, if it could be explained in any way. And, if necessary, if this company does not intervene and remove billboards, what other actions the Ministry will take and in what time horizon. That's how I'm gonna fill in the question. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u99	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is going to be a little bit longer, but I will try to explain. For one thing, I'll probably have bad information for Alexandra's I.D., because this influential House passed a law seven years ago that doesn't remove all the billboards around the highways and I. class roads. There is still a large part of billboards in the transitional provision, which are under the construction law or which have other provisions and which can remain there. All the billboards we're supposed to remove, we're definitely gonna remove, we're working on it. And the deal. You know, it wasn't a deal. It was that one of those billboard owners, namely Czech Outdoor, came to us and said that he no longer insisted on his position that he would wait for the Constitutional Court's decision on their proposal to abolish this part of the law and that he would remove those billboards himself. We took note of his commitment, and when we saw that he was serious and really removing it, we did some press conference with him where we told the public. So there was no deal that needed to be put on paper because Czech Outdoor and like all owners of illegal billboards are simply obliged to remove those billboards. So they got their legal obligations. And I had the need to give it to the public and to appreciate it in a mild way because it saves taxpayers' money. Of course, any billboard that doesn't belong to the highways will gradually be removed by the owners who don't have it, by the ŘSD or by the competent authority, and we'll collect the money from the owners. I'm just saying, I think we're overestimating our powers. I believed that billboard owners were good citizens and that they would remove their illegal billboards, they didn't do it, and that it must be done for them in this amount, it has been removed to this day by about 900 billboards others. So we will certainly continue to strive to ensure that the law is respected throughout our wide range. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-20-ps2017-019-07-010-169.u101	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? It's not. Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted the agenda for today's meeting. I'm done with today's meeting and we'll start tomorrow, that's Friday 21st. 9., at 9.00, consideration of point No. 42, Social Services Act, and paragraph 167, criminal prosecution of Zdeněk Ondráček. Thank you and goodbye.
