ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u1	39. Request for consent Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr. Pavel Růžička The mandate and immune committee has discussed the request for consent, and it has been served on the bench today by its resolution No. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market and amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European I will therefore ask Mr Stanislav Grospič's chairman of the mandate and immunity committee. With priority rights, come along, Mr. Ambassador. We will then put the proposal to the table in a procedural vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u2	I wanted to formally propose that we make a decision after opening this point. Because if we decide to continue, then it's logical for the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee to speak, and then it ran. If we decide to cut it off, I think he'd have to do it again next time. I formally propose a procedural motion to interrupt this point in the presence of the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u3	We shall vote on this without delay. We will be voting on a procedural proposal to interrupt this point in the presence of Mr Pavel Růžička. I don't think there's a need to log out. I'd vote immediately. Who is in favour of this procedural proposal? Sorry, one more time. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Whoever opposes this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Voting order number 60. Registered 148, for 45, against 76, delayed 27. The motion to suspend this point has been rejected. I'll take the floor, so I'll finish it. The mandate and immune committee has discussed the request for consent, and it has been served on the bench today by its resolution No. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market and amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European I therefore ask Mr Stanislav Grospič, Chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, to report to us on the consideration of the request of the District Court in Chomutov for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Pavel Růžička. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, please allow me, as in the previous paragraph, to inform you of the course of the examination of the application, this time the District Court in Chomutov, of the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Pavel Růžička, who was served on 13 December 2017 by the President of the Chamber of Deputies and on the same day was handed over to the delegation and immunity committee in order to determine whether the conditions for criminal prosecution of the aforementioned Member are laid down in the immune case. In accordance with the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the request of the District Court in Chomutov contains the definition of the act at issue and its anticipated legal qualification. The full criminal file kept at the requesting court was served on request to the mandate and immunity committee and the members of the committee were given the opportunity to get to know its contents at the premises of the secretariat of the committee. The Committee initiated the examination of the request at the 5th meeting held on 20 December 2017. Mr Marek Benda was designated as rapporteur and the hearing was suspended by resolution 28. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, consideration of the request of the District Court in Chomutov was included in the programme of the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. At the 9th meeting of the Committee, which took place on 23 January 2018, Mr. Pavel Růžička, accompanied by his legal representative, participated in the discussion of the application of the District Court in Chomutov and the grounds for prosecution was also expressed by the District Attorney's State Attorney in Louny Mgr Radka Pavlišová as a prosecutor. All invited also answered questions from members of the mandate and immunity committee. Following the presentation of Mr Marek Benda's report and after the debate, the Committee closed the hearing of the request of the District Court in Chomutov and unanimously adopted Resolution No. 45 that you were given on the bench. Subsequently, the Committee adopted Resolution No. 46 The Committee's opinion on the request of the District Court in Chomutov, which will be presented to you by the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Marek Benda. That's all on my side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u5	Mr President, thank you and please the rapporteur of Mr Marek Benda's committee to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the mandate and immune committee has adopted its resolution No. 45, which you all have in front of you on your benches, where, on the basis of a proposal from the District Court in Chomutov, he proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to vote on a resolution approving the prosecution of Mr Ing. Pavie Růžička, n.o.b. 3. 4. 1970, which was to commit an offence of breach of the obligation in the management of foreign property due to negligence pursuant to § 221 para. 1 of the Penal Code, and you have in the resolution described the deed as seen by the District Court in Chomutov. I am lightly careful that in the news reports here, in my opinion, the opinions of both the persons concerned and the Members concerned and their lawyers, as well as the prosecutors who say them on the ground of the mandate and immunity committee, are being silenced. If you will forgive me, then I will not recapitulate the course of the deliberations of the mandate and immunity committee, because I consider this to be bordering on the way in which these individual cases have been reported so far, and the only thing I will tell you is that the mandate and immunity committee has adopted, as was said by President Grospič, a resolution in which the Chamber of Deputies has not recommended to give its consent to the criminal prosecution of Mr Ing. Pavel Růžička, n.o.b. April 3, 1970. The mandate and immunity committee did not recommend the Chamber of Deputies. Furthermore, I would not comment on the meeting of the non-public committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u7	Thank you, and I will therefore ask the rapporteur to follow the general debate with me from the rapporteur's table, but here, with priority right, Mr Faltýnek is claiming the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Today, therefore, for the third time on this matter. Once again, I would like to apologize to my colleague Pavel Růžička for his illness and I would like to read his opinion, which describes very briefly the absurd case he is accused of. I quote: I am not only standing before you as Pavel Růžička as an MP, but also as a representative who decided in the council of the city. This is a 15-member council, and ten representatives voted as I for sale, we are charged together, three were apologized, one abstained and one opposed. Postoloprty is a town with 5,000 inhabitants in the Ústí Region. This is a socially excluded locality. I would like to point out here that I am not the only representative facing bullying prosecution. Amazingly, 85 percent of the representatives who have been charged or accused are acquitted five to ten years later, and the state pays them considerable compensation. I don't think that's normal. I do not feel guilty, I have decided as a representative who knows the local conditions and fully in accordance with the law on municipalities. The city representative decided only on one submitted offer, namely real estate that could not have been sold since 2008 due to poor technical condition. No one else offered more than one million crowns for this property. If I had to vote again on selling this property, I would have voted exactly the same way. Our meeting and method of sale of real estate was evaluated by the Department of Public Administration, Supervision and Control of the Ministry of Interior of the Czech Republic, where we are about 9. 3. 2017 requested. This opinion states that the sale of the property was carried out in accordance with the municipal law and we did not break the law. It is striking that the prosecutor did not take this position into account at all. We are the first case that stands before the court for a positive opinion and a precise fulfillment of the diction of the law. The only proof of the state's attorney is an expert opinion on the property, which was assigned by the police to the price of the decree and not to the price usual in the place for which we sold the property, as the law on municipalities speaks. Our estimates and then expert opinion for the price at the usual spot, which was in the expert opinion of CZK 1 million 100 000, also did not accept purposefully. I would also like to point out that the expert was not there at all and the amount of 500,000 for which we are being prosecuted exceeded CZK 2,840 so that they can start prosecuting us at a higher rate. Further supervision was carried out by the Ministry of Justice, the Department of Judicial Supervision, which says that the expert opinion given by the Police of the Czech Republic shows defects. The D.A. also ignored this oversight at all. I say again that I feel absolutely innocent. So much for Pavel Růžička. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. I, therefore, open a general debate and have no Members. I do, yes, so wait, so one step at a time. Mr. Adamec. Are you applying for an actual general? Come on, that's a proper application. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it won't allow me not to get on this case here, because I don't know if most of you know this, I'm the mayor of the district town of Trutnov for the 20th year, and I've actually lived through the era when the Supreme Attorney declared us governors, and then in the House there were things that I had no sense to stand on, classic, not the last, but the previous term of election, when the Public Procurement Act was passed here, so that he said that there was no competition, and everyone here at the end of the vote stood and applauded how they turned the corruption, so I've had enough experience over the last 20 years in the city's leadership with just such cases and problems. And I have to say that most of the time, those initiatives are given by unsuccessful opposition, activists and parties that are unattended, who think that prosecution simply solves their political problem. It's not gonna work out. And whoever this case is in the House and it concerns anyone, no prosecution has ever solved any political problem I think has ever solved or solved. It is simply a political problem that needs to be dealt with politically, not criminally. I say that completely responsibly from this place from my own experience, although I'm not a lawyer, but I have something to say about it. [[17.30 hours]] This case of real estate sales, as has been said, neglected, I do not know it specifically, but there is another problem here, and that is the problem so called. the usual prices. And I would like to point out that this is a bit of a sneaky thing, which, of course, came so unexpectedly, not invited by the Czech Republic's accession to the European Union, when European law came to us, where they have it anchored. And, of course, when selling the property below the price, you have to do additional tasks so that you can sell the property below the price if the buyer is not the usual. Sometimes a national ad is enough for everyone to know - I say, preferably pan-European in several languages, for everyone to know, or it has to be offered repeatedly to prove that the price is actually wrong. That means I registered $1,100,000 and they sold for a million. I understand that, Postoloprty, and now I don't want to offend them, apparently there is no big city where, of course, experience with such sales is probably not everyday. Anyway, I think it's just technique. And the D.A. should look into it my way if he gets the announcement. I don't know who filed the criminal complaint, if anyone who thought they were gonna get the house for half the time. But that's usually the case. I think it was a bit of a clumsy leadership of the town, maybe the deputies. And I certainly don't think this should cause the council to be prosecuted for selling something at this price. I have to say, it creates paradoxes. When you vote on something on the board, today it becomes a common practice that the councilman is afraid to make a decision, one of the councilmen doesn't vote. And because it's a private vote, that is. Secret, so the D.A. is at a loss because he doesn't know who to charge and who he doesn't have if he doesn't. It's worse with the D.A. The representative is public, and even a number of representatives, to make it more transparent, have obtained an electronic vote. You can already see who raised the hand and who didn't raise it, so it's clear that it's very simple then. The D.A.'s coming in, pulling out his junk, and he's on his way. I think that even the percentage of the state's attorney's success is saying that something is actually not right. And as a person who has been involved in municipal politics for years, and I can tell fellow pirát that many people I would like to see in the council refuse to run for these reasons, and many people I don't think should be in the council, then they run, but of course it's the right of every citizen, I can't question that here, so I don't think the level of representativeships is growing. And I personally think that the main purpose of these negotiations here in the House is not the specific issue of which Member, but it is a signal to the public and prosecutors, let them stop. That is why I am always in these cases of self-government, if I am not convinced that there has been enrichment, publicly speaking, that they have stolen, those ladies and gentlemen in the council, so I will never vote in favour of the extradition. Whatever political person he is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u11	Thank you, too. Good evening, for the second time tonight. And now I have Mrs Válková's factual comment. [[This is Mrs Cernochová reporting from the O.R. with a normal performance.]] Well, if it's normal, I'll put you in. [[Laughing from the left side of the hall.]] Real first! I am now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u12	I must be brief, Mr President. I wanted two notes. On the one hand, I know from my fellow judges that they are not at all enthusiastic even by the wording of the facts of which the suspect and already accused Member Růžička is. Indeed, this breach of the obligation to manage foreign property from negligence, paragraph 221 is very, very rubbery, and I think that we should, Mr Benda, by your means, Mr President, even in the Constitutional Legal Committee, consider its amendment if necessary. And the second point is that I may not reveal anything as a member of a mandate and an immune committee, a very unconvincing exercise - let me say this ironically - a prosecutor in this case who convinced us of the very opposite of what she was trying to convince us of. And I dare say that, because after her speech and explanation, we have come to an almost unanimous conclusion that this really isn't possible. Another reason for this is to focus a little on this problem in a broader context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u13	Thank you, too. And before we move on, I have some apologies. The Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes to us from 14:00 until the end of the House meeting for work reasons. Vice-President Hamáček from today's meeting of the House from 16 a.m. to the end of the meeting for work reasons. And Mr Farský, on 24 January between 18 and 19 o'clock, on account of negotiations in the electoral region. So now we have a written application for a debate that takes precedence. [[Mrs Černochová objects to the fact that she applied equally with Mr Adamec.]] I know, but written applications come first. Next time in writing, I recommend it. Mr. Feranec prefers? Mr. Feranec prefers you, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u14	Thank you. Gentlemen didn't die out. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're having something here today that I didn't remember having in the past. We are to discuss the extradition of one of the colleagues against whom I will vote. And we're talking about him without him. I really think there are some things in our political culture that we should respect that we should respect. Because, you know, I'm not a member of the mandate and immunity committee. And members of the mandate and immunity committee can't publicly disclose any information to me here. Unlike the Member, who I would expect to speak with his defence and some things that cannot be communicated to us by members of the mandate and immunity committee, he will tell us. I also do not like the fact that we are discussing the second point here, which concerns not only matters relating to the police, but especially to our justice, and in these benches the Minister of Justice does not sit. Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to inform you whether the Minister of Justice has been excused from today's hearing, which is the reason for his absence. So the Minister of Justice isn't here, he's not the one we're talking about. Mr. Faltýnek here will say through the Vice-President: Let's just get this over with! Does that seem dignified to you? I don't think it's worthy of Mr. Růžička. Because, as I say, I agree with the opinion of my previous speakers that indeed various accusations on municipal policies run like a running belt and it can happen to any of us. I am not talking at all here because I would like to vote in favour of Mr. Růžička's release. No. But I want us to respect some level of House of Deputies here, because these are really essential things. Important things that affect lives not only by colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies. But were there more accused? Is there any way you're getting the charges out in front of the police? Do we have any information on this? There's a lot of questions. And I'm not a member of the mandate and immunity committee, and I have something to vote on. Something where there's not even a person I could ask. Yes, I can approach that by trusting my ODS colleagues who are there, I will respect that recommendation. Nevertheless, I think that we must maintain some level of the negotiations. [[17.40 hours]] And what I said a little while ago that the Minister of Justice isn't here, is that okay with you? That there's criticism of law enforcement agencies, our justice system, and there's no one here who would react in any way? Again, is that something you want to keep your mouth shut about, colleagues and colleagues? You know, I've even read rather contradictory information about Mr. Růžička in the media. One of the information before the election was that he wanted to publish, then I got in the media... [[Messenger. Black girl coughed.]] Yes, there are more of us sick here, Mr. Faltýnek, through the Vice-President. Yet here we are! Does Mr. Růžička want to publish? Doesn't Mr. Růžička want to publish? I don't know. I read some of his statements that he wanted to publish. Please tell me what the truth is. And since Mr. Růžička is no longer here, I would ask that at least his attorney, who has read a report for him, listen to me because... [[J. Faltynek is talking to T. Okamura.]] Mr Tomio Okamura, I'm sorry, Mr Vice-President, but I'm speaking to Mr Faltýnek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u15	Please calm down in the hall, and let those who do not act in the matter move out eventually.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u16	So that someone would answer that question if Mr. Růžička wants to publish or doesn't want to. In the media, the information is diverse. Something else he said before the election, something else after the election. I don't know what he said yesterday on the mandate and immune committee. I think this is information we should know, too. So if the President of the club does not have that information from Mr Růžička, I would ask that we formally vote on the interruption to the presence of the Minister of Justice, because, as I have said here several times, I think the Minister of Justice should be present when discussing such matters. It's not just formalities! Just as I appeal to all my colleagues that if we get into this situation, so that you are present here, because it really is something that should have some political culture and not that we are discussing someone here without him!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u17	Thank you. I would like to point out that Minister Pelikán is excused for the whole day and I have no reason to be here. And now I have some factual applications here, but I have noted the proposal that we should vote in a procedural way on the interruption of the debate to the Minister's presence, so I will probably call my colleagues and I would begin the vote if we do not want to unsubscribe. [[The requirements from the diaper.]] Check out, okay, so I'll check you out. Please sign in. We'll wait for the number of applicants to settle. For those who are running, I will repeat that we will have a procedural vote to suspend the point to the presence of the Minister of Justice. I think everyone's here. We're still applying for co-workers. There. I therefore initiate the suspension vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Who's staying? Thank you. In voting number 61, 141 Members were enrolled, for they were 16, against 83. The motion has been rejected, so we will proceed. Thank you for this moment and I have here, with a factual remark, Mr Nacher's first Mr. Please, Ambassador, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore thought that I would not speak to this point, but the previous speech by my colleague, Černochová, raised me. So we've been discussing the whole time, the Minister of Justice hasn't been here, and no such request has been made here from you. If I remember correctly, almost the entire club was against the extradition of the Professor Svoboda. Professor Svoboda sits here, and he hasn't said anything about it. As I recall, the mandate and immune committee did not recommend in both cases, and I assume he discussed this very thoroughly. So I don't understand this at all! It feels like a finger to me right now, and we want a whole hand. Now there's been a vote here, and now President Faltýnek here has read to you that my colleague Růžička is ill. If he insists on wanting to be there, that's probably what the letter says. Everything's been discussed. If there are any questions, your MPs should have put it in the mandate and immunity committee, and I really don't understand this ten minutes after the Donate of Svoboda's extradition!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u19	Thank you. Mr Okleštěk is now in office. In fact. And then Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I wanted to speak with the same person that Patrik came in because I feel that the Minister was not here, even when we were discussing the case of Professor Svoboda, and no one had a problem with that. I think we should take the same subway. And as for the consultation on the mandate and immunity committee, we are a member, we have discussed everything that was needed, and we have rarely even agreed. So I don't think there's any reason to interrupt this hearing at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u21	Thank you and now Mrs Černochová with a factual view. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. If something's not clear to Mr. Nacher, let him ask some of his more experienced colleagues. I'm not here to teach him anything. The difference between when we were here discussing a matter that concerns Mr Svoboda, and I am very surprised that you are uniting it. So you were expecting us not to give you the Svoboda to give you Růžička? Do you realize, Mr. Nacher, through...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u23	Please calm down! Please calm down, or I'll break the negotiations!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u24	Do you realize, Mr Nacher, through the Vice-President, what you've confessed to here? So did colleague Okleštěk? Is that really what you're connecting? I don't have it that way. In the first sentence, I said I was ready to vote against Mr. Růžička's extradition. But my colleague, Svoboda, was sitting here the whole time. You don't have Mr. Růžička or the Minister of Justice here, and that makes a pretty big difference between discussing the two matters! Not to mention that my colleague Svoboda has already been here in the last term, yes, there has been another House, so this request has been discussed here and he has performed here several times. Several times. In fact, you then voted for it to be issued in the previous term. So, on the ground of this Chamber of Deputies, Mr Svoboda has already spoken very in detail on this matter. So I'm actually very unpleasantly surprised that you're connecting these two cases and you feel like it's something for something. I'm sorry, I was talking about some kind of political culture. I don't care about anything else that the person we're supposed to be dealing with is here physically. [[Time warning]] That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u25	Thank you. Just before I invite another speaker, I received a note from Minister Pelikán from yesterday, when he apologized for today's medical treatment, so we know. And now I beg you, Mr Adamec, in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues. I hope it will not be so terrible, my colleague, through Mr President. I wouldn't suspect the YES movement has any calculus in these two cases, so that's really strong coffee for me, I don't believe it. I don't believe it, I don't believe it. But I wanted to respond here to something else. I wanted to respond to Mr Nacher's colleague, when he said here that we could actually come to the mandat, or the immune man, and that we could ask that gentleman, fellow Member. I would like to remind you that I am not interested in the negotiations - let me finish. [[loud reactions from the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u27	Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u28	I think we have the right to ask other people here who are not members of the committee. We have the right to ask my colleague Růžička as well. We do. You can't question that. Maybe I'm more at peace with this case. I understand if somebody's 38, they're not coming to the House. This case is so clear to me that I was telling you right from the start how I'm gonna behave in this case, just like any other case of the same type, but please, let's keep going and try not to blame ourselves like this. Some may be more impulsive, I do not see it that way, but it is certainly the right of this House and of all the members of the House to ask questions, the right to criticize, the right to make proposals. So please, let's not blame ourselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u29	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Okleštěk is registered and then I have three more applications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mrs Černochová, through Mr President, you mix pears with apples. I'm talking about two things here. One thing is the same approach to whether the Minister of Justice is present when discussing extradition or not. That's the first thing. The connection between these two cases and the trade, or the calculus you called it, seems so low to me that I would almost not want to comment on it. But even my colleague Nacher didn't say anything like that. That's your deduction, and I'm worried if there's an elevated temperature.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u31	Now, please, Mr Nacher, with a factual remark, two minutes. Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u32	Come on, ladies and gentlemen, I mean, I'm not enough to stare. I'm the new MP here, you're right. I didn't connect anything. Let's hear it. I didn't connect anything. I would be against the extradition of Professor Svoboda, and he knows that, because we talked about it at the D.A., where the press asked me about that opinion a year ago, and I held the same opinion. So I'm judging by you. I don't need to do business here. And if the words of your President who said that it would always be against the extradition of people, if it was based on some political decision, which is also the case with Mr. Růžička, then I guess you'll be voting, that's up to you, and I promise you how you will vote, so I really don't care. I'm not following this. I was against the extradition of Professor Svoboda, against the extradition of my colleague Růžička. I'm not connecting it. And I consider it scandalous to put this in my mouth. Really scandalous. If demagogy were to raise - I wouldn't be original - some of them would fly by the ceiling.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u33	Thank you. Mr Hájek, now. You have two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u34	Mr President, colleagues, I would strongly criticise the work of the ANO representatives in the Organising Committee, who failed to put the case of fellow Růžička before Mr Svoboda's discussion. If they had done this, we wouldn't have witnessed these awkward scenes! I really think it's enough to give us advice once, once, we've got a bunch of new Members here, they're gonna remember the lesson my colleague Černochová is trying to teach us here. And unfortunately sometimes every action will cause a reaction, I am a person who can be very correct to women, I have it innate, but here, my dear colleague, it was really over the line, and it was forcefully! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u35	Now, Mrs Válková, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u36	Dear colleagues, so I really don't like it this way, and I think it's women who are more likely to try to smooth out the possible edges of such already beyond the ensuing personal outbursts. But I didn't take a factual note here to preach to someone here how they should behave. We all need to know that for ourselves. But I wanted to draw attention to a serious discrepancy. First of all, Mrs Černochová, through you, Mr Vice-President, said that Mr Svoboda has already performed several times in the past. She forgot that about two thirds of the Chamber of Deputies are new Members, so they did not have the opportunity to hear it, at least I understood it that way. Secondly, I myself, as a member of the mandate and immune committee, have heard his comments and thought that he would perform today, and if he did not speak out with his statement - which I will not now say how he stood up because he himself did not say so, I fully respect it - I did not, of course, as opposed to her, and I did not say, "I would still like to hear Mr Liberty's comments on this ground, as he stands up for it." It was his internal decision, I accepted it, and I thought it would also contribute to a certain quiet working atmosphere, which has now begun to develop, for example, in a constitutionally legal committee, the chairman of which is Mr Benda, who has shown today that this is the case when it comes to concrete matters without emotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u37	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Černochová, with a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My colleague Hájek always lights up the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I don't know if Mr. Nacher wants to respond to him through you because we heard what Mr. Hájek here said. He confessed my assumption, so I don't know who's objecting here, what's outrage, what's pushing him two steps higher, as my colleague Nacher said here, when there was actually a clear position from the mouth of my colleague Hájek. You know, coworkers and colleagues, what was supposed to happen and we didn't even have to deal with this here? If Mr. Růžička is sick, he probably didn't get sick at 4:00 in the afternoon. He's probably been sick since this morning. I don't even know if he was read among the apologies. If your President of the Faltýnek Club got up this morning and said "co-workers, colleagues, we have two Members on the agenda today, Mr Růžička is sick, let's move this point to Thursday, Friday" - would anyone object? No. We didn't think Mr. Růžička was here - I asked my colleague Benda as rapporteur, and he didn't know he wouldn't be here. And this is the rapporteur of the mandate and immunity committee. You're collapsing over the fact that someone here is acting out in the sense of "if we knew, we would turn these points in the opposite order," and you don't mind that Mr. Růžička here might even want to defend himself and want to tell us something about it, and you're taking away the possibility. Until now, Mr. Faltýnek has not answered whether he wants to publish or not, which one of his opinions is currently correct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u39	Thank you. I would like to point out that Mr Růžička is listed as health reasons for the whole day from the apologies to the Chamber of Deputies which I presume were read at the beginning of the meeting. So we have now exhausted the factual points, I believe, so Mr Feranec is entered into the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u40	Thank you. After about half an hour since I preferred it, but I'll do it again next time. It's just, after all the heated debates, I'd like to get back to the basics, to the material side. I'm a member of the mandate and immunity committee, so I'm gonna say the reasons why I didn't vote on the committee, and I'm not gonna vote today. I'm saying the case is identical to the case of Professor Svoboda. Identical. Completely identical. The only difference is that there are a bunch of lawyers available in the decision-making board of the capital, when I say it like that, expert advisors, whereas in the village, in the town, 5,000 inhabitants, there is probably no such support apparatus. And the principle, the crime that Mr. Růžička was about to commit, is the city where there are 5,000 inhabitants, the socially excluded locality, we probably know what it means, what it's affecting the value of real estate, 2008 tried to sell real estate. Failed. Several intentions. In 2014, they announced the intention, they published it, it's some kind of competition, when I say it, a public offer, a single contender came forward. [[unintelligible]] He offered a million. They agreed. The day after that came the representative, who is in some political dispute, and he said: I will offer a million and a thousand crowns. Fine. So he filed a criminal report, they said, "You're out of luck," and the cops said, "well, our expert says it could be a million five hundred thousand, the price." Well, the connoisseur didn't log in, he didn't buy the real estate. So for me, what's the usual price? That's market. What the market's gonna say. So, for me, the case is really absurd, and it doesn't really testify, at least in this case, about the quality work of law enforcement agencies in this case. And two more points. What did any of these MPs declare? Both of them acted exactly the same way yesterday at the committee meeting. They said: we will vote in favour of our extradition. One, the other. Mr. Růžička said it with a problem because he was very sick. He was coughing up every minute. Neither of them said he wanted to ask for his extradition. Neither. Exactly the same. And so if he's saying, if something's going on here, I'd be naively assuming that if two things are exactly the same, that we're doing the exact same thing, we're deciding. But I'm blundered as a rookie because it's probably a political decision. So for me, these are exactly identical cases, and I don't understand the ODS procedure -- sorry, I'm afraid I understand him, but I'm reluctant to believe it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u41	Thank you, too. And now I have two factual points. The first is Mr Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u42	Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, Colleagues, I will decide politically in the vote and that means exactly the same as in the case of Mr Svoboda. That means, I don't think the cases are identical, but they are similar in many ways, and I think that, in the case of local politicians, at least in this way, we should express our unwillingness to criminalize for the decision of the collective body. In some cases, even theoretically, the mayor should sign if something is a resolution, although he does not agree with it. And I think that is one of the things that we should consider whether to change legislation that concerns the responsibility of local politicians.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u43	Thank you and now Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u44	Perhaps for the last time, Mr Vice-President, but your colleague seems to be sitting on his ears through you. Because I have said here that I am determined to vote against Mr. Růžička's extradition, which is equal to my fellow Member of Liberty. That the only thing that bothers me and that shouldn't become a tradition and a custom so that the person we're supposed to be discussing here is just not here. Everything can be handled with a decent deal. If Mr. Faltýnek gets up this morning and says: Mr. Růžička will be sick, he won't be at the meeting today, let's move on to another day. And we could have saved this whole debate. By the way, the Civil Democratic Party is not a party which, in the case of quotes, would have a binding vote. We've never had it, we don't even have it in this case. It makes us different from you, from your colleagues from YES. Indeed, we, like each Member, can freely decide how we want to vote on the extradition of our fellow Members. So here you really are accusing me of something, or the Civil Democratic Party, which isn't at all. And I've been saying it all along and from the start. And the only thing I don't feel happy about is that in the history of this House, what I remember, it happens for the first time that this man isn't physically here. He's not physically here. Docent Svoboda is physically present here. And the Minister of Justice YES, it is a special bonus for what has fallen from the mouth of your colleagues and our colleagues, that something is actually happening that is not completely standard. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u45	Thank you. And now, Mr. Třešňák, with a fact yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u46	Good evening, colleagues. On these two points, in this and in the previous, we are really almost absurdly debating this issue and not issuing two members to prosecute, on which it was their decision, a political decision from the communal sphere. Maybe I'm just going to take advantage of the fact that I'm going to respond to Mr. Adamec when he's always been that way with the pirát as well as the inexperienced. There are many politicians among the pirát and here from the MP's club who have had experience of this, and, as Mr Luzar also mentioned, the very nature of our Members who have spoken here was about it, and Mr Luzar mentioned it, that there are many, I would say several thousand, municipal politicians who have a similar problem and unfortunately are not lucky to be protected by a Member's immunity. For us to start having fun - I will see how much time I have - to start having a momentary conversation in the future and to prevent this and this bullying, because in this case, Mr Růžička is obviously a bullying on the part of the Czech judiciary. I don't know how to call it that. But what can we do to improve it? So let's talk about how, for example, as legislators, we can improve the law on municipalities so that it is not so bullying for local politicians. And paradoxically, we are in paragraph 39, so it is Section 39 of the Municipalities Act, which deals with the sale of municipal property and the same price as usual. So it should be a gros, even though I know it has nothing to do with the points under discussion. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u47	I, too, thank you, and now I have received Mr Adamec's factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I guess the saying about a I didn't name pirát here. I really don't. So please don't use this on me. I wanted to respond to what Mr. Třešňák said last, but that was quite correct. We've already tried, I think, during the last term. And I called it a right-hand chatter behind the left ear, because I don't think it's working in practice, and I warned the mayor not to follow this bill too much, or the part that concerned the usual price. Otherwise, the usual price: yes, it should be determined by the market. But it's not a market price. The usual price has to be proven to be the market price. And that's the problem. And that's what's causing us the trouble that's here. And I say again, it's not for the two colleagues here, it's for the hundreds of mayors, hundreds, thousands of representatives that we can protect by this, that we'll give a clear signal to the public and to the prosecutors that they shouldn't act like that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u49	Thank you, too. We've exhausted the factual remarks, and I don't have any applications for the debate right now, and I don't even see anyone reporting to me from the scene. Mr. Mr. Kupka, from the point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u50	Good evening, dear colleagues. I will also offer the view of local politics, the mayor of the small community. I myself begin by saying that I will also vote against the extradition of Mr Růžička, because I am convinced that it is wrong that such a mischief has spread in the Czech Republic in the form of an avalanche of criminal prosecution of self-governing decisions. Why is that wrong? Well, because there's really a sense and a role of self-government in this game. One particular practical example. The statutory city of Kladno sold the barracks for one symbolic crown years ago. It would certainly be possible to criminalize it as it is today's example, or today's examples, but from the point of view of the decision of the self-government, it was absolutely appropriate because they sold the object to the Czech Technical University and made the statutory city Kladno university city and it serves very well. The self-governing decision in this regard must not be touched, that is the sense of self-government and the sense of democracy. And if we allow erosion to take place on the path of an avalanche of criminal prosecutions, then we really contribute to this and it can easily happen that one of the other important pillars of democracy will be swayed and challenged. That is also one of the essential reasons why I will vote as I vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u51	Thank you, too. At this point, I don't have any factual remarks, nor do I have anyone registered for the debate. I will check the O.R. again, but I do not see anyone reporting to me, so I am ending the general debate and I would like to ask the rapporteur and the plaintiff if they are interested in the final word. No. No proposals have been tabled, so we will proceed to a debate similar to that in which I have no applications, nor do I... Yes, this is the rapporteur. So, please, Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u52	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, as the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee said in his opening speech, at the end of the discussion of the proposal of the Municipal Court in Chomutov on the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute a Member... The District Court in Chomutov on expressing the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Pavel Růžička's mandate and immunity committee adopted resolution number 45, which was distributed to us in the benches. I hope you all have it in front of you. By voting, we will now decide on the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Pavel Růžička. I would like to say that because this debate has led to a long time on the mandate and immune committee - we always vote only on consent, so that it is clear how the vote of the Chamber of Deputies ended. The position of the mandate and immunity committee is communicated to you in the manner in which it has taken a stand for this. If the consent is not given, the relevant article of the Constitution of the Czech Republic is fulfilled and the consent of the Chamber of Deputies has not been expressed. So we should now vote on the proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies under Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 4 of Act No. 1/1993 Coll., the Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended, and pursuant to the provisions of Section 12 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, gives its consent to the criminal prosecution of Mr Ing. Pavel Růžička, born April 3, 1970." The rest of the motion is in the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee number 45, which has been distributed to you on the bench. I believe that there is no need to read this text because you all know it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-012-039.u53	Thank you. I will once again see if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate in detail. I'll ask the plaintiff and rapporteur if they want to hear the final words again. They don't, so we'll vote. I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. When I see thinned benches, I suggest we check out, so I'm asking everyone to come forward again. We will vote when the number of applicants is settled. For later arrivals, I repeat that we are now voting on the consent to the criminal prosecution of Mr Růžička. So, it looks like the number's settled. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Have they abstained? Thank you. The vote is over. In the vote number 62, 143 Members were enrolled, for they were 18, against 98. The order was rejected. Thank you, and that concludes this point. That's how we ended up putting forward points, and we're going to go back to the other points. So here's my point number.
