ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, and some other laws /house print 263/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft law will be introduced by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Madam Secretary, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the start of the second reading, I would just like to remind you that the draft law addresses acute problems in the medical opinion service. Two measures are proposed. The first measure is the transfer of doctors' advisory services from the Civil Service Act regime to the Labour Code, which will mean greater flexibility in providing these doctors. The second important measure is the transfer of health assessment for the purposes of administrative appeal in the field of non-insurable social benefits from the assessment commissions of MPSV to the Czech Social Security Administration, which will allow a more flexible response to problems in personnel situation in the medical assessment service as a result of synergy effects. [[17.50 hours]] I would also like to say that the draft law has been discussed by two committees to which the bill has been ordered, namely the Committee on Health and the Committee on Social Policy. Both committees supported the bill and recommended that the bill be approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u3	Thank you. The proposal was first ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee. The Committee on Health also dealt with the press. Committee resolutions are delivered as House prints 263/1 and 2. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, who is also the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of this proposal. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u4	Good evening. Mr President, Madam Minister, Members of the Government, honourable Members, fellow Members, let me introduce you to the debate of the House of Press 263 in the two committees. I will begin with the Committee on Guarantee, which was designated by the Committee on Social Policy. He dealt with this press at his 18th meeting on 2 October 2018. As the Minister has already mentioned, he has agreed to this proposal. I will read you the resolution on the Government Bill amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, and some other laws, House printing 263. After the justification of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, the report by Mr Vít Kaňkovský and after the debate by the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree with the Government's draft law amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, and some other laws, House printing 263, II. The Committee's rapporteur hereby authorises the Committee's opinion to be communicated to the Assembly of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. [[Mr Kaňkovsky draws attention to the next committee.]] That was one committee, a guarantee committee. And now, the rapporteur, who is the rapporteur of both committees, as I have announced, will familiarise us with the opinion of the second committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u6	As has already been said from the Minister's mouth, the Health Committee has discussed this press with a positive opinion. This took place at the 26th meeting on 26 September 2018. He adopted this resolution. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for the Management of the Social Insurance Systems Section of Iva Merhautová, the report by Mr Vít Kaňkovský and following the debate by the Health Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree with the Government's draft law amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, and some other laws, House printing 263. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur of both committees. I am now opening a general debate. Mrs Maxová is the first to be entered into the general debate, which I will give the floor to. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we can discuss the Government amendment to the Act on the organisation and implementation of social security, which, of course, concerns the issue of medical assessment services. Although we have heard that both the government and the rapporteur recommend that this amendment be approved and rereaded, given that I am quite intensively devoted to this issue and collect facts and figures, there are some doubts on the surface as to whether all proposals for change concerning medical assessment services are well designed. That is why I will be able to read two amendments in a detailed debate today. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] One amendment will concern the possibility of an appeal procedure. I'll explain why. The Government's proposal for an amendment to the Act on the organisation and implementation of social security translates the assessment of health status in the appeal administrative procedure on benefits for persons with disabilities, the identity of persons with disabilities and the contribution to care from the assessment commissions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to the Czech Social Security Administration. The aim is to shorten the management time by involving Czech Social Security Administration assessors who are now assessing only disability in opposition proceedings and introducing a monocratic assessment, which means that it will no longer be assessed by the Commission in the review procedure, but only one review doctor will judge it. In addition to the expected benefits, however, I see a certain risk in the adoption of this part of the amendment. People with disabilities who present an appeal in the future will lose the possibility of a more professional and careful Commission assessment. This will not be possible even in the review trial. The assessment of health status by the Ministry's expert committee is reserved only for the management of pension insurance matters. Where a party objects to a decision on benefits for persons with disabilities, a disability licence or an administrative action allowance, his/her health status shall not be reviewed by the assessment board as in the invalidity pension procedure. The court does not have and will not be authorised to request an opinion from the Ministry's expert committee, and it will only review the decision on a levy or licence in a legal or formal manner. In the event of a finding of defects in the proceedings, the most frequently inadequate justification of the decision, is merely to repeal the contested decision and to refer the case back to a renegotiation, which means a further extension of the procedure. If the court had an expert assessment of the Ministry's opinion, the appeal authority in the repealing decision could already commit a legal opinion on the assessment of the state of health of the party to the proceedings and the judicial proceedings would be faster and more effective.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u9	Madam, I'm sorry. I'm just gonna ask my colleagues to keep their voice down again and we can all listen to what you're saying. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u10	Thank you. Persons with disabilities would thus receive a significantly more effective means of defence in judicial review in case of dissatisfaction with the decision. The above limited possibility of judicial review, together with the fact that in both instances the health status of the applicant will effectively be assessed by a doctor from the same office, i.e. the Czech Social Security Administration, in the opinion of the petitioners, justify the introduction of a health assessment by a review committee at least in the review proceedings for benefits for persons with disabilities, a disability card and a care allowance. For the sake of completeness, I would like to state that, at the beginning of the Act on Benefits for Persons with Disabilities, such assessment was carried out by the review panel at the request of the Court of Justice. However, once the courts found that it lacked legal authority, they began to retreat from this practice. The introduction of this assessment should not result in a substantial personnel burden for the assessment committees. The explanatory memorandum to the law shows that the assessments for judicial review proceedings represent only 5 to 10 per cent of the existing activities of the Ministry's expert commissions. A similar burden can be expected in the case of assessment activities for the above non-insurable benefits and licences for disabled persons. This amendment, which will be under No. 1489 therefore gives greater legal certainty to clients who want to appeal so that they can have a better representation and a better decision. [[18.00 hours]] Second amendment under No 1514, which I'm going to apply to later, is a bit of a different wound. Given the state of affairs of the medical assessment service, the Czech Social Security Administration and at the same time the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the assessment committees, it has led me to propose this amendment, because at present both the Czech Social Security Administration and the Czech Social Security Administration...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u11	I'll also ask your fellow Members from your club not to disturb you in your speech. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u12	Both the situation of the Czech Social Security Administration, medical assessment services and the assessment committees of the Ministry of Labour. These are two institutions where crisis management is currently ordered, because neither institution can handle benefits. And we are putting two institutions in crisis management into one institution with double crisis management. The review committee at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs had about 9,000 pending applications in September, 6,000 after extended deadline for processing. And we want to move this institution, a review committee that is not following our work, to the Czech Social Security Administration, which also has crisis management. That is why it has led me to propose an amendment, where I will request the abolition of the articles in this amendment from the point of view of the risks I will bring to you here. There is a risk of further increase in under-payments and extension of the length of the examination procedure in the district social security administrations - introduced from 1. 2. 2018 crisis solution with more than 50 000 pending requests with a monthly idea of less than 35 000 requests with remedies pending after the legal deadline. For another, there is a further increase in underwork on the review committees. As of 31. 8. As I said, 9,000 applications have not been dealt with, after a period of 6,000 requests, with a total idea of 20,000 applications per year. Another - may threaten non-compliance with the principle of equality. While county officials are left in the 8th grade, second instance officials, i.e. opposition, are in the 9th grade. The newly established positions of expert assistant assessor in the first and second instance are in the 10th grade, but the secretary of evaluation commissions of the Ministry are in the 11th grade. If this amendment were approved, from 1. 1. 2019 will be all these positions that I have appointed to perform a comparablely complex agenda. Another risk - non-compliance with the principle of equality with doctors. It will be necessary to ensure the application of the same principle of equality at least between doctors in the department of medical assessment services, which is the workplace of the Czech Social Security Administration, and doctors transferred from the assessment commissions of the Ministry of Labour. But given the fact that a number of doctors in the district administration are in the 13th grade and are forced to so-called. assist in the second stage of opposition, so it would be necessary to transfer the tested doctor to the 14th grade. Additional risk - inability to ensure the smooth running of insurance and non-insurable medical assessment service agendas in the event of the transfer of assessment committees without the current transfer of previously undefined wage and operating resources. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Other risk - unsolved structure of the organisation of work, higher time intensity of methodological and control activities without knowledge so called. non-insurable agendas -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u13	Madam, I will interrupt you again, and I ask my colleagues, this time in the left side of this hall, to create the conditions for your performance to be completed. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Additional risk - in the event of a different dislocation reduced the possibility of operational exploitation of the employee's workforce and the resulting potential risk of further failure to pay. Seventh, which is overall a major problem of the Ministry of Labour and the Czech Social Security Administration - yet unsecured IT application support for medical assessment service, let alone from 1. 1. 2019 followed by a further increase in pending applications after a legal period. Further - in the file documentation only written opinions of the Ministry's assessment commissions, limited use of available data and extension of the length of the assessment procedure if necessary use of two separate applications for medical assessment service. The expected reduction in the effectiveness and performance of the medical assessment service due to the need to address uncertainties, so far lack of methodology, and thus risks further risk of maladministration. There is also an unwillingness from the available sources to move to the Czech Social Security Administration, i.e. further deepening the personnel crisis of medical evaluation services and further increase of pending requests, or even after a legal period. Last but not least - people with disabilities who present an appeal in the future will lose the possibility of a more professional and careful Commission assessment. This will not be possible even in the review trial. Assessment of the health status of assessment commissions of the Ministry of Labour is reserved only for the management of pension insurance matters. Therefore, I do not recommend the transfer of these assessment committees to the structure of the Czech Social Security Administration for a high degree of unpreparedness and, above all, to endanger the rights of applicants for health assessment. Before transferring the opinion board from the Ministry of Labour to the Czech Administration, it is necessary to stabilise the new systematicisation in the departments of medical assessment services in all district social security administrations as well as in the departments of medical assessment centres of the Czech Social Security Administration, especially in the case of doctors, referents and expert assistants of assessors in terms of both personnel and wage. And I would remind you that there's been a crisis procedure here at medical assessment service since 1. 2. 2018. It is also necessary to stabilise the situation on the Ministry's expert committees, where crisis management is again taking place from 1. 6. 2018. For these reasons, which I have put forward, I would then ask you to support these two amendments, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u15	Thank you, Madame. Mrs Kateřina Valachová apologises from 17.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mrs Malá apologizes from 18 o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons. We are continuing the general debate. Mr Sklenák is now registered. Mrs Pekarová Adamová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I, too, present to you the amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. This amendment postpones the introduction of an electronic disability. As you probably know, this institute is in place in our legal order and should be effective from 1 January 2019, i.e. in two months' time. Unfortunately, the situation is that technically this area is not ready. And here, too, in the Chamber of Deputies, we have had a rather extensive debate on this issue in the press meeting 204. Unfortunately, we were looking for the culprit of the situation rather than looking for a solution. And the discussion of the 204 press, which is now delaying or canceling the introduction of an electronic disability so that it does not become effective on 1 January, is in such a state of discussion that we have not even finished the first reading yet, even though we received the press before the holidays. That is why I propose by my amendment to resolve this issue precisely when it comes to discussing this press. So the proposal I'm going to apply to is to postpone the introduction of an electronic disability by one year, i.e. from 1 January 2019 to 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u17	Thank you. Mrs Pekarová Adamová will continue to speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, only briefly to the speaker, by your means, Mr President. Well, that's a beautiful example of the sticker we have here on this law. Because you may not be able to push through the classic novel what you want, so you're using this as a carrier for this change. So just so we know what we've just been told here. However, to the substance of the matter itself and to the problem that this amendment is intended to address. Just yesterday, I had a visit from my I.D. during the parliamentary day, and I'm not going to name it, of course, but let's call it Marie. And Mrs. Marie had a daddy, an oncologically ill patient who, at the time he asked for a change of care allowance, had already been in serious condition. And as you know, the story won't end well, because before his claim was assessed, he died. And the care allowance to him for the fourth degree, to which he would certainly be entitled, could not be increased in his lifetime. Thus, his survivors had to bear the problem not only with the difficult situation of a serious health condition and the departure of their loved one, but also with other related things as their own burden. And this is one of many cases. This is, of course, one of the many that I'm sure many of you have also heard a number of that we're talking about here, not this first year of this House, but we've been talking very intensely on the Social Committee during the last parliamentary term. We had this point listed, I think about six months, and maybe even in this case, I won't exaggerate if I say what I say for a quarter. And we are still in this situation that these things happen, that citizens who are in these difficulties do not get what they would be entitled to in time. We still haven't been able to move forward and get this situation in better shape. On the contrary, in this case, it's getting worse. And as for the medical opinion service, the doctors who work in it, we are really getting into what we are already many, and especially the Social Committee chair, the current chair is very intensive about it, and I have to thank the President for his great interest in the issue, even though it is from the opposition, but in this regard I really do not care who we are in which club, so I have to say that we are really intensive about it and we are talking about it. And once again, we have a novel that we hear about from a person who is very intensely devoted to it, that it will actually be completely dysfunctional. And I would like to know from the Minister whether he is able to guarantee that the change he is proposing in this amendment will really lead to an improvement in the situation and that the Czech Social Security Administration is so prepared for this task, which is really very complex and which has been neglected for years, rather unsolved, to accept if it really works. So that we don't spill the baby with the bathtub and get into the state that instead of talking about the people I was talking about at the beginning of my contribution, instead of helping them, we're gonna make it worse, and we're actually gonna make the problem worse. I think that many of us will realize the dimension of this problem just when these specific cases get to it, when it is not the number of 9,000 unfinished ones, but where it is the particular fate of a particular person who cannot wait to get this help if I put it this way. I think that this is a matter that is very fundamental, and we should pay maximum attention to it. Therefore, regardless of the fact that I would like to whistle this dispute within the coalition here, because I see it as a kind of dispute in how the solution is supposed to look, I would really like to know the relevance of the issue, and if we are able to actually move it to the desired effect after all these years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u19	Mrs Maxová will speak with a point of fact. Then, with priority rights, Minister Maláčová is enrolled in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to thank Mrs Pekarová, of course, for appreciating the work of the Social Committee. And I'd like to put it right - I don't see it as a dispute. I just see it as a different view of the functioning of the medical assessment service, or rather not working, and on the evaluation committees. I'll take that as a matter of fact. If it's a coalition dispute, it's a coalition dispute about, like, a quarantine period or backed-up maintenance, but this is really a heart thing for me. I am doing this, and with a very clear conscience, I really am putting forward both amendments, so that it is good for people with disabilities, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u21	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u22	Thank you. I've already announced it at the first reading, and I indicated it today at the beginning. Basically, this amendment deals with the resolution of the emergency state of medical assessment service. I was appointed to the post on July 30th, and at the end of the year we end up with an exception for medical examiners under the Civil Service Act. This means that I had a very short period of time to resolve this acute condition. At the same time, I advised the Social Committee that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and we know about these problems, are very fundamental and cannot really be underestimated that we will be preparing a comprehensive reform of the medical assessment service in the course of the next year. But at this point, we're really averting a situation where the medical evaluation service would collapse to 1. 1. As far as Mrs Maxová's amendments are concerned, there I would like to say that we agree with one or the other amendment. The amendments are mutually exclusive. Madam Speaker knows. If the MPSV Board were to remain on the MPSV and, at the same time, a review procedure or an assessment for the courts would be introduced, the same MPSV medical assessment committee would be revised to the same instance, i.e. an appeal instance. They would therefore revise their own assessments. So that's why you can support either one or the other. As far as the preparations for moving places are concerned, this is, of course, being prepared in the framework of systemization. And the systemization will be approved by the government in November. As far as the general crisis in the Medical Assessment Service is concerned, it should be stressed that the main reason is that we do not have enough doctors. And that's really a long run. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u23	Thank you. Mrs Pekarová Adamová and Mrs Maxová will respond with factual comments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u24	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I was expecting this kind of attitude that you, Madam Secretary, were only briefly in the Ministry. However, the Social Democrats have had the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for the fifth year now. Yes, there was a break for some time, when it was the YES movement that had the Minister Mrs Němcová, but also last term it was the Ministry that controlled your party. And even in the last parliamentary term, this problem was known. Even then we said, we all agreed on the Social Committee that we were going to have a crisis and that we need to get started as quickly as possible and to start dealing with it in a really systemic way. And once again, all we have here is that in such a short time, we couldn't have prepared anything better. So what did the Ministry do for four years to prevent this crisis from happening, or to at least try to alleviate it? I believe that the problem has been identified long enough for us to not only be able to deal with the fact that we are pushing back some future crisis into the next year and that we are again going to be promising some system-wide amendment that will finally solve the problem once and for all. We've been hearing that for years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u25	Thank you. Mrs Maxová and her factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u26	Thank you. I would like to respond to the lack of doctors in the medical assessment service because our Minister Němcová introduced crisis management 1. 2. 2018 thanks to the fact that there were several thousand delays after the deadline, which is, of course, unacceptable. And due to the right financial motivation, these failures were eliminated. And at the moment, if the medical examiners have the right information, it's that medical examiners are actually prosecuting everything right now. It has even happened that even expert assistants of assessors who were recruited to strengthen this agenda to be dealt with more quickly, they do not set a standard because they have nothing to do. [[18.20 hours]] So now the question really arises is whether if the medical assessment service and the review committee are properly managed, whether we really have a lack of doctors, or if it is correct - the management of this whole system is wrong. We will, of course, discuss this next week on the Social Committee, because this is the current situation in the medical assessment service. They have nothing to do with doctors because they prosecuted everything, were well motivated, and the assistants have no standards because they can't actually take the job of doctors' review services. So a bit of a vicious circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u27	Thank you. Is there still an interest in speaking in the general debate? It's not. I am ending the general debate. Madam Secretary, rapporteur, are you interested in the final word? No. Initiating, opening up a detailed debate. In a detailed debate, Mrs Maxová is the first to sign up. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u28	Thank you. As I announced in the general debate, I would like to sign up for the amendment under number 1489 and under number 1514.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u29	Thank you. Mr Sklenák will also speak in a detailed debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u30	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for Amendment 1525, which I presented here in the general debate, and I do not think, unlike Mrs Pekarová, that this is an adhesive. My amendment addresses the area of sickness insurance, and therefore it has something to do with the social security agenda, although I admit, of course, that the content does not completely affect the original draft. At the same time, I will take advantage of the fact that I have the floor, and I would like to propose a reduction in the deadline for the third reading to seven days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-30-ps2017-020-05-007-009.u31	Yes, thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? I don't see anyone. I am ending the debate in detail. Is there any interest in the final words from the rapporteur or the Minister? There's no interest in the final word. In a detailed debate, there was one proposal that we will now deal with in the vote. It was Mr Sklenák's proposal to shorten the deadline for third reading to a maximum of seven days. I'll call in the Members who are in the foyer. I see a motion to unsubscribe. I've checked you all out, please sign up with your voting cards again. Now we're... we're not ready for a vote. We're ready. Yes, now they've all been able to sign up with the voting cards. We are voting to shorten the deadline for the third reading to seven days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 148. Registered 138 Members, for 122, versus 12. The motion was accepted. We have reduced the deadline for third reading to seven days. Thank you, Minister. I thank the rapporteur and end the second reading of this proposal. Initiating item discussion
