ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u1	29. Government bill amending Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on Recording of Sales, as amended, and Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended / House print 205/ - First Reading I will ask you, ladies and gentlemen, for a calm and atmosphere that will enable us to address this point, which we interrupted on Wednesday, September 12, in the general debate. Alena Schillerová is already taking the position of Secretary of Finance at the rapporteur's desk. And because Mr Pavel Juříček apologized to the rapporteur for first reading, and there is a proposal for Mr Jan Volný to become rapporteur for first reading. We will have to vote on this change. Because some colleagues and colleagues have already left, I'm calling them back to the hall. We will be voting on the fact that Mr Jan Volný will be the rapporteur for first reading instead of Mr Juříček. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number 96. Registered 177 Members, for 154, against no one. The proposal has been adopted and the rapporteur for first reading is Mr Jan Volný, whom I ask to take the position at the rapporteur's table. We will now continue with the general debate in which Mr Marek Benda will be the first to speak, followed by Mr Kupka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I merely remind my fellow Members that we have interrupted this point precisely because there was no atmosphere in the Chamber of Deputies in the Chamber of Deputies for us to continue. Surely it is not in the interest of any of us to continue this, so I beg you to calm down and create appropriate conditions. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u2	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, I will, of course, continue what I have tried to tell you from the minority position of the Constitutional Court, and I will be so generous to this House that I will not read it all again. Just the passages I didn't finish. However, in view of Mr. Prime Minister's follow-up press conference, allow me not to forgive the two brief remarks that I consider fair to be made in this House. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] One. The Prime Minister was upset at a subsequent press conference about me sitting here for 26 years and why I was speaking to him until his reign. So I'd like to warn him that I've been sitting here for 14 years. And without wanting to touch Vice-President Filip, who is an enthusiastic supporter and expressed his confidence in the government -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u3	Ladies and gentlemen - I apologise, Mr Member - again I urge you, this time very strongly, to stop talking out loud so as to stop creating a noisy in the House and create the conditions for the Member to make his arguments and for those who are interested to hear them too. Thank you. Ambassador, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm gonna finish this part of the idea. Angry at me because of the fact that I have been sitting here for a long time, in a situation, as I say, with all due respect to Vice-President Filip, who supports the Prime Minister and expressed his confidence in his government, sits here much longer, so it's kind of fake. Second thing. To feel that just because I, as Prime Minister, have decided to push through some electronic record of sales that will touch all the businessmen in this country, hundreds of thousands of people, so that no one can stop me from doing this, no one can keep me from doing it, I won't talk to anyone about it, because I once managed to get through this because of the gross violation of all the rules of the Chamber of Deputies, and now we're going to approve the third and fourth wave automatically, and it's not going to be a problem, as the Minister repeatedly says, the Constitutional Court has only postponed the third and fourth wave... Well, he didn't postpone it, he canceled it, like we explained last time. Of course, it was abolished for more formal reasons, but also because, in the form in which it was approved, it was not in accordance with the Constitution, it was unconstitutional. So I think it's really fair for us to be about this fundamental standard - and I think my colleagues will be coming in a moment with numbers that will show how much it costs every businessman, how much it'll cost every businessman for the future, what the revenues are for the state, and if it makes any sense for us to bother all the active people in this country just to confirm the ego of the Prime Minister. So many comments on the press conference, which was responded especially to my person. And now, allow me to continue with the presentation of a minority separate vote of a group of five constitutional judges. Article III. Prior to the introduction of the EET - in particular, I ask the government and all the supporters to listen carefully - the state should therefore be honest and very thorough in examining whether all the less invasive and harassing options available to it to control the correct and fair collection of taxes have been exhausted. However, none of this has happened in the present case, although the introduction of an EET clearly constitutes an additional administrative and financial burden on the business activities of entrepreneurs. Sticking to the mere fact that the introduction of the EET is very likely to lead to an increase in tax collection - a measure that will stand up to the test of reasonableness - and therefore will also stand up from a constitutionally legal point of view, it is very dangerous and exploitable. The introduction of the EET under the publicly presented, albeit empirically unsubstantiated political impression that no one pays taxes, and therefore it is appropriate to tighten their selection, namely, we consider it equally unreasonable and unfair in our consequences, as leaving the whole class behind the school just because one student disturbed at an hour. Unfortunately, this entry is a fundamental philosophy of the contested law and it is not solvable by eliminating only a few of its most vicious interventions in privacy and freedom of business. Therefore, when assessing the constitutionality of the EET system, the Constitutional Court should not be satisfied with a rationality test, but should have subjected it to a far more stringent proportionality test. However, in general, the laws which affect economic, social and cultural rights referred to in Article 2 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union apply. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 1 The Charter, when examining a possible conflict with constitutional order, is measured only by a milder test of rationality, does not always apply this rule. In particular, the following three cases: Case (a) In the procedure under the rationality test, we conclude at the second step that legal regulation negates the core of constitutionally guaranteed economic law, denies its very existence, substance or purpose. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 4 The Charter, so that constitutional guarantees of economic rights cannot be entirely negated by law, because otherwise their constitutional regulation would lack any practical meaning. Similarly, the Constitutional Court has already expressed itself in the decision of the Constitutional Court 54/10, so called. Card times II, about social rights. Point (b) The line between fundamental human rights and economic and social rights is unscathed, so sometimes interference with economic law also means interference with fundamental human rights, which is logically and functionally linked to it. For example. the right to engage in and engage in other economic activities, Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Decision Imanent part of ownership is the right to possess, dispose of, buy, sell, rent or otherwise burden with own property, i.e. to manage it. Therefore, legal interference with the right to conduct a business may also be a significant intervention in the right of ownership. For example, a negative expression of such intervention can be a negative expression. setting the maximum prices for which an entrepreneur may sell his goods or regulating the rent that the lessor may require from the tenants. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 2 The Charter is also merely another expression of the fundamental right to do all that is not prohibited by law. Punkt c) The apparent legal regulation of economic law hides interference with fundamental human law, which is clearly unrelated to the economic law in question. Examined legal regulation, which is associated with economic law, virtually. social or cultural law interferes - for example, beyond gratitude - with one of the fundamental rights that we can identify as genuine fundamental rights - ownership rights, information self-determination, equality on occasion. We believe that the EET case under consideration met at least the first and third for the above reasons why it should have been subjected to a proportionality test. [[12.00 hours]] First, the contested legislation, in the case of small businessmen, affects the very nature of the right to engage in business and to provide resources for their living needs in their work. The boundary between the right to enter into business and the right to work is not quite clear, since the business of an independent businessman or a member of a free profession is often just another way of implementing his right to work. The electronic record of sales for small businesses thus directly affects the cores of their right to acquire resources for their living needs of work, because their administrative complexity and the technical difficulty of a separate business for many, less exposed individuals, is essentially excluded. Secondly, in the introduction of electronic sales records, interference with the right to protection against unauthorised interference in private life and unauthorised collection of human data is implied. IV. We therefore believe that the State has introduced an electronic record of sales without making an honest use of all the options and instruments it already had. For example: If 400 new officials have to be accepted in connection with the introduction of electronic sales records, see the explanatory memorandum to the law, wasn't the House press 513/0, was it far more appropriate to devote this human potential to greater intensity of the current addressed tax controls? All the more so, the existing technical possibilities allowed the Financial Administration, even without electronic sales records, to identify suspicious tax entities and target them in subsequent checks. However, we do not deny that the introduction of electronic sales records can actually result in higher tax returns compared to the previous situation, this cannot be expected to occur to a greater extent in relation to the total tax revenue of the State. Indeed, none of this results from the official statement of the Ministry of Finance, and the increase in tax collection granted is rather marginal compared to total tax revenues. We consider this to be very important in the use of the constitutional test of rationality, respectively. proportionality in assessing interventions in constitutionally guaranteed fundamental rights. In line with the position of the appellants, we consider that the introduction of the EET constitutes a very significant intervention in the rights of the parties concerned. As mentioned above, this is primarily about ownership, the right to freely engage in business, equality and intervention in information self-determination. The introduction of the EET represents a new financial cost for each entrepreneur. These costs are not one-off, as they might appear at first sight. This is not only about the acquisition of the equipment, but also about monthly payments for the software used and other difficult to quantify costs. Accounting, training of employees, receipt paper, etc. It is clear that much more these costs affect small-scale entrepreneurs who achieve a small turnover and, in many cases, have such costs that income tax does not apply at all, but for example. They employ employees and pay other taxes, so they are definitely not stowaways of our tax or social system. An example of this is the market where cheap products are sold, but for each of them a separate receipt must be issued. We also remind you that often one entrepreneur is not enough with one technical device, but must have more such equipment if he is doing, for example. in several small stores at the same time. In other words, this is a typical example of a fundamentally different intervention in the legal status of different entities in the absence of a measure. We even argue that the introduction of electronic sales records logically affects mainly the smallest traders, because they are mainly paid in cash. Lapidally speaking: a taxpayer providing goods or services to a large number of clients, but only in small value, will logically be in a significantly more disadvantageous position than a taxpayer who will only have a few of those clients. Not to mention that the EET does not at all concern cash-free payments, which legal regulation always requires when it comes to higher amounts than EUR 10,000 - see the cust. No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and the financing of terrorism. Thus, more significant payments are excluded from the EET scheme and, on the contrary, all payments remain in this system, which are often completely marginal. Paradoxically, the electronic record of sales from the nature of the case is focused mainly on smaller taxpayers and more significantly affects those of them who have less or even no profit. For small entrepreneurs, this is not only about immediate financial costs, but also about the burden on the entrepreneur of other worries, which he already has over his head. Nor can it be overlooked that older smaller entrepreneurs, without computer knowledge and online connection, are disposed of by law as a class. The majority opinion that they should accept that they are victims of the fourth industrial revolution, as mentioned in paragraph 79 of the finding, then sounds quite insensitive in this context. For the reasons set out above, we also strongly disagree with the argument in paragraph 67, the reasoning of the finding that the Act on Recording of Sales does not entail any tax or other obligation which directly and purposefully affects the property sphere of those to whom the registration obligation affects. This claim is not true. After all, the legislator himself stated in Law No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, a one-off tax discount of 5,000. CZK, because he was aware of the financial burden on entrepreneurs. However, we note that this discount does not address anything significant: it is small, it does not concern everyone and it is only one-off and input, while the EET management is a permanent measure and the costs of its operation are ongoing. The state thus transfers its obligations to entrepreneurs, which it has in tax collection, without reasonable compensation. Another situation would e.g. it was, if the State would reduce each year the costs actually incurred for the operation of the EET, but in the form of a genuine tax discount and not merely a deductible load. The important social dimension of entrepreneurship, in particular services, small shops or rural pubs, which, honestly and rightly grasped, not only benefits entrepreneurs, but also enables their citizens to meet, lead social life and improve the quality of their lives. Another deficit introduced by the EET consists of intervention in information self-determination. We refer here accordingly to the conclusions of the Federal Constitutional Court in Rasterfahndung - BvR 518/02, freely translated as a racist prosecution or investigation - with which the reference found of the Constitutional Court sp. stamp. Pl. ÚS 24/10 and defining the right to information self-determination as the right of everyone to protection against unlimited acquisition, storage, use and transmission of individualised data. It is even stated explicitly that preventive police investigation is also compatible with the right to information self-determination only if a specific threat is given to significant legal values such as the security of the State or the threat to the life or freedom of an individual, and this risk cannot be regarded as a foreign policy international situation that occurred after 11 September 2001. [[12.10 hours]] Although it is true that the record of sales does not really significantly expand the scope of the data provided, it cannot be overlooked at the same time that a fundamental change occurred at the rate of provision, availability and centralisation of this information. As a result, this leads to a stronger intervention in the right to information self-determination and thus increases the potential risk of abuse. It is clear from the nature of the matter that information has a different price in time, so it is indeed a fundamental difference between the fact that entrepreneurs are obliged to provide information about their activities only once a year, when submitting income tax returns or online. In this context, there is neither the importance nor the aspect of mandatory confidentiality associated with the performance of certain activities and professions - typically doctors, lawyers or tax advisors. The introduction of the EET involves a flat-rate intervention in this obligation as the Financial Administration will have on-line information about the payments made to clients of these specific professions. It is precisely the fact that it is information on-line, in some cases it can lead to the identification of clients and specific services provided. Another risk of the EET system lies in its misuse. Through this system, there is a concentration of sensitive business information in one place. Although it cannot be based on the a prior premise of the dishonesty of the state administration, it cannot be assumed at the same time that concentrated data on tax payers will never be abused in any way. Punkt V. In conclusion, for all the above reasons, we consider the contested law to be unconstitutional, and the proposed proposal should therefore be fully granted. If the Constitutional Court intends to tolerate, with reference to a rationality test, even so strong and undiferenced interventions in the business environment and in the fundamental rights of tax entities, the question is what role it intends to continue to play in the constitutional system. The optimism of his review should be the opposite: not the insistence that further regulation and restrictions will still stand, because, after all, he may bring more money on the taxes collected, but whether it is really necessary. In other words, it is not only the right to freely engage in the matter, but also fundamental rights - ownership, protection of privacy. So the Constitutional Court should have consistently applied a proportionality test instead of a sensible test. And then press the button, even against the first two stages of EET implementation. In Brno, 12 December 2017 five judges of the Constitutional Court: Vojtěch Šimíček - without title please, Jaromír Jirsa, Tomáš Lichovník, Kateřina Šimáčková, David Uhlíř. I wanted to read this text to you because I consider it quite fundamental and summing up all the reservations that have gone away in those repeated first, second, third readings throughout the last parliamentary term, and pointing out how electronic record of sales really is a tool that only increases the power of the state over all taxpayers. I was hoping that even on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, the government would once again go through the need to really introduce the first, second wave, third, fourth wave, consider whether it was worth it. It turned out that, as I have quoted here several times, the Prime Minister's ego is too strong in this situation, and his efforts to remain on the model that he has put forward remain at all costs. I am very surprised that supporters, whether on the part of social democracy or even perhaps the Communist Party, although there I am never sure whether they are in opposition, in a semi-position or coalition, that they are nodding to the government for this matter to be discussed. The Social Democrats here today, the day before yesterday, declared on Wednesday that they would therefore be in favour of increasing the border, but that it seems to them now that they will let it go, but then they will be making amendments. I don't know who remembers the last term here, how many times the KDU-ČSL people here, in particular, repeatedly re-voted in government, have desperately declared that they are voting for it now, but in two weeks, in three Sundays, they will propose a compromise proposal. I advise all coalition partners to be extremely careful about this. The Prime Minister never approaches any compromise proposals. Once you give him something, you'll never take it out of his hands again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u5	Thank you, too. I've got a note here. Vice-President Hanzel apologizes to us until the end of the day for working reasons. And I don't know if it was loaded, so let me remind you that President Stanjura has apologized by the end of the day for health reasons. Now, please, another one entered in the debate, which is Mr Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to add a few arguments to the discussion on further waves of electronic sales records. A colleague, Mr Marek Benda, has put here several fundamental arguments of the Constitutional Court, which is undoubtedly an institution whose views we should listen to. I will add one more important opinion, which undoubtedly has authority too, and that is the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office. The Audit Committee had the opportunity last week to get acquainted with the opinion on the draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic. In the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office, there are also several serious facts regarding electronic records of sales. I would like to quote literally from what the Supreme Audit Office states in its opinion when assessing how the government has coped with the evaluation of the impact of electronic sales records as well as control reports. It says literally: "The estimated effects of the measures introduced differed significantly in the various documents of the Ministry of Finance. The credibility of these data is questionable because different values are published in the materials for which the method of calculation is not explained and are not supported by an analysis of specific data." This is the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office when it deals with how the Ministry of Finance evaluates the actual effects of the introduction of electronic sales records. According to the Ministry of Finance's documents, the variance of what might be the real impact varies from CZK 3 billion to CZK 5.5 billion. In the last few days, we have heard the Prime Minister say several times that the impact last year could have been up to CZK 10 billion, which is another new issue. However, in the last days of the Prime Minister's presentation of economic indicators, I am very frightened because last week, for example, he bragged about the mayor's meeting that last year the Czech Republic's account, the Czech Republic's economy, the surplus, ended. However, the government draft final account of the Czech Republic for 2017 states that the deficit is CZK 6.2 billion. The deficit is a bit different than the surplus, as the Prime Minister says. So, in this context, I am afraid that it can also be debatable with an estimate of the impact of electronic sales records. And there is indeed a difference between a deficit of CZK 6.2 billion and an announced surplus, as the Prime Minister mentioned. Similarly, with the Ministry of Finance's data, the variance between 3 billion and 10 billion reported by the Prime Minister represents a rather serious mathematical difference. So at the moment when we have to decide what will happen to hundreds of thousands of businessmen and small entrepreneurs, I would expect that we will be able to decide on the basis of rigorous data, on the basis of something that can be relied on and where the methodology is quite obvious, where we know what we are dealing with and what the real impact of the first waves is. It's a basic requirement. It is mentioned by the Constitutional Court when it calls for a detailed impact analysis to be carried out by the government before further negotiations on the extension of electronic sales records. [[12.20 hours]] At this point, I would like to ask the Minister once again to carry out such an analysis, where there would be a clear methodology of analysis, which we could lean on and which would also be adjusted for the effect of this, fortunately, of significant economic growth, so that it is clear not what brought about the growth of the economy, but what specifically brought about the electronic record of sales. It is certainly not a simple analysis, but at a time when it is a serious decision that should be made here in the Chamber of Deputies, we should certainly deserve such an impact analysis. And that is not so much political as rational, as a real impact assessment and data assessment that should prevent any decision by the Chamber of Deputies. Then there are some serious political arguments. For a number of the smallest entrepreneurs and businessmen, it has recently been a very unfortunate report that the state is opposed to them. Two days ago, we had the opportunity to raise the limit for spending flats, the government, the state actually opposed the smallest having some relief. In addition, the next steps associated with the increase in bureaucracy, because electronic sales records meant an increase in bureaucracy and in the proposals that are now in our hands in connection with the third and fourth waves, are other bureaucratic inventions and other issues that would make life more complicated for entrepreneurs again, even in writing, in the form of paper. So I would like to ask again for a re-evaluation of the proposal, a clear and accurate analysis of the real impact, so that we can all, whether we are from government or opposition parties, decide on the basis of relevant figures, relevant data. So that those who mostly do not want anything from the state, on the contrary, do not have to put their trades on the nail, that the state turned against them, that life began to complicate them more, instead of simplifying their way to business. And I am talking, of course, about the honest entrepreneurs, which were also affected by the electronic record of sales. In my opinion, it is the majority, the vast majority of those who do business in the Czech Republic and who pay taxes. At the moment when the state commits a major breakthrough and starts to pursue it in this way, it starts to turn its back on the active ones in this way, so it simply threatens to lose not only people's tax revenues, but to significantly disrupt the important atmosphere of active and active people in society. And that is an impact that no simple economic analysis can assess, but the real long-term impact of such a change in the atmosphere in society is much more serious. And I consider this not only in terms of economic, but especially in terms of social, political in terms of further development of the Czech Republic as an even more important argument. Once again, I ask all those who decide on further waves of electronic sales records to assess this with a critical view, not ideological, but to evaluate both the exact data that I hope the Ministry of Finance will deliver, as well as the risk of changing the atmosphere in society, the risk that the state will in this way poison the most active ones, who mean not only important tax income to it, but who, of course, also mean important support for it, reinforcement within the company. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u7	Thank you, too. And next up, I have Mrs Vrecionová in the debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u8	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Mr Vice-President. A great number of arguments have already been made against the EET here. I consider them very relevant, and I would ask you very much to think about them. I would like to contribute to some of the arguments relating to the implementation of the EET and which have an impact on the countryside. I'm gonna talk about the country because I'm the chairman of the Rural Recovery Clave. Next week, like every year, we organize the National Venkov Conference at Moravia. In fact, for several years, we have also been dealing with this topic in connection with the problem of rural depopulation. I don't think I need to convince anyone of this fact that's really happening. It has been sounding constantly in public space for several years. Of course, I know there are many reasons. It's not just the Czech Republic. This concerns all of Europe, perhaps most of the world. However, we may all be interested in keeping our Czech and Moravian countryside populated, so that people do not move to cities to this extent, and for this there is a need to create a number of conditions. I only want to talk about the one that concerns this topic today, and that is the preservation of services in the countryside, because we have a huge problem with that. After the introduction of the first, second wave - and we, together with our colleagues from the Civic Democratic Party and others, warned that it would happen that, in this particular case, it was mainly about pubs, pubs, shops, closing - this, of course, happened. I agree, of course, that taxes should be paid, but in this case you really went with a mosquito gun, because in most cases it was people who employ only themselves or their family members, and basically you drove them out of the market in this way, not because they wanted to avoid taxes, but because it is simply a very complicated and complicated tool. Instead of thinking about it, because I think it's perfectly satisfactory for these little businessmen to pay taxes, it would be a flat-rate increase, which we were trying to do, a moment ago, a colleague named Kupka, you are actually rejecting this very simplest instrument for an incomprehensible reason. In fact, I would like to say that now some of the tradesmen in the fields that you want to hit with the third and fourth waves remain in the countryside. I don't know why the state doesn't really focus on large tax evasion, why it treats the only active people in the country who are going to miss it very much in this case. As a result, it will not only be things that you've managed to achieve that, by the way, Marek Benda has been pointing that out, centralizing information, which I think may be useful to somebody. There's been a huge swelling of the state, there's been a break-up of society, you've been fussing about small people, you're putting small ones against big ones, you're putting businessmen against employees here. Maybe somebody in politics could use it. But what you have achieved specifically in the countryside, and a number of regions are already coming up with it, is that they have to come up with subsidies to maintain, for example, the commercial service of the countryside, even a number of mayors are beginning to think about how they will sell rolls - that is, municipal socialism - as they will have to replace these services. And that's why I don't think the mayor or the municipal office is here. [[12.30 hours]] Please nicely, I would love to - and I was very concerned when one of your colleagues here on Wednesday, who is a supporter of the EET, began to talk about how a huge pile of dishonesty is here. I don't know where he gets the numbers. And another thing is that I was really struck by the Prime Minister's press conference, where he was actually scaring the mayor by losing a billion crowns. Those numbers are completely pulled out of her finger, she absolutely can't be justified, and I think it's completely inappropriate to scare people in the country and mayors before the election. Please, I'd very much like to appeal to you to... The draft that we are discussing here today basically responds in a completely cosmetic way to what you are going to continue to support. Be kind and please don't support it and don't engage another wave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u9	I also thank you, and I have Mr Ferjenčík in the debate as the next one. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u10	Thank you for the floor. My esteemed colleagues, I was motivated by the comment of my fellow Volný from the debate when we discussed it on Wednesday. He was talking about how we need to collect those taxes and how we're supposed to get rid of those businessmen who don't admit sales. And that's the problem we have with the proposal. He doesn't contribute to anything like that in the third and fourth waves. Because this is typically a transaction where two people argue that they work for each other, the other pays. Typically, I'm setting an example for a gardener, because I did that in college, and I spent the summer making extra money as a gardener, so I know the field. There's a transaction going on between the gardener and the buyer who might have a garden made by him. And it depends purely on the two of them -- and these are the only two people who have an overview of the transaction -- if they admit it in quotes, it'll be on the invoice or without the invoice. And the introduction of the EET does not change this situation in any way. In no way does law enforcement grow. Because whether he takes out an EET receipt, or whether he gets a proper receipt, or if he gets an invoice, it doesn't affect the law in any way. So the only thing it does is it complicates life for honest entrepreneurs who properly expose receipts. That you have a guy who's gonna make a garden here and now he's gonna go to that customer and he's gonna say, "You're gonna pay me $50,000 now, and instead of either showing him a cashier's receipt and getting $50,000 from him, or he's gonna make a deal with him that he's gonna pay online over the web, which he can do now fortunately without, so if he wants to get it in cash, then he needs an EET device. And that EET device he doesn't need for anything. He doesn't help him in any way in the business, so he has to get an EET device and if he's honest, he'd still admit the cash payment properly and put it in his books and pay taxes on it. And if he's dishonest, so even if he has an EET device, so they agree with the client, the customer gets a discount because without the paper, it goes tax-cheap, and it will be without the EET receipts. I have no idea what the mechanism is that is supposed to lead to an increase in the enforcement of law in this area. And that's the basic problem with the third and fourth wave that we have, that while honest businessmen are going to have to make their lives difficult because they have to get the extra cash payment device, they're going to pay for it flat-rate, they're going to write down their accounts, they're just going to have to have costs, but no added value. At least if the Treasury was working on a guy who would connect the whole system to EET, it would automatically fill him in with a tax return that would just add up the discounts and get it done, at least it would have done something. But nothing like that happens, it's just a bureaucratic duty that bothers those entrepreneurs. And the really honest ones will be affected, and the dishonest ones simply won't issue the EET receipt. There's only one witness to the customer who's making money on it. Then why on earth would he turn himself in? It doesn't make any sense for a man who earns that his craftsman, who delivers something to him, doesn't pay his taxes, doesn't give himself up, and I don't understand the idea of what's behind it. And for these reasons, we are just proposing that the law be rejected, for these reasons, it seems absurd to us. Because he bullies the honest and doesn't interfere with the dishonest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u11	Thank you. The Minister has signed up with priority rights, but Mr Bláha has also signed up with a point of fact. Will you let the secretary in front of you? Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u12	Thank you, Mr President, I will be brief. It's not like that, Mr. Ferjenčík. I don't want to delay this discussion, but I need to talk. It's just not like that. First of all, you set an example of someone who does garden service, if I understood. He doesn't have to have an EET at all today because he falls, these are the services and he falls into the so-called. Third wave. That's the first option. He doesn't want to finish me off, I think I'm talking now. Next thing. If he pays cash-free, $50,000 mostly, I don't know if you're having it, gardener, I haven't met it, but okay, it can be. So if you pay cash-free, you don't have to have an EET. If he pays with a card, he doesn't have to have an EET. If they're gonna put it in cash, they don't have to have an EET yet, but they already have an obligation today - and I'd ask for it if I paid someone $50,000 cash, at least because of the claim deadlines, so I'd say I want a receipt. And that businessman's duty is on demand today if he doesn't have to have an EET. And we're saying the obligation that he has - now I'm talking about a novel - which he already has on demand today, and I don't know if any of you are gonna give anyone $50,000 without a document, I'm not, for me there's a lot of money, so he's just gonna give that document. And we say, if there's no VAT, if there's a maximum of two employees, I assume that this gardener can be, then in that case he can choose. He's either gonna give the paperwork, or he's gonna have a record of his sales. So please, it's in the novel, I suggest you read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u13	I also thank you, and now, with Mr Bláha's point of fact, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to assure you all that the honest has not really affected us. It doesn't limit me, it doesn't disturb me, it helps me to keep some dishonest employees who always find each other, so they have to keep their record. Of course, some people are trying to bypass that, but they're getting a little worse. And the only thing that limits us is that we haven't covered the whole Czech Republic with a good signal and digitalization yet. That's where I'd like us to push to help. But other than that, the moment you really have a small bookkeeping, you just need one phone to do it. Same as the one you send your text messages to or read the news. And that's gonna help you get everything done. And as you've heard here, the easiest way it is, let's do it with the card or the command and everything will work out perfectly and no one has to use any EET. I think the worst bad luck about everything is that people who don't even see it talk about negatives, or people who want to go around the law in some way. So these are my findings. And I'm meeting the honest ones and the dishonest ones, and believe that even the dishonest ones today, if we allow them a little bit to be honest, they'd like to be honest. But that's for a longer debate, it's about more things, it's about the whole system that helps us to be dishonest even those who want to be honest. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u15	Thank you for your time, and I ask Mr Ferjenčík to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u16	Thank you for the floor. I will respond briefly to the Minister. The fact that it doesn't apply today is why we're against this law because we don't want it to apply even in the future, because we think it's completely absurd to impose this obligation on entrepreneurs. I'll do it again. Why does he want them to pay him $50,000 in cash? Because it is quite common in the Czech Republic, unfortunately, that someone is then reluctant to pay those services, they recreate claims and simply it is quite common in the Czech Republic that invoices often do not pay the whole. So that's why the craftsman after leaving that place wants to have money. Ask someone who did this kind of business. It will actually confirm to you that issuing an invoice and getting paid through a bank account is just a big risk, and also a risk to the customer to pay in advance, because unfortunately what happens is that sometimes the craftsmen don't deliver everything they had. So that's why they pay cash all the time. And why would anyone give it without a receipt? If it's 10,000 cheaper, he'll at least consider it. But that, of course, is the tax fraud that both people do, however, and that is what I stress, the introduction of EET does not solve it. He doesn't deal with it in any way. He has an obligation to issue a document today. A decent one issues a receipt, puts it in the books, a customer sometimes puts it in the costs when he can, sometimes he doesn't get it, because he can't, if it's just for the family garden, and everything's fine. And now you're introducing a bureaucratic duty to have to pick up some new types of I.R.S. documents that aren't of any use to him, and he's been exhibiting the documents properly all along, and it's not gonna happen in any way to the dishonest ones! [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u17	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Volný, Mr Feranec will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u18	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to see you through this to my colleague Ferjenčík. He said in his previous post that Mr. Volný said that it was necessary to dispose of - that he said, look in the screen record - dishonest entrepreneurs. [[Messenger. Ferjenčík resists.]] I didn't say that at all. And if he thinks that if the dishonest one becomes honest, that means he's gonna admit sales, and that's gonna get him wiped out, then I doubt how he's doing business. It means, it's not about destroying the dishonest, it's about comparing them to being honest like the others next to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u19	Now, with a point of fact, Mr Feranec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u20	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must give the truth to my colleague Ferjenčík. Indeed, EET will not solve the problem of business, where 50,000 gardeners are paid, growers. You're probably talking about illegal cannabis growing. So this isn't really going to solve EET. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u21	I ask you to address the other Members through me. I now ask Mr Bláh, Mr Bláha, to make a point of fact. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say, after all - through Mr President - the pirates were the ones who said: we have modern technology here. So if the gardener comes into the garden, he's gonna take the cell phone that presets the cash invoice associated with the EET, he's just gonna send it over the cell phone, so he can print it out on his cell phone, or he can print out the cash invoice that's in there, and it's done. It's done! You guys are still coming up with some new technology, but I haven't seen you want to apply one yet. Absolutely! You come with cash payments at a time when all businessmen go through phones. Absolutely! So I don't know what you're thinking here, but you better believe that one payment per week isn't gonna be done by the phone for 50,000 by the gardener himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u23	Thank you and now, with a factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík. Before I give him my word, we have a note again. We apologize to Minister Dan Tók from 9:30 to 13:30 for work reasons. I heard it was misread this morning. Please, Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u24	Thank you for the floor. We are promoting the introduction of new technologies, but on a voluntary basis. I do not understand why the state forces craftsmen who are often before retirement, often have no desire to change their system and are mainly honest, so why impose new bureaucratic duties on them that complicate their lives. And there are often few of these craftsmen nowadays, and we bully them completely senselessly here with measures that will do nothing but make business harder for some people and, above all, it doesn't bring a better tax return. This is the biggest mess ever!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u25	Thank you, and now Mr Munzar with a point of fact, Mr Kupka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond by your means to Mr Bláha. Here, indirectly, I have to stand up for the pirát and all the other parties, because you are also talking about eGovernment, about smart governance, etc., and all we have seen so far in your flagship is the use of electronic communication tools not for the benefit of people, but in their failure - to monitor them, because of their stalking, because of their permanent control, because of the state's distrust of citizens. And I'm sorry. We should use electronic instruments for the benefit of citizens and not against them. And so far it's happening against them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u27	I, too, thank you and now please Mr Kupka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u28	Thank you for the floor. I also allow myself to respond very briefly to Mr Bláha, because he said a moment ago that all entrepreneurs are on mobile phones, as they preset their invoice there. On the other hand, a long time ago, on the contrary, he mentioned that we had shortcomings in mobile signal coverage and that unfortunately there are many places where this is not possible. And it's not really possible. There are a number of places that are not yet covered, but there are also tradesmen doing business there, even in small refreshments on the mountains they have to deal with it and it means a real bureaucratic burden for them. Not to mention that, of course, there is a right to be in society, and there will always be a part of people who simply do not live up to modern technology and do not want to use it, and I think the state should not force them to do so. He should give them space to deal with their affairs with the state in a form other than purely digital. Yes, digital technology must serve, it must be ready for everyone, but on the other hand, the state must not dictate only one way in this regard and set for all others such complex bureaucratic conditions that it will really hang a trade on a nail underneath them. I would like to draw attention to this, and I would like to ask that, in future, all measures, including the necessary digitalisation, also allow people to go their own way if they do not want to use digital technology.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u29	Thank you. This has exhausted the factual points, and I am inviting Mr Krejza to the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first I dare to respond to my previous speakers. For example, I was interested in the following sentence: Read it carefully, so study it. Yes, that's what we'll expect from the tradesmen. So I guess that's not much help. First, they're going to have to study exactly what the law is about, then they're going to have to set up an appropriate technique that isn't completely cheap, and I really doubt whether the benefits of the third and fourth waves will be what we expect, and it will bring the effects. I had the opportunity to meet many entrepreneurs and, of course, opinions differed. The interesting thing is that the bigger the businessman, the more he defends the EET, the more he can use the EET. Yes, it's for the control of his employees, let's say it's for the settlement in his eyes of the business environment. We've heard it from Mr. Bláha here, how the competition is actually bad. [[12.50 hours]] Of course, the smaller the businessman or so far the restaurant or the innkeeper, as we call it, the enthusiasm of the EET falls there. Now we have to touch several hundred thousand small craftsmen, tradesmen, who are really few today, try to get a bricklayer to cover your bathroom, it's almost impossible, and we really can't help them with this. I would have gone back a little bit in time to the past, after all. I have an ad campaign here that ran around three, maybe two half years ago, and here I read: fair for everyone - virtually. I hear - 18 billion to health care. 18 billion was an assumption. Then it's like that or something. It was an excellent campaign, I think, because... or 140 kindergartens, or 280 km of highways, 900 sports fields, so in fact, all people felt that the introduction of the EET would benefit enormously. 18 billion assumptions have become 10 billion in the Prime Minister's statement. I have to return here again to the Supreme Audit Office's report, if I can find it here somewhere, it will fail, and which says: Budget in a nutshell - I don't remember the exact name - handles the Ministry of Finance, benefits of 4 billion. [[Searches in its bases]] Reasonable report on the law - 5 billion benefits. These are the contradictions of the Ministry of Finance itself, where we can't even figure out what the contribution was. It's a report from the Supreme Audit Office to the State Final Account, and the variance is from 3 to 5.5 billion. We have heard an exact quote from my colleague Kupka that it is not actually specified exactly how these numbers were reached. I know it's probably not quite easy, which I'm sure the Secretary will confirm that developing an algorithm on how to accurately estimate the impact of the introduction of the EET is not an easy thing to do. But you see the contradiction. 18 billion advertising campaigns, 10 billion Prime Minister's comments, 3 to 5 billion real impact. I think here it reflects that, virtually. here we see how these assumptions always exceed the reality on the revenue side, but on the expenditure side they are already different, because mostly the expected costs are increasing again. So if we look at some kind of public source that I don't want to name at this point, we can do a little bit of reading. How much will the taxpayers cost the EET, it is not easy to find out. In the explanatory memorandum to the EET of 2 June 2015, the Ministry of Finance estimates the purchase price at 370 million. CZK and operating costs for 170 million. crowns a year. The Treasury, the Shared Services Centre and the General Financial Directorate competed to create the entire EET, including the connection to ADIS, this is the Financial Administration Information System, for 39.9 million. Crowns. Estimated annual operating costs 15 million. CZK and investment in hardware 10 to 15 miles. Crowns. This was therefore not part of this tender report. This tender was cancelled on direct instructions from the Director of the General Financial Directorate, Mr Janeček, without giving any reason. At the beginning of 2016, IBM, the largest supplier of IT services for the General Financial Directorate, offered a copy of the EET for 50 million, so a small increase. They say it's more convenient. All right. So let's see how this went on and what was actually behind the costs of EET in 2016. EET creativity, tender procedure, contract is not mentioned because the tender procedure took place before the validity of the law, prices without VAT 2,9 million. Crowns. I don't really know what it is, but it's listed here, so maybe it's my imperfection. Media space, tender, 23.5 miles. CZK, the contract is not published for the same reasons. Certification authority 13.1 miles. CZK, hardware for EET application interface, winner is O2 IT with a price of 153 million. Crowns. The delivery includes a solution from IBM in the amount of 152 mil. Crowns. It's kind of a subvan with a million-dollar margin. That's what I'm reading here. Integration of EET into ADIS from IBM, entered in the form of a negotiated procedure without publication, because simply the ADIS is fully directed by IBM, a price of 50 million. Crowns. So it's a total of 244 miles. Crowns. One-off costs. There was, of course, I think, the cost and the advertising campaign that I quoted here, when we were convinced of the contribution to the state budget at the enormous amount that is far from being implemented, even though the economy has increased incredibly over the three years and has risen thanks to the global boom. Let's look at the costs by 2021. It is also interesting here, because the costs by 2021 are also linked to the maintenance of ADIS software and on one hand, let's say directly from EET they are 95 miles. koruna, and I'm sure, or I'm not sure, but very probably there aren't included salaries per employee, for those 400 officials. If that's not the case, I'd be happy to learn. 400 officials, approximately 150 miles. CZK wage costs per year, in four years we're at some 600 plus 95. 95 then seems like a very small item, but it will stand here another 895 miles. CZK for maintenance of ADIS software. Maybe that's what you have to do without an EET. So now my colleagues may not like me, my colleagues from ODS, but I even think that the first and second waves of EET are solved today. The software works, I have to pay my respects here, I didn't believe it would work. It works, 17 milliseconds, yes, a very short time, it just works. Fine. I think even the innkeepers, the restaurants, got used to it today, there was a benefit, so be it. I don't think it's that much benefit to our budget, but I take it that's a fact. However, we want to touch on the next several hundred thousand tradesmen, and there I already see the debatability that the contribution will be - I don't even know how it is estimated, I will confess, but I am guessing it and I agree with my colleague Ferjenčík that it will be absolutely minimal. I'm even convinced we can't even number it. It doesn't even add up. I would like the Minister, who is smiling, to convince me that he already has the methodology, its ministry and its officials, and that the Ministry of Finance will provide us with this direct contribution. I am really convinced that tax evasions that are certainly taking place, because each of us or none of us is an angel, we are not perfect, neither is the businessman perfect, nor is he the recipient of the service, and it does not have to be a gardener and it certainly is not some weird substance exchange for 50 thousand. Kroner, I would ask Mr Feranc through the President not to say this here, I do not like it, thank you. So they're masonry craftsmen, which is probably where we all have the most experience. We don't have enough. Most of them are older people, minimal contributions to the state budget. [[13.00 hours]] The cost of introduction is different, but mobile phone, connection, yes, maybe yes. Perhaps there might not even be a load in this spirit. However, when you look at some statistics, it is said that such operation in the EET system can cost 5 to 15,000 crowns for small entrepreneurs, for larger or medium-sized establishments 25 to 60,000 crowns and for the yield of, say, 4 billion, while it was affected by 200,000 traders by the first and second wave, we have a yield somewhere around 20 thousand extra per year for that one place, and I note that this is in a situation where I think that the yield could actually have been greater than that of the next, third and fourth wave. So we have the cost of the first year equal to the yield for the state budget. Well, I don't know if that's really the right way. I don't think so. I will vote against, and please consider that mere vanity at this point can't lead us to harass hundreds of thousands of people who really don't deserve it, and we should help them rather than torment them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u31	Thank you, too. A note has arrived. President Bartošek apologizes to us today from 12.45 until the end of the day of the hearing. And next up, Mr Jurečka is enrolled in the debate. And he may not be present, so we will move forward and please Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u32	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. I'll follow up on what I said on Wednesday. I consider the biggest offense in the introduction of electronic sales records to be the reason for the division of the company. In order to implement and obtain support for it in public, the dog's head was first put on businessmen and small businessmen. We all know the statements that were made in the media. I don't know if the Prime Minister, all the burglars said it, or if it was just attributed to him, but it's a sign that the first time a dog's head was put on business, which, of course, led to the most unfortunate thing in our state - an artificial division of society, which reminded me of the class struggle we used to have here. Those entrepreneurs were labeled cheaters all the time, so they have to control themselves, and they're gonna pay for the check. This division of society is a scar on the face of society for me, because society, as we see, can easily divide, but it is difficult to connect. Now, let me start with what I didn't say here on Wednesday, he's been saying it a little bit for Mr. Krejza here, juggling numbers that are very inaccurate. According to the Prime Minister, who once defended the introduction of the EET, according to his first statements, the contribution of all phases of the EET should have been 8 billion. for the state budget annually. 18 billion, sorry, I must have misjudged. 18 billion. per year. Please, I'm just gonna finish this, all those numbers. According to RIA, an assessment of the impact on the law, the Ministry wrote us an estimate of 12.7 billion. crowns a year. Yesterday, we heard from the Prime Minister in the media that it was 10 billion. Crowns. The proposal before us, in its explanatory part, states that in 2017 the existing EET brought not 10 but 4.7 billion. CZK, half as much as the Prime Minister said in the media. However, there is not so much in the draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2017, nor is there the 4.7 billion. There is only 4.1 billion. Crowns. So 18 was 12, then 10, then 4.7, then 4.1 - 4.1 billion, which is about 0.3 percent of the revenue of the state budget. The Supreme Audit Office also draws attention to this juggling with numbers in its opinion on the State Final Account for 2017. I quote this once again, directly: "The estimated effects of the measures introduced differed significantly in the various documents of the Ministry of Finance. The credibility of these data is questionable because different values are published in the materials for which the method of calculation is not explained and are not supported by an analysis of specific data." So many SAOs. Faithfulness and the word debatable. The debatable is really very mild and very helpful to what we have in the materials from the Ministry of Finance and what the Prime Minister says in the media. I would use different words, I can think of maybe a deliberate exaggeration of the EET's financial contribution. So we're getting questionable numbers into the evidence we're supposed to be deciding on. Their calculation is not clearly documented, the figures from government officials and various materials of the Ministry of Finance differ very significantly. And that's what the SAO pointed out. So the current wave brought those incredible, brilliant, amazing 0.3 percent of the revenue from the state budget. And we can successfully speculate how much EET is involved in this increased selection and how much economic growth itself. The question is, therefore, whether the fact that people made more money last year, spent more money, went to shops, went to restaurants more, and this increased consumption caused higher tax collection. I am convinced that this is the case and the impact of electronic sales records on tax collection is rather minimal to marginal. But, okay, let's stay with the great, amazing 0.3 percent of the state budget. According to the Ministry of Finance, the current wave of electronic sales records concerned 170,000 traders and restaurants. The new hairdressers, painters, painters, carpenters, locksmiths, repairers, gardeners, other craftsmen, as well as office activities that accept cash payments are to be another hundreds of thousands, according to the materials 300 thousand. The cost of acquisition, installation and maintenance costs up to tens of thousands of crowns for the entrepreneur. But even if I were to hold to some average price, let's say CZK 20,000 for one device, for its installation, for its implementation, that means it's some for the 170,000 traders 3.4 billion. That's how much it cost to install an EET. Internet connection 500 kroner a month, which is 6,000 kroner a year, that's another billion at 170 thousand. So, in total, the cost of those entrepreneurs to state control, the introduction of state on-line control, which they will pay themselves under the code name EET, was about 4.5 billion. CZK by gross estimate, please, it is really such a calculation, only provided that I count only one device per taxpayer. In fact, a lot of taxpayers have a lot more of these devices, so the costs are higher. So state to choose 4.1 billion. CZK, forced the entrepreneur's costs even higher. My conservative estimate is 4.5 billion. Not to mention that maintenance and connection costs must be paid and must be made every year. Well, that's the kind of government as a company - someone else will pay the cost of my return. I'll stay at the expense. You know the various discount marketing events that always lure us - we have some amazing goods from 3,000, we buy television from 5,000 crowns. You go to a store like this, and you find that what you need and the equipment that can do what you need cost double, and that price, the one from 3,000, is some piece of junk you'll never buy. But it's also written by the RIA on this law. The basis by which we are to decide. I quote: "For technically less skilled users there are solutions that are similar to calculators in prices from about CZK 5,000." [[13.10 hours]] There's more formulas like that. As with discount events, we are given the basis for decision making. We all know it's a lot more than that, just on paper, artificially, paper-based cost cuts, just like revenue increases artificially. Not to mention the cost of the state. Not the ones we have in our backgrounds, the hundreds of millions for the whole system and its maintenance, but how much do all those officials hired to control the EET, how much they cost us their salaries, the equipment of the offices. It doesn't say how much it's going to cost us, the introduction of a third and fourth wave. I'll read it to you: State-side costs. As part of the final report, the evaluation of the impact of regulation on the bill on the record of sales was expected to cost the construction of the system and the costs associated with its seamless startup - hardware, software, infrastructure, module for the receipt lottery and so on - at the amount of CZK 370 million. Operating costs after the start-up of the IT system, system maintenance, certification authority costs, service operation, security and other standard operating technical costs were estimated at 170 million per year. [[unintelligible]] Other costs associated with the operation of the sales log system, optional higher system security for users, etc. were to be around 70 million a year. In connection with the introduction of the sales registration system for the first two years, the costs of services for the public, especially for PR and call centre were also expected around CZK 60 million per year. In addition, it was estimated that administrative costs would be incurred, the costs of providing additional personnel resources participating in the handling of the agenda, based on the Sales Recording Act, which would not be carried out through automatic systems. According to estimates, it should have been about 400 employees of the Financial and Customs Administration for field control activity, which is a key element for the efficiency of sales records. So we get in the background what was the first year's selection, but we don't get in the backgrounds how much cargo was. We only get information on how much cargo was previously estimated, not what the actual cargo was for 2017. The very formulation of the type - were estimated, should have done, were expected. However, what are the actual costs that were in 2017 and the actual costs of implementing the EET system, we will not see in the background. So I would like to ask the Minister to answer these questions: how many were the real, not the estimated costs of implementing the EET. How much was the current cost of its operation. How many civil servants not only had to be recruited because of the EET, but how many total civil servants deal with the issue of EET at all. What are their wage costs? And what are the cost of their equipment, the cost of their offices and so on. And I was only talking about the first and second waves. Now to the 300,000 new taxpayers. We all meet them because we all need their services, all those hairdressers, repairmen, craftsmen, gardeners and office professions. And now we're going to burden them with a check that we're going to pay with a reason that the state doesn't trust them, and if they're decent, they can't care that they're being watched online. We can all be monitored by eavesdropping or watching from morning to night, because we are all decent, so we will not mind any online. The rude ones, as my colleague Ferjenčík said here, will not touch it. If a melouch repairman comes to you and today he's done some work for you, some repair, and you're going to deal with him without an invoice, or he's going to offer it to you, this isn't really going to change after the introduction of the EET. He won't miraculously start giving a receipt from electronic sales records. So only the honest taxpayer, the craftsman who's putting out the receipts today, will pay for it again. The gray economy will not be significantly affected. I'll only read you one number. The system is focused only on a really small part of tax evasion. According to the report of the Supreme Audit Office, only 7 percent of the VAT loss is due to those small entrepreneurs and businessmen. Instead of trying to control the active layer of the middle class that is the salt of our economy online, the state should focus more on the big ones, where these leaks occur to a much greater extent. However, it's complicated, it's problematic, because the big companies don't do themselves, they have teams of lawyers, teams of accountants behind them, so they find their way. That is why it is easier for the state to focus unfortunately on the smallest ones. And it's a mistake. It is a mistake, because a really small businessman, an active person is one of the most important elements for our economy. Because when the economic recession comes, and the economic growth really doesn't last forever, we'll be happy to make money on our own for every person who makes money, to pay our taxes, and to contribute to the social system. But against them, such people fight similar measures. Now, on to the specific proposal, the ease for the little ones. I really think that the possibility of two hundred thousand, first of all, the border is very low, and the possibility of going to the tax office to pick up uniform forms, receipt forms, and then carrying boxes to the tax office - what are you expecting returns from such an activity? Wouldn't it be better for the little ones to really cancel? What will be the yield of this measure? How many billions will that be? And how much will the cargo cost? Because someone at the financial office, those boxes with the receipts, they're gonna accept, they're gonna check, they're gonna archive, and they're gonna deal with it. So what's the cost of this measure for the little ones? Because it's not about reducing bureaucracy. That's replacing the electronic system with paper bureaucracy. The numbers I've asked the Minister to do here don't contain our documents for our decision-making. The contribution is really debatable. But in order not to do so, with the same law, VAT is reduced for some services. I'm a supporter of low taxes, and I'm glad if we can talk about low taxes. But when I look at what kind of VAT goes down, what kind of activities, they are directly affected by the expansion of the EET. And I see it as a marketing move invented somewhere in some PR headquarters rather than a real system approach to tax issues. However, as far as tax reductions are concerned, I am clearly in favour of them. So when I sum it up in some way slowly, the system is useless from my point of view, because it targets just a small part of tax evasion, because the small entrepreneurs and businessmen, the dishonest ones, will cause only 7 percent of the VAT blackout according to the Supreme Audit Office report. Before the introduction of the electronic sales log, the financial administration had, and with the third and fourth waves, it still has all the information it needs to identify who might not pay the taxes, who cut the VAT, who behaves unstandardly. Only that approach would be more difficult than pressing the button for the taxpayer's cargo. The system transfers the state's obligations to entrepreneurs and forces them to control themselves for their own money. The system is clearly restrictive. Through the EET, the state obtains very valuable information that can be very easily misused. Information about customer relationships. We can see if there is any change in product structure in some supermarkets after the introduction of the EET. The introduction of the system has increased the prices of some traders. That's clearly a fact. The system increases the costs I have listed here, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. EET clearly complicates the life of entrepreneurs in problems with data connection, for example, he told colleague Bláha here, but instead we make it difficult for them to go to the office regularly to hand over boxes with receipts. [[13.20 hours]] The system is a question of whether it is really effective if it brings additional costs on the part of entrepreneurs from roughly revenues to the state budget. The system clearly ended business for some businessmen, the first and second wave. And I'm worried about the craftsmen, the fachmans that we're so hard to find somewhere in the labour market today, who have experience, so they don't just blow it off with the state bothering them too much. In the future, we will need a strong middle class, which is largely composed of businessmen. A strong middle class, which will be composed of active people who can provide us with their services, pay taxes, contribute to the social system, but who will also be independent. This proposal fights against such people. The share of SMEs in the total number of active business entities - based on the 2016 SME report - was 99,8 %. The share of added value of SMEs in 2016 was 56,2 % and the share of employees of SMEs in the total number of employees of the business sector in the Czech Republic in 2016 was 59.1 percent. These numbers show how important the business public is to us. I know the third fourth wave doesn't concern all the people I just read here. It's about 300,000 people. But it is enough for us to value them, not to complicate their lives, not to put their dog heads on them, and to let them know that our country, our republic, our society, represents. And this proposal certainly does not contribute to that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u33	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. And now the next in line is Mr Marian Jurečka, but before that we have the factual comment of Mr Jiří Bláha. So, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, we've heard some great style exercises here. I kept looking into how my colleagues were such good speakers. And I figured it out. It's thanks to these essay exercises, I'm going to have to do better, I'm going to have to prepare them next time. But that's not what I wanted to tell you. I just want to say, there's been a lot of facts here, and one of them is that we don't have to worry about those small and medium-sized ones who don't really have that kind of impact on our economy. So I'd just like to say that in our republic of about one million 200 companies there are 900 thousand small and medium-sized, and those 900 thousand small and medium-sized ones are 65 percent of our economy. So it's not what the co-worker's been sending us. And really, most of those entrepreneurs who are honest, so they just want EET to be badly required to be introduced into all phases. What bothers them is that they haven't all the phases, and they want us to introduce them as quickly as possible. You'll see that success comes. It takes time, it takes patience and learning to control everything, everything will run to a successful end. And one last time. Me as an entrepreneur - and I am small, I take care of IT within my company myself or with my son. We have 12 establishments, we employ 200 people, and it doesn't take me more than two hours a month, and that's because the Internet is about to go out somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u35	Thank you. Now I'd like to read two apologies. Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologizes from 13:30 to the end of the meeting, and Mr Lukáš Tůma apologises between 13:00 and 14:00 for family reasons. And now we have three requests for factual comments. This means that the first is Mr Kalousek, the second Mr Munzar and the third Mr Bartoš. So, Mr Kalousek. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u36	I agree with Mr Bláha that a number of facts have actually been raised. I was particularly interested in the facts which quite rightly called into question the quantification of the impact of electronic sales records, when the Ministry of Finance lists different figures in its various materials. The Supreme Audit Office also pointed out that. The 10 billion contributions made yesterday by Prime Minister Babiš are about as credible as his statement that church restitutions are overpriced by 54 billion. I merely recall that the total amount of financial compensation is 59 billion. So when the Prime Minister says 54 billion, he's just babbling. He's babbling the same way with the 10 billion contributions from the EET. For this reason, because there are many of us who have doubts about this, I would like to put forward a procedural proposal to suspend this point until the Ministry of Finance submits a credible methodology on the calculation of the impact of electronic records of sales in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u37	Thank you. Otherwise, I have now read the apology, and I find it strange that I do not know any Mr Lukáš Tůma from STAN, so I checked. And in that apology, Mr. Lukáš Tůma apparently forgot to write an MP from STAN... Petr Pávek... So I'll read it, if that's the case. So Mr. Petr Pávek apologizes between 13 and 14 o'clock. So it's for the record. I am now going to ask Mr Vojtěch Munzar's speech on a factual basis. [[Mr Kalousek argues that he has made a procedural motion to suspend this point.]] I'm sorry, we were here to investigate the apology. Can you repeat that one more time? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u38	I apologise, Mr President, for not highlighting this. I have put forward a procedural proposal to suspend this item until the Ministry of Finance has submitted a credible analysis of the impact of the introduction of EETs in public budgets. I therefore ask that this procedural proposal be voted without debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u39	Yes. So we have a procedural proposal here to interrupt the debate until the Ministry of Finance presents an impact analysis. So I will call the Members so that we can vote. There's an application for a check-out. I'll have you all checked out. Log in again with your voting cards... I think the kvorum plus minus has stabilized. So I'm going to repeat once again what we're going to vote on. We have here the procedural proposal by Mr Kalousek to interrupt the discussion of this point until the Ministry of Finance has presented an impact analysis. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of interrupting, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It's vote number 97. Registered 140 Members, for 60, against 73. The motion was denied. We will therefore continue the debate. Next, Mr Munzar is registered with a factual remark. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I would have responded to your mediation with my colleague Bláha. I wasn't talking about having a low share in the economy, I was talking about the 7 percent being a share in the gray economy. And that's a significant difference. On the contrary, I have read here the data from the report on small and medium-sized enterprises, which clearly shows that small and medium-sized enterprises are the core engine of our economy, and we should therefore appreciate it. The gray economy and the economy are different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u41	Thank you. And now I have the right apology here in writing. So Mr. Petr Pávek apologizes between 13:00 and 14:00. I have another factual point here. This is Mr Jan Volný. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u42	Colleagues, I didn't want to delay and reconstruct, but I observe that it's still sharpening and delaying, so I, in response to Mr. Munzar. Once again, he proved his dogmatism here during his last entry, but he convicted himself, and I think the Members will take their picture. On the one hand, when he recapitulated the numbers, he first said 8 billion, then corrected to 18 billion, so he correctly said that it was an estimate of all four waves, but then very skillfully and without any scruples he began to compare with 10 billion and with 4 billion, although he knows very well that we are only at the second wave and that the other numbers relate only to the two waves, i.e. Once again, he's making us a little bit of a box. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u43	Thank you. The next one is signed in with the de facto remark of the Member, President of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš, and then Mr Bláha is signed in. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond through the President to Mr Bláha. From what he always tells here, I'm in a bit of a storm. We were here yesterday, you weren't around much, they were talking about digitization with the Prime Minister, and I'm glad he's here, and he was here yesterday showing his notebook. He was talking about being an active retiree, like he's gonna sign this place, and he wants it all on paper, and we're hearing here that it's perfectly normal, that even over 50 years of age, craftsmen or gardeners have a phone somewhere that's got invoices on it. It's not real at all. My active parents simply have a button phone, and if they provide some craftsmanship, they are definitely not able to deal with it and are not able to go anywhere. And we're talking about the yield in the next wave, and the market is so small in the area of small crafts, and the yield isn't going to increase, it's nonsense to target the total amount that's going to cost 18 billion. But I would really like to respond to the fact that active people over 50 years of age don't have a mobile phone with apps, so the fact that bakeries can bill electronically is definitely not something we should measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u45	Thank you and now another, with the factual remark of Mr Jiří Bláha, and then I have one more application for the factual application, and this is Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u46	Dear colleagues, I wanted to respond only to other contributions, but now I have to respond. 57 is 57, so maybe I'm an exception, but believe me, I'm not an exception. At the age of 57, I have a row and a row and tens and hundreds and thousands and far older entrepreneurs who control technology far better than I do, but I didn't want to talk about it. Don't underestimate us, we're far ahead of you all the time. Especially in those experiences. I only wanted to respond to the numbers. I don't care about 10, 20, 5 billion as an entrepreneur. At this point, I'm interested in bringing in a third and fourth wave as quickly as possible, to bring in those companies that don't have to do it today, because they don't have to admit to the manufacturer who makes and sells it to themselves today. There's a lot of us like that. I volunteered to show that there was a way, and to show that it wouldn't burden me. I wouldn't have to be in this. And believe me, I'm meeting the very entrepreneurs who say, the more of us we are, the more we show that we don't mind. Just one more time in a nutshell. It doesn't bother honest entrepreneurs, it doesn't burden them, and they're ready to talk about it, and they're gonna love it when the third and fourth waves take place as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u47	Thank you. Another comment by Mr Vojtěch Munzar and will be prepared for Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to respond to Mr. Volný. Yes, I actually misjudged, and I corrected immediately. Instead of 18 billion I said 8, but the difference in media, which you said, 18 billion, and what we have written in the background, 12.7 billion, is quite a big difference. Well, I don't know who's faking who with the numbers. And so does the Treasury Department's numbers. It's up to the Supreme Audit Office and not me, so please at least compare the numbers next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u49	Thank you. The last de facto at the moment, Mr Kalousek, President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u50	Thank you for the floor. Mr Volný said that perhaps the opponents are obstructing this proposal. I don't think there's a way. I didn't do much, but what I heard, so I heard a very serious discussion and material contributions. If I were to take Mr Free's words seriously, I would say that whoever is most obstructive here is Mr Bláha of the ANO movement. But that's Mr. Volný's dictionary, I don't think so. I think Mr. Bláha is making a contribution in kind. Yes, he's 57 and he controls digital technology, I'm 58, so perhaps I also control them, perhaps not as well as Mr Bláha. But we can't force every businessman in the '60s just because we figured he had to use the technology because he had no other way. Imagine, Mr Blá, through Mr President, that your party boss would make a living as a businessman. He's known to only send text messages, so you'd just cancel his business. And in this unfair way, we can't treat tens, hundreds, maybe thousands of people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u51	Thank you. I have two facts - Mr Václav Klaus and then Mr Jiří Bláha. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u52	So, as a speaker, I have promoted that I am already opening for the honourable Member. The debate has shifted a little bit, a piece of technical work, a piece of work on the kind of retired people who can control a cell phone and who they can't. I'd like to get back to the idea. The state wants to collect taxes, of course, it's a coat of arms, and for some reason, it's mainly picking up small businessmen, which it gives some electronic collars, in quotes, to terrorize them, and to work out the taxes on them. But there are many other activities where you can save money from the state. For example, with a sick person, anyone can get an electronic collar to keep it from being wasted, students can be checked to see if they're learning or sitting in a pub. So these possibilities where the state can terrorize people to protect the erare are an incredible amount. Maybe there'll be a fifth wave, a sixth wave, a ninth. But what I don't understand is why you've just been sitting on businessmen and working out of these, and from other groups of the population, I don't want to get off in a different spirit than the rest of them. I don't know what bothers you as much as it does you personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u53	Thank you. The last moment, Mr. Jiří Bláha, is on the verdict.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u54	I wouldn't be able to perform that often today, but seeing the crowds and the long news, I was wondering, we're not gonna make it anyway, so we need to react a little bit to the stimuli that's coming out here. And the really thing is, if I'm a gardener, believe me, I just need one document sometime a month. In that moment, when I expose him, he doesn't do anything to get me to register him, the one I.D. for a month, because that's the way it is. Looks to me like we're leaving real life. And I always, when I meet you all, I actually find out that we're exactly the same, that we think the same thing, that we want the same things, but when we meet here, one suddenly speaks Spanish, the other Russian, the third French, the fourth bad Czech, which is me. So I would suggest before we always meet here, let's talk backstage, tell each other how we want to do it, and I believe you have the same thoughts as I do. You don't want us to grow a gray economy here. And there's no way it's 7 percent you're talking about. In restaurants and dining rooms, no one is officially employed, and that's just it, and you all know it, and you all go there and your friends tell you. It's the same thing in construction companies, and we can go after the different industries like this. If you go get a haircut. And these people are doing it for a reason, and we should prevent those reasons and set them up to be equal and not have to do it because it's bothering them. And I'm here to set it up so they don't have to cheat to name it, not hide and solve it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u55	Thank you, and I've got some factual comments coming back, so I'll briefly recapitulate. I have three applications. Mr Kalousek will be prepared, then Mr Ferjenčík will speak and then Mr Krejza will speak. So, Mr Kalousek, chairman of the MP's club. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By your means, I would like to address Mr Bláha. I really don't know how many gardeners you know, but from what you just said, I suspect that only Mr. Jan zahradník. [[Fun.]] I dare say that I know a lot of gardeners, and none of them are lucky enough to catch a contract like that, that would really be enough to get one document for a month, with a flat-rate payment or so. These are mostly very small works that make him exhibit the receipt very often. And to burden him with the senseless obligation of the EET, it is the bureaucratic and economic cost that is completely useless, because simply when he is dishonest and offers someone that he will set up the two beds without paper, and the customer will do it, so no EET will stop it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u57	Thank you and I will now ask for Mr Ferjenčík's speech, Mr Krejza will prepare himself and I have here again an application from Mr Bláha. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u58	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask Mr Bláha to stop pervading this press by giving examples that are completely absurd, and to disprove them, because I really cannot imagine a gardener who only needs a month's proof when the carpet lawn takes two days to lay down, or it is quite typical that gardeners cut as many as 14 days a garden for 15 people, and that is what they normally do for a living. So I'd like to see the people who need one I.D. It's just such nonsense that we need to draw attention to him. Unfortunately, it's interfering with the debate. The Prime Minister is complaining that we are building, but unfortunately we must constantly explain the nonsense that his Members say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u59	Thank you and I will now ask Mr Krejza to speak, Mr Bláha will be prepared and then Mr Zahradník will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to point out that we still have Mrs Zahradníková in our ranks, not just the Zahradník. [[Fun.]] And in response to Mr Bláha through Mr President. Let us do this so that those people - craftsmen, tradesmen - pay taxes with joy, and we can do this in one way or another, that they will be very low and very simple. There's no need for anything else in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u61	Thank you. Mr Bláha will now appear, Mr Zahradník and Mr Jurečka will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u62	And that's exactly what I'm here for, so it's easy to make it all go faster, easier. But for that, I need all of you, I need you to get acquainted with it, I need you to talk to me about it, and believe me, then we're gonna say, yes, you want to be a girl, so you pay 30 grand a month here and we don't care more. So that's how easy we can do it. Come, I'll explain, and if you support me, it'll be here in a minute. And the gardener. You're right, the gardener does, like, more activities. But do you know what it's like to be able to use your time? That means I'll give the invoice to the Bláh who ordered it or to someone else once a month. Once a month, I'm gonna get him for all the work I've arranged with him, because most of them do regular mowings in the same gardens, so once a month, they're gonna expose the 13 people he works with, the one document. So it's simple. Let's save our jobs and that's how it works. We're not gonna charge every day that he just laid ten bricks when a brick builder's going to build a house! No, he doesn't issue an invoice or document until it's built. So will the gardener when it's mowed down. Maybe in six months, too, 'cause it's good enough for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u63	Thank you. I will now ask for Mr Zahradník's speech and Mr Jurečka and Mr Kalousek will prepare themselves. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Of course, I watch it carefully. The profession that describes the same word as my name, of course, makes the activities different. If my colleague Bláha thinks that the gardener is just mowing grass as a profession, please tell him nicely, Mr Vice-President, that he's wrong. He plants flowers, grows them, makes different combinations, then sells them, and you want to burden him so that every such sale has to be documented by your crazy EET. So that's the thing I'd like to say no to here. In order not to be completely easy, perhaps in České Budějovice there is such a large gardener who grows these flowers, imports them, sells them, and the company is called Ferjenčík. [[Laughing]] [[Thunderbolt laughter.]] So that it's not completely... But I'd still like to say something about it. I know - I knew, I can't use the present time, but the last - one very nice company in České Budějovice, which sold maps, souvenirs, various brochures, guides, and because it had a number of different items that it had to show, and they were very different types, it was very difficult to register. And unfortunately, this company was destroyed by your EET. The man had to quit, he had to shut it down, and your EET was destroyed. This is a specific case of the company that your EET destroyed. I also know the innkeeper who had to close his pub because your EET destroyed him. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u65	I have two more factual points to make. So Mr Josef Hájek and then Mr Jiří Bláha will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u66	Mr President, I did not want to perform, but now that I see that we have an end in 13 minutes, I will also allow myself a few speeches. I'm also over 50, I also have a smart phone, I even taught my wife how to work with it, so you can really learn almost everyone with it. [[Fun in the hall.]] What I'm saying is, we've been dealing with EET here in the last parliamentary term. We've moved on to another level, of course, thank you for that, because I've been here for hours, tens of hours, hearing thirsty customers die of thirst in those pubs, because by the time they write the EET receipt, the foam will fall, there won't be be beer etc. It works at the pub today. I didn't go to one pub for a year, because I had this discussion with the lady, and then eventually -- I come tonight, she smiles at me and gives me a receipt, which is, of course, positive, and there's no problem with that. I also have a colleague who's a mechanic, and he says, "You, I'm 50 years old, and I have to start saving up for my retirement. [[Nesroz.]] We've all got papers saying we're gonna get six thousand pensions, so I'm gonna start doing business honestly to earn my pension. There was no word about it here, but really, businessmen are big categories, which really, if he retires and doesn't pay his dues, and she didn't pay them partly because they didn't have what, when they did a lot of work black, they're going to be able to actually pay their wages or pay their taxes today, and then they're going to be calculated their pension and then they're going to be happy at the end. So this is also one topic that we could discuss. Otherwise, everyone has a nice weekend after that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u67	Thank you. Now Mr Jiří Bláha, Mr Kalousek, will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, let me explain to you one last time how this works in the private sector. [[Laughter from the right.]] I don't want to lecture you. I just want to introduce you to the reality that it really is. Today, 99 percent of the craftsmen and the small ones really have their permanent clients. They don't accept any new ones anymore because they don't have ten hands to make it. Therefore, if the craftsman still goes to the same, he already has the same rules with them. That means at the end of the month, or halfway through, or once a week, he's gonna count the work he's done for them, and he's gonna bill them. And believe it or not, most of the people he manages get to have just a few numbers. Of course, those who have employees have more, but there's something else. We're talking about the change we're after, and they have the same clientele over and over again, so maybe four bills a month, that's all they need. If it's ten, he'll set it up at home, he'll go out at the customer's house, and it's done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u69	Thank you. Now with the de facto Minister Alena Schillerová. Mr. Ondřej Benešík will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be really brief. To juggle numbers - it's incorrect. You take numbers from RIA, you take numbers from actual income, planned income. So I'll refer you to exactly: you can find the costs including personnel transparently on the web erzby.cz. Contract with the winner of the competition for the purchase of media space also publicly: e-zakazky.cz. As for the exact numbers, that means the ones we assumed, and the ones we've been able to calculate on a cash basis today, I'm sending that we're actually only two waves, I just sent two minutes ago to the CTK in a clear table. It'll be on all my social networks, including the Ministry of Finance's website. Look at this. Those are the numbers that are from the Treasury and which we stand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u71	Thank you. I will now ask for Mr Benešík's speech. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u72	Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be taught a lesson. I'm from the village, I know a lot of craftsmen, but the debate here feels like you're lucky I'm passing by. I'll just explain it to you. [[Glee in the hall.]] I didn't notice anyone getting a roof every month from a carpenter or a bricklayer building houses over and over again for the same clients. I think it might work for some. But it doesn't work like that for a big part, and with this system, we're going to disgust and burden these people. Maybe we'll also cause a lot of craftsmen to be left behind in a state where there's no artisans and a lot of them, for example, before they retire, and we'll have even less of them. And they're gonna blow it off because we're gonna disgust and complicate their craft business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u73	Thank you. I will now ask Mr. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal to speak. I still have Mr. Marian Jurečka registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u74	He told your colleague Benešík here most of the time before me. However, the idea that locksmiths, plumbers, bricklayers, electricians and others have a regular monthly clientele, which they run out of regularly, seems somewhat absurd to me. And these are the ones I realized we were supposed to aim at with this wave. And here's the problem that we're mentioning that nothing about this selection is going to change. It's just a relationship between two people. And the fact that there's an EET obligation doesn't change either the choice or whether it's paper-free or paper-free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u75	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Jurečka downloads? [[Yes.]] He's downloading the facts. However, this brings us to the general debate, and here you are first. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u76	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear colleagues, my colleagues, Prime Minister, the Government, Madam Secretary, allow you to also hear my speech. First of all, I have a few of these little things to say. I am glad that Mr Bláha did not use the analogy for his example instead of the gardener for example the operator of a fecal car. Then we would certainly learn a lot of small knowledge here in the debate from the activities of such a businessman, certainly it would be very nutritious. When there was an example that the girl was going to take away 30 grand from the state. Kroner, that would have to be a girl who had a contract with Mr. President of France Holland, who had 10 grand. EUR per month, but for the contributions of 30 thousand. It doesn't work for me a month. However, seriously and seriously now to discuss the point that we have here. I'd go back four and a half years, with permission, almost five years. When the three-wheelers of ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL were formed after the election, we said that we wanted to have a state here that would be able to effectively collect taxes, eliminate the grey economy, but also in the text of the coalition contract it says that we want to support small businesses and businessmen. I would like to quote the part of the coalition agreement that was at the time talking about EET: We will propose legislative measures leading to the maximum digitization of tax administration. We will specifically propose legislative and technical measures aimed at effective control of reported sales from retail sales of goods and services. These measures will include for selected entities an obligation to issue a document with a unique number and a receipt lottery. All measures will be based on the principle - and now listen - that the cost of their implementation will be borne by the State through tax deductions and not by the business sector. The reduction in the reduced VAT rate will be linked to this measure. I want to illustrate that at the beginning there was some signed agreement that clearly said: we realize that there will be costs, but the state will be able to fully compensate entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Consequently, the system could not be properly set up from the point of view of the portfolio of individual activities, the trades to which this EET is aiming. Some might say I'm playing a goal in my own gate right now. I was a coalition partner at the time, I was in government, and I raised my hand to the EET at the time. But I was repeatedly assured at the time at the Government and at the Coalition Council, subsequently in the Chamber of Deputies by the people in charge of the ANO movement, that, in a situation of time distress and the effectiveness of the law as of 1 January, let us support the government in the second reading of the Chamber of Deputies, we will fine-tune these matters, which concern the technical setting of the EET and the impact on each sector. At that time, I still believed that if anyone said anything, the word said and the handshake paid. Then, at second reading, we tried to set up the EET with the amendments of our fellow Member back Klaška, so that it would be really effective. I'll get to that in my performance today, or maybe next week. Unfortunately, it was not supported by coalition partners. However, we were assured that the Senate would be willing to correct these parameters. Unfortunately, even in the Senate, it has failed to find a sufficient majority. We tried a year later to fix these things, and it didn't work out again. In the meantime, we have had the opportunity to follow the question of how some business entities, especially large entrepreneurs, can perfectly optimize their tax returns through koruna bonds. I remember a meeting with the Minister of Finance, today's Prime Minister, at the Office of the Government, when he told me that tax optimization was something that was okay, that he was learning. I understand he's a weird businessman who doesn't. I've been a businessman since the second year of college. I've started a business, I'm in business today. I must say that I have never given a tax return with the intention of optimizing as much as possible and not paying taxes to the state. I've always followed the principle of the Emperor, Emperor. I, too, live off the expense of the state, and my family. I sometimes carried out units of thousands, sometimes tens of thousands of crowns on taxes, social contributions and taxes. However, I was trained in this. I confess that I do not know in the last six months how the Financial Administration's survey in the area of koruna bonds has ended. Perhaps it would be appropriate if there was some partial report on how these things progress, that it would be published, let us not just talk about some group of entrepreneurs and businessmen who are suspected of increasing tax optimization. [[14.00 hours]] However, I would like to ask perhaps by next week, because we have the last minute of the performance, Minister, I will continue my speech next week, a few details. And that is, if what she said was going to be on social media, on the Ministry of Finance's website, if it could be properly added to the explanatory report and to the material that we have here as Members, because it seems to me like a thing that should be absolutely standard. So let's update this. And I would also like to ask you to give a really good explanation on the basis of which the limit of CZK 200,000 occurred. I'm going back to her next week because I don't see too much logic in setting that line. And I'm going to allow myself to keep quiet for a while, and I'm going to leave to the President how he's going to deal with this timeline, because I'm definitely going to have my speech for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u77	It's up to you, I can't interrupt you somehow. It's already 14 o'clock, so if you've finished the show...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u78	I'm ready to continue it, but I think it's serious to interrupt it on Friday and leave me on next week's show.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-14-ps2017-019-04-004-029.u79	Okay, okay, well, I'd let you guys talk some sense into me, of course, but if you want to end your performance, I'd end the meeting on Tuesday 18th, based on the agreement of the MPs. 9:00 p.m. Have a nice weekend.
