ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u1	13. The proposal of Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue a law amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended / House print 39/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as press 39/1. I ask that Mr Jiří Kobza speak for the appellants as representatives of the appellants. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u2	Mr President, Members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, we are putting forward our proposal -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u3	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I'm going to ask the House for some peace. If there's anything you need to discuss, please, outside the boardroom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u4	We submit our proposal to amend Penal Code No. 40/2009 Coll., House Press No. 39. Ban the promotion and dissemination of hate ideologies is our debt to eliminate the shortcomings of a valid law that does not address the issue of ideologies promoting hatred for groups of people based on race, sex, faith or nationality. It is time to correct this lack and the wording of the law to supplement the two words "or ideologies." This is not only about hateful and hostile ideologies that already exist and which are widely known, but also about those that we may not yet know, which can be imported to us in the future or which can yet arise, whether they are hiding under various "-isms." Let us therefore give our police an effective tool so that they can deal with hate ideologies by law now and in the future. It is our commitment to the voters that we will take care of the security of this country and its citizens. So let us honour this commitment across the political parties and support this amendment. Our citizens really deserve it. Because if any ideology calls for hatred, we must beware of it, and we must have a law that will allow us to confront it in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u5	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Vice-President Okamur, Mrs Valachová wishes to comment on the vote last time. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u6	I would just like to say, for the purposes of the tape screen, that for the vote number 14, for the motion to reject the amendment to the law on church restitution, I voted no, but it did. So I just want it to be recorded that I voted no.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u7	Thank you. It will be recorded. The rapporteur has yet to speak, and I apologise to the Vice-President, so please Mrs Válková, who is designated by the rapporteur. [[She's sick.]] Oh, she's excused. So if Mr. Benda takes the lead... We will vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. So I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of Mr Benda becoming rapporteur instead of Mrs Válková, who is excused. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 18, registered 163, for 114, against no one, the proposal was adopted. I therefore ask the newly designated rapporteur to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u8	Mr President, Vice-President, I am sorry, I did not know who is now sitting behind the front desk, ladies and gentlemen, I did not really take up the rapporteur until now, because I found out only now that Mrs Válková is excused. The bill was presented to you by the plaintiff. I would like to say that the Government has adopted an opinion that is neutral, in which it raises certain doubts as to whether this standard is necessary, but has not told us whether it recommends or does not recommend the standard. She took the stand of a smart hobby, which I think is a pretty reasonable position for a government in demise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u9	Thank you. I am opening the debate and, with priority rights, Vice-President Okamura is reporting to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill from the SPD pen we are discussing has already been rejected by the past government of the ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL. And even today, when we have a different government, many politicians have previously rejected it. I opposers, please: Instruct us what is wrong with our proposed ban on promoting the fight against human rights and hate! The aim of the proposed amendment to Section 403 of the Criminal Code is to prevent public hatred of other people and the suppression of human rights and freedoms. Our proposal didn't come out of the blue. It is a response to a specific trial with the President of the Muslim community in Prague, Vladimír Sáňka, who showed that the criminal law has a formal gap. It can now be interpreted as affecting only the promotion of a particular movement that proclaims the suppression of freedoms, but not the very ideology that represents and promotes hatred and the destruction of human rights. In a specific case, the accused Sáňka participated in the editorial and publication of the book Basics of Tauhid - Islamic Concept of God, which according to Czech expert and judicial expert Pavel Ťupek - I quote - "speakably encourages hatred of non-Islamic governments, which is a doctrine that is being spread by radical Islam. This book Basics of Tahíd is basically proof of the book on the uniqueness of boží, which served as such a teaching text for the Bladder movement, which was very radical." End of the quote of forensic expert Pavel Ťupek. The author of this book, which was distributed in the Czech Republic, is Bilal Philips, a Canadian-Jamaican convert to Islam, which was found guilty of spreading Islamic extremism in Germany, England, Australia, and Kenya, so he was forbidden to enter these countries. As a means of correcting criminals in his book - which, I stress again, has been distributed in the Czech Republic, and apparently with impunity - the author of the book promotes the mutilation of convicts as a means of correcting convicts by Philips. Other controversial views of Philips include the claim that Sharia, under Islamic law, is not a rape if a husband has sex with his wife through physical violence. Philips defends Islamic Sharia law in the areas of physical punishment: flogging, stoning, hand-and-legging, etc. Supports marriage with immature girls, i.e. under 15 years of age, which he considers legitimate following the model of the founder of Islam Mohamed. Philips also commands believers to hate non-Islamic governments. And at the end of the book Philips explains one of the laws of Islamic Sharia law, and that is the inequality of unbelievers with Muslims before Alláh and his laws. I quote from the book of Philips: "It also involves a group commitment to implementing Alláhův's laws everywhere on earth. Therefore, the believers in Alláhův's eyes are superior to the unbelievers because they accept their responsibilities." The end of the quote by the author of the book Philips, it is the book Basics of Tauhid, which was completely distributed with impunity in the Czech Republic. The only reason the Czech court liberated Muslim extremist is because it did not promote movement but ideology. The second most influential Czech Muslim Sáňka did not commit a crime simply because he promoted Salafist ideas rather than movements by spreading Islamic extremism. On this case we see that Czech legislation is insufficient, and this is compared to for example. with Germany and England. And we are just adding two words "or ideology" to the penal code for the word "damaging" so that we can be completely affected by these phenomena. The fact that our bill will not be easy in the Czech Republic is due to the fact that it would pose a threat to Czech Islamists. And they probably have a defense in the House. Although I know that our proposal raises great opposition to the advocates of shoreless multiculturalism, there is no other way. The law is designed to protect not only some suppression of human rights, but also our lives from terrorism. The essence of the problem of terrorism is not in terrorism. Terrorism is just a combat tactic in the name of some ideology that creates the need for terrorism. Throughout the world, young Muslims who grew up in European countries often have good schools. What happened to them turning into ruthless murderers and torture monsters? Nothing more, nothing less than some imam brainwashed by a monstrous Islamic ideology led to an orthodox form. Not only do doctors know that prevention is the best medicine. You don't stop until the flood comes, but preventively, to protect yourself from the flood. That is what our SPD movement has been trying to do all along in connection with migration and Islam. If we do not allow the spread of ideologies in the Czech Republic that order us to murder, which deny democracy and human rights, then we will prevent many misfortunes in the future and save people's lives. Moreover, such a law is fully in line with the principles of our Constitution. The freedom of each of us ends where each other's freedom begins. The Czech Republic currently has three Czech victims of Islamic terrorism. And all of them so far abroad. In countries where the concentration of Islamic radicals is much greater. And let's not be illusioned that it'll be better! On the contrary, it will only get worse and worse. Because not only does the migration wave end, but the time will come when Muslim communities will discover our republic to a greater extent. Let us do all we can to lure Islamists as little as possible. Let's do our best not to give birth to radicals in our country. It is our duty to our citizens, whom we represent, and to our families and their families. I beg you to support our proposed amendment to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u11	With a factual remark, the Minister of Justice. [[Mr Benda: The debate has not yet begun.]] The Vice-President was the first in the debate, so I think that factual is possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u12	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to make one thing right. The thing that Mr Okamura here spoke of is a living thing. And that thing isn't over, that is. There's only a first-rate verdict. And it's quite possible that this thing will turn out differently in the appeals court. Otherwise, I don't think there's anyone in this House who wants to protect anyone who proclaims a hateful ideology. It is only about the level of setting up criminal restrictions, i.e. what is already criminal in the conduct of the reprehensible. I have nothing against the possible tightening of the crime of declaring hate, however much I think it may fall on some of the plaintiffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u13	I'll ask the Vice-President if it was a factual or preferential right. Really. Then you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, there's no point in responding to some of the stupid things the Minister said, some of the invectors. Let the voters judge that. They will decide democratically in elections what political views and political agenda they want to promote in the House. I know that there are a number of parties here that do not agree with the outcome of the elections and will try to challenge the outcome of democratic elections all the time and try to do this in their own way. But we're not. We are Democrats, we honor the democratic outcome of the elections. And although we disagree with the views of other political parties, we will be happy to work with everyone, and we will be happy to deal with everyone because the citizens have decided to do so. That's the difference between these opinions and our opinions. So back to that thing, but it was a point of fact. Well, he's not done with the trial. But first, the Minister of Justice himself has been a minister for about three or four years, and the courts have been here for more than ten years. So then we could start a debate here, what you did to speed up the trial, when the result is still more or less the same, and the citizens are still complaining. But I don't want to get involved in this debate either. However, wait ten years for the result of the court and various appeals, so then we really will not see the result and in the meantime a lot of things can happen. But the fact that the Court of First Instance has already interpreted the existing diction of the law so that it essentially freed Mr Sáňka, the head of the Muslim municipality of the Czech Republic, for the dissemination of such a horrible book, which is banned in Germany and England, shows that it is necessary to respond quickly even in view of the length of legal proceedings. You don't mean that, Minister, seriously, your argument. We're supposed to wait here for ten years, and for ten years, there's gonna be a book that's forbidden elsewhere and that promotes radical Islam? Well, that's crazy what you're saying here. And we're trying to fix the situation. And now that the movements are banned, we're just giving ideologies, it's nothing to do with anything. I mean, it's just an update on the current situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u15	Now the rapporteur has the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u16	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not propose the rejection of this bill. I just want us all to be aware of what's really in it. I don't have anything against him. I've always said, as long as we have individual crimes of slander, we should also have collective crimes, or we can decide not to have any verbal crimes. Both options are possible, but I have to combine them somehow. However, what this bill is about - that is why I do not fundamentally protest against it - is not about Islam at all. Just a little heads-up for Vice-President Okamura. There's no Islam, there's no religion, there's no word. There is only the expansion of the movement or ideology. I consider this a possible solution in the Czech legal order, even in relation to many other ideologies, e.g. Marxist, Nazi, fascist and other useful, which is why I think we should talk about it on the floor of the various committees. But let's not pretend that this is something to deal with some church's questions. No, it is meant to address the issue of spreading a hateful ideology that is not connected to any movement in the territory at the time. If this has anything to do with the process that's going on with Mr. Sáňka, I'm not quite sure. We'll figure it out, see if it turns out in two years or three years. But only to be aware of this. We are going in a fairly broad way towards the fact that anyone who preaches ideology towards suppressing human rights and freedoms almost anything can be prosecuted for that. And that's what we're supposed to talk about. Please don't mix it with Islam, let's not mix it even, because if someone expressly reports another religious, class hatred or hatred against another group of persons, then it is criminally punishable according to the existing regulations, according to the current diction § 403. All we're talking about here is whether it must be a specific entity, whether in the form of a legal person or at least an illegal entity in the sense of the movement in the Czech Republic, or whether it seems to us that the spread of some ideas is so terribly harmful that I may not have a group of people to do it, but all I have to do is proclaim this hateful ideology. I ask that we stick to this substance so that we do not hear 40 lectures here about how dangerous or secure Islam is, especially in a situation where - although I partially commended the Vice-President, but voted in favour of the release of the taxation of church compensation, which should have been one of the ways to protect the traditional, own churches in the Czech Republic. About ten minutes ago, they voted for release. So let's not mix it up with Islam. Let us discuss whether this type of ideology is to be criminally sanctioned and not at all related to what side, which spectrum of religious, non-religious, mental ideology comes from. This is simply an ideology. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u17	Thank you. Really, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore assumed that Members had come to know our bill in advance, so, of course, I am giving Mr Benda here the truth through Mr President. It's about ideology. Nothing's specified here. So I don't see why we couldn't specify the current state of affairs if it's already true of the movement. For example, we are the SPD movement, so I don't understand Mr. Pelikán's inventions. If it were any different, I don't think we're gonna be here anymore. So, once again, it shows the total ignorance of the Minister of Justice, that's a really incredible thing. But, of course, we want to specify it to the ideology. However, I have to make Mr Benda a little more specific here, through Mr President, because I have quoted directly from the reasoning of the judgment of the judge of the first instance, who wrote directly in that liberating judgment that because the accused Sáňka did not promote the movement but the ideology, so he did nothing. So, on the contrary, this particular case has put it into the issue of Islam. And in this context, I'll admit that I've noticed this gap, it's two years ago, because the first instance court has been back two years, which again shows that the minister here is out of reality, because if the trial isn't over after two years, then it just shows that we're not going to see it for a very long time, so it needs to be clarified. So I think it's pretty clear why we're proposing this here. And we just want to and we're gonna talk about Islam here, because it was the judge of the first instance of the Prague court that raised the subject. He named it on the example of Islam that it's actually okay to spread such thoughts here. So here we are going to talk about the subject, and we have to say what Islam is, what Islamic ideology is, so that we can say what it is actually possible to accept based on existing laws in the Czech Republic and what ideologies can be actually spread here. I indicated it in my speech, but I'm sure my colleague Jiří Kobza will comment on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u19	Thank you, too. Furthermore, Mr Kobza is currently enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u20	Mr President, thank you for the floor. As many of you know, I have spent about 14 years in the Islamic environment in different countries, so I would like to share my experience with you. I have nothing against Islam in the home environment, but I insist that we stand here in Europe on Christian-Jewish foundations, and therefore, for example, with Chancellor Merkelová's statement that Islam belongs to Germany, I absolutely cannot identify myself. Islam is a very complex ideology that deals with the smallest details of Muslim personal life, their relationship to unbelievers up to the methodology of expansion into non-Muslim countries and their Islamization, which has recently been called political Islam according to the doctrine of Imam Chomejní. One regulation extends to the whole of teaching - non-adaptation, non-integration, superior to Muslims over cafes, the obligation to Islamize non-Islamic countries and dominate them with all the possibilities and instruments of democracy. All of this under the ever-increasing demands of Islamic colonists and willing and cowardly concessions of host states' governments, hosted in the sense of biological. There is a difference between the beautiful words of Islamologists about the contribution of Islam to Europe and the cruel reality that we see not only in the Middle East and North Africa, torn apart by the civil war, but also in Western Europe, clenched in an endless situation between violence, terror and political correctness. It is not worth so much effort to see the situation in the countries west of us, where Islamists take power in certain areas, the Muslim enclaves under the domination of the Sharia police, where locals are afraid to go. On the other hand, we see the tolerance of teenage wives, even polygamy, under the pretext that it is in the interests of children. And I'm not going to talk about violence against women, violence on the street, not even talking about terrorism that, according to London's mayor, Sadiq Khan, we're supposed to get used to as part of our lives. Thank you, I don't want to. I want to talk about something else. And that is how far Western Europe wants to retreat. Does he even have a place to back up? The European Union's pressure to redistribute migrants almost gives the impression that they want to force them into Central Europe just so that the difference between the Central European Europeanism we still have here and Western European Islamization is not so marked and that their politicians' responsibility for this state of Western European countries is not so shamefully obvious. Do you think we're safe here in the Czech boiler? We Čech have our victims of Islamic terrorists. And here I would correct Mr Okamura's previous speaker, because there were five of them. I can read their names here because they are specific people and deserve respect: Petr Kořán, Pavel Hrůza, Ivo Žďárek, Naďa Čižmárová, Lenka Civínová. They were killed by a fanatic who wanted to kill random unbelievers just because they were on vacation or somewhere at hand. Since 9/11, more than 5,000 Američan and Evropan, including the victims of 9/11, have been killed by terrorists. So how many more victims will it take to wake up Islam's apologies and begin to understand what's going on? Isn't the story of turning Lebanon from a democratic, open and multicultural beautiful country into a bloodbath of civil war enough? Let us say this clearly and loudly: Islam according to our standards and also according to the results of the legal proceedings with Mr Sáňka is confirmed as an ideology incomparable to the democratic values of our civilization and culture. In his view, democracy is weak, rotten, and reprehensible. Islam is the ideology of the chosen, free franchise with the promise of a paradise full of pleasures for everyone who dies for it. Everyone can join, but no one can come out because heresy is a capital crime. But let us discuss the question of the difference between faith and Islam's policy. I would use the beautiful definition of Professor Bill Warner, the world-famous translator of Islamic writings. If anyone prays in Arabic at home, turned to the southeast, it's his faith, his private business, and no one has a problem with it. But if with another 500 or five thousand praying on the main street, it's political Islam, it's politics. The legal regulation we propose is to build a barrier to all the hateful ideologies that are, will arise, because we understand the seriousness of the moment in which we find ourselves. We are trying to learn from what is happening in Western Europe. We are trying to exploit this experience in order to be able to defend ourselves. The purpose of the law is not to ban Islam. The purpose of the law is to stand up to the promotion of hate ideologies known and unknown and to put them outside the law, after merit. I'd still like to respond to Minister Pelikán. I quite understand what he said, why he said, because if my brother was a practicing, active Muslim, I would probably speak the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u21	The next enrollment is Mrs Jarošová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u22	Hello. Ladies and gentlemen, freedom of political thought and religious conviction is guaranteed to every citizen of the Czech Republic by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. It is a document that determines the inaccessibility of prosecution for political or religious beliefs. This is absolutely fine and it is the privilege of companies claiming democratic principles. Yet there are understandable restrictions that define the limits of this freedom. This restriction is defined in Section 403 of the Criminal Code. Among other things, it is said: who proclaims racial, ethnic, national, religious, or class resentment or hatred against another group of persons will be punished for 1-5 years in prison. If this provision is part of a criminal law, then how is it possible that an ideology proclaiming hatred for Žid, for young believers, for sexual minorities, and for their destruction not prosecuted? How is it that, on the one hand, we criticize and prosecute speeches on social networks, and on the other hand, we tolerate words that are also heard in our mosques and which demand the introduction of Sharia law? Yes, the right that defines a woman only half the value of a man and which is known for its cruelty to humans, to animals. If the promotion of Nazism is admissible, why is the promotion of Islam equally unacceptable, which proclaims the same destruction of the Jewish nation and the obliteration of Israel from the face of the earth? If the only argument is that billions of people profess this teaching, then our understanding of the interpretation of the law is very elastic. If we do not find the courage to punish these speeches and statements, then we certainly cannot call ourselves Democrats, because we do not have the strength or the desire to protect democracy against all who hate it, including Sharia law promoters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u23	I beg you, Mr. Rozvoral. I'm sorry, Vice-President Pikal makes a point of fact, so he comes first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u24	I did not want to take precedence, but I am a little sorry that the debate in the House in the slowest state in the world is dominated by the themes of churches and religious societies, not only today, not only in this point, but also in the previous one. And I have one thing to say. There are no bans against ideologies or untruths. There are arguments against ideologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u25	In fact, Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Beautiful noon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask colleagues from the SPD not to publicize here by having mosques in the Czech Republic. We have no mosques, colleagues from the SPD, in the Czech Republic. If we have something here, it's a prayer room. So please use the right terminology and don't panic here among the public that there are mosques in the Czech Republic at this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u27	I do not see any further factual remarks, so now the Member has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear government, our SPD movement proposes this law amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended. This is the regulation of § 403, which falls under the special part of the Criminal Code under Title 13 Part 1 - Criminal offences against humanity, against peace and war crimes. In the introduction, I would mention that the bill is in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and with the international treaties which our Republic has undertaken to comply with and will thus have no impact on the state budget from the point of view of the increase in finance. Our SPD movement is making it very clear to everyone that we want to have a legal standard treated by every socially dangerous public act leading to promoting hatred, denying human rights and limiting equality between people without distinction of nationality, belonging to an ethnic group, race, class or other group of persons. The proposed draft of the Penal Code, the members of the SPD movement and all the members of the movement, should be 100% supported, should clearly say what the legislature and society want, thus preventing socially dangerous public promotion of hatred and denial of human rights, as Islamic ideology also proclaims. Some Members, who constantly publicly accuse our movement as extremist, refer to our proposal as our populist gesture. So I ask what they have done to ensure that there is every such speech in our country, which will fulfill the deed of the newly proposed paragrafo version of the criminal law, para. 1 Paragraph 403 of the Criminal Code, duly investigated and applied by legal standards. The new proposed regulation of the aforementioned paragraph of the Criminal Code puts in the hands of law enforcement authorities, namely courts, prosecutors and especially the Police of the Czech Republic, an instrument whereby they can make better decisions about the legal qualification of unlawful acts, which will show the marks defined in this paragraph. This will facilitate the decision-making of the Police of the Czech Republic, at the most important initial stage, when they will learn about possible infringements and begin to examine all available information to determine legal qualifications. Within the framework of success, it would be appropriate to work as soon as possible with a manual for members of the Police of the Czech Republic, which would define the basic concepts contained in this paragrafo version of the Criminal Code, such as movement, ideology, suppression of human rights and freedoms, racial, ethnic, national, religious or class resentment or hatred against another group of persons. All these activities should be conducted in order to ensure that criminal offences fulfilling the characteristics of such a defined paragrafo text are properly identified and punished fairly by their perpetrators under the law. In doing so, management must act to consolidate legality, prevent and prevent crime, educate citizens in a spirit of consistent maintenance of laws and rules of civil coexistence, as well as honorary fulfilment of obligations to the State and society. Consequently, it would be appropriate to ensure that citizens are given information on completed criminal prosecutions under the newly amended Section 403 of the Criminal Code. In doing so, the proposed law does not limit any human faith, merely restricts public dissemination and promotion of an ideology that threatens the freedoms of others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u29	Thank you, Mr Rozvoral. We will continue the debate. Member Lubomír Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. In our SPD movement, Tomio Okamura suggests that the support of ideologies, which are proven to be aimed at suppressing human rights and freedoms, or proclaiming racial, ethnic, national, religious or class resentment or hatred against another group of people. I have no idea why we should have any conflicting debate here about this adjustment. Hateful ideologies clearly do not belong in Europe of the 21st century. However, the story of a properly performed police procedure, a well-managed police investigation, and finally a Solomonian court decision draws attention to the possibility that exists in our country, spreading hatred if you do not spread it as a member of an organization, but only as an ideology. These are the back door, which sooner or later will be very actively used by all those who will use it with the help of private profit organisations fed from the state budget and money from influential foreign lobbyists to spread hate ideologies, and therefore should stick to the words of the classic and close this door. I would like to thank the Members of ODS and TOP 09 who supported church restitution, and the KDU Members who have spoken here today and used rhetoric for which every SPD member would be named xenophobe and Islamophobe, because we have just learned today that these religious restitutions have been approved so that the Muslim community in the Czech Republic does not receive state financial contributions. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I'm just sorry that you guys aren't gonna be frequented by our anti-Czech, anti-public media. Through Mr President to Mrs Černochová. I would also like to thank you for taking over the SPD rhetoric and you realize that the possible existence of mosques in the Czech Republic would really scare the public. Thank you for publicly supporting the rhetoric of our movement. Thank you for your attention. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u31	I thank Mr Lubomír the Volný. Mrs Černochová will respond with a point of fact. My colleague Vích will wait. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u32	Not so goodbye, my colleague, through the Vice-President. We still have a few more hours to talk about. But maybe you didn't understand my performance when I repaired your colleague, who actually uses here, or maybe lives in the misconception that there are mosques here in the Czech Republic. There are no mosques here, there are only prayer rooms. So if I'm correcting your colleague's ignorance, if it's a direct point for you to use your rhetoric, I feel sorry for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Lubomír Vích also with a factual remark? [[Intel from the diaper.]] I've logged your application, if you're giving it up, it's possible. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u34	Through Mr President to Mrs Němcová. [[Black people]] Prayers always start. If we have not followed the correct terminology, I cannot, of course, apologize for my colleague, but the important thing is that you said that information about mosques in the Czech Republic frightens the public. Yes, information about mosques in the Czech Republic will scare the public. And I thank you again for using the SPD rhetoric. The existence of mosques in the Czech Republic will frighten the public. You're right, colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We are continuing the debate. Mr Radovan Vích, duly registered, will be prepared by colleague Ferjenčík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As a SPD movement, we submit a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic for a new amendment to the Criminal Code containing a ban on the establishment, dissemination or promotion of ideology in a proven way aimed at suppressing human rights and freedoms or declaring racial, ethnic, national, religious or class resentment or hatred against another group of people. It follows from Articles 16 and 17 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms that the exercise of the right of freedom of expression, as well as the right to freely exercise its religion, may be restricted in the event of the necessary measures to protect public security and order, health and morality or the rights and freedoms of others. As there is already such a restriction in the Criminal Code for the Movement to suppress the rights and freedoms of man or proclaiming, among other things, religious resentment, it is unfortunately also necessary to address the manifestations of ideologies aimed at suppressing the rights and freedoms of man or proclaiming religious resentment. The SPD's proposal is not about suppressing the spread of, for example, individual religions, but about their perhaps over-aggressive ways, which society is no longer willing to tolerate, because they are too limited to other people's freedom and can be dangerous to society as such. It is therefore the setting of certain boundaries for the public dissemination of ideas, namely the determination that society can still tolerate and which no longer. Dear Members, I ask you to support this SPD proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u37	Thank you. Now Mr Lubomír Volný's point of fact, then the plaintiffs' representatives with a factual remark? [[Yes.]] In fact. Okay. Mr Free First. Electronically logged in - priority over "from place." Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u38	Yes. Sorry, it is still a factual comment on the existence of mosques in the Czech Republic. According to public server Wikipedia in the Czech Republic there is a Brno mosque. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u39	Thank you. Now, therefore, Mr Kobza, with a point of fact and Mrs Mrs Kobza, also with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u40	Thank you. I would just like to respond, through Mr President, to the contribution made by Mrs Černochová. There is a server Islam.cz and there is a section of the mosque. There you can read about mosques in the Czech Republic, such as a mosque in Prague on the Black Most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u41	Thank you. Mrs Černochová is registered to a factual remark, she can speak. Then you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u42	Through the Vice-President of the SPD, it is sad what ignorance of legislation on your part is presented here. There really cannot be mosques in the Czech Republic, because the debate, and it will certainly be remembered at least by your President of the Okamura movement, or by a colleague of Fiala who was here during the last parliamentary term when the Chamber of Deputies discussed the application for registration of the Muslim community. And since the registration is not to the extent to which mosques can be created in the Czech Republic, there are no mosques. And if anyone here, my colleague, quotes Wikipedia through the Vice-President, really, don't be mad at me, that's a complete display of desperation. You really live in the idea that everything's okay on Wikipedia? You must have fallen from Mars!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Černochová. My colleague Ferjenčík will wait. My colleague, Lubomír Volný, claims a point of fact. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u44	Yes, thank you. Mrs Černochová, through Mr President, I do not know where you fell from, whether from cherries or from Mars, that is your private problem, but this is not about the terminology or legislation. The point is that there are buildings that those who practice their monstrous ideology in them consider as mosques, publicly referred to as mosques, and publicly treated as mosques. If we call what really works and works like a mosque prayerful because our law doesn't allow it otherwise, it's just that you lie in your own pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u45	Thank you. I will ask my colleague Ferjenčík to be patient because Mrs Levová applied for a factual point. My colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u46	Please, you said that there are no mosques in the Czech Republic because it doesn't allow our law. And I say, in the Czech Republic, the law school doesn't study for a year or six months, but four five six, if he's a doctor. And yet here are the diplomas. They are, and yet they can't!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u47	Thank you for keeping time, and now my colleague Ferjenčík will get to the floor. Before the counter comes, I will read the apologies received, namely Mr Petr Pávek from 12 to 13 hours for work reasons, Mr Lubomír Španěl from 12.30 to Friday and Mr Zdeněk Ondráček between 12.30 and 14 hours. Now, Mr Ferjenčík - duly signed up for the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u48	Thank you for the floor. Pirates are primarily a movement of freedom of speech and we think that the rapid expansion of verbal crimes in the Czech Republic does not make much sense. On the contrary, we think that it would be appropriate to look at these verbal crimes and consider whether some of them are redundant in the Code of Criminal Procedure and some of these issues should not be dealt with more civilly. So I'm definitely suggesting that this law be rejected. I would also like to point out that the debate is on Islam, but the rule is on ideology, and I would very much hate for SPD members to be persecuted on the basis of these paragraphs. I think the SPD needs to be defeated in elections, not prosecuted. So I think it's pretty unfortunate to increase crime in this way. So I think it's better to reject it, and please support the motion to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u49	I thank Mr Ferjenčík and the last duly signed Member is Mr Marek Výborný and Mr Kobza, Mr Kobza, representative of the appellants, then. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u50	Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, Colleagues, I shall return a little to the substance of the matter and to the substance. I think we can all agree here, regardless of whether we are applying to one or the other political party, that promoting Islamic extremism and some overall radicalisation of some groups of people throughout the European area, this is not just about the Czech Republic, it is a serious security and social problem, but, and that is very important, please, let us not run into the SPD's decoy here and their quite obviously cheap solution. As far as the proposal to amend Section 403 of the Criminal Code is concerned, this is indeed a classic expression of undesirable legislative diligence. Nothing else. I believe that the whole complex issue of the Criminal Code, which involved among others a number of leading experts, is not to be dealt with by some superficial, and yes, for someone and for the public and perhaps for SPD voters with a very pleasing and seemingly logical addition of one word. First of all, the proposal, and already mentioned here by the Minister, is justified only by the course, I would point out, by the course of one particular criminal trial, which, as we have heard, is not yet finally finished. He'll probably go into several instances, and no one here can predict how the case will end after that. Furthermore, and I think that it is also very important, and of course, any living case that should become an advisor to us, to legislation, to the Chamber of Deputies, is always quite dangerous and is a bad advisor. Two. The proposal draws only one deed from the context and neglects others related to this possible crime, such as defamation of a nation, race, ethnic or other group of persons, or incitement to hatred against a group of persons or to restrict their rights and freedoms, and it is likely that these facts can also be applied to these situations. So the question is whether the SPD proposal here is artificially creating a gap in the Code of Criminal Procedure, where these things are already being dealt with. [[12.20 hours]] And in a formal way, now I must return to the government's position, it is described as neutral, but in principle it is very ingeniously opposed. In formal terms, in view of our practice, we can assume that a neutral position is, in principle, a relatively favourable evaluation of the parliamentary proposal, but if we read further, the proposal is - so it is stated in the Government's opinion that the proposal contains and is justified by the pending legal proceedings. That's what the Minister said. The government does not find a gap in the Code of Criminal Procedure that would have to be filled with an amendment, and finally the proposal has technical legislative shortcomings. So I don't fully understand the government's position, which is described as neutral. And here's where I'll take the final remark. I am once again impressed by the fact that there is an attempt to run over some act of trust by the government and not to mess with the party that the ANO movement is negotiating with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u51	I thank Mr Marek the Výborný. I have more applications. First, Mr Holík's factual remark, then the proper application by Mr Pavel Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a supplement to the proposal here. I am not saying that everything is perfect, and therefore I would respond to the words of my colleague, Mr Výborný, through Mr President. Let us do the following: Let us put this law into second reading, express ourselves to it. We for the SPD movement promise to make your comments and put them into it. [[Nesroz.]] So once again, let's do the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u53	Thank you, Mr Kobza has changed his application to de facto, so my colleague Blažek will wait. Please, Mr. Ambassador. I've registered you as logged in from the scene, but if you're applying for facts, you have your say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u54	Thank you, Mr President. By your means, I would like to respond to my colleague Ferjenčík from the pirát, saying that I would like to point out that in our history we have had enough experience with hate ideologies from the past, and we should be sensitive and careful enough to leave them unsupervised, as we say. And it's certainly not a restriction on freedom of speech. In our opinion, it is precisely about protecting freedom, the freedom of all of us. To Mr Excellent through Mr President, I would like to point out that our movement is certainly not political, we are not campaigning. It's a gap in the law, to which he basically pointed out even an open case. And since we're aware of the gravity of this gap, we're trying to close it with our novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u55	I thank Mr Jiří Kobza. Colleague Blažek will wait a little longer because colleague Ferjenčík has applied for a factual comment this time. I've been measuring you for two minutes, Mr. Ambassador, you have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u56	Thank you for the floor. In my opinion, it is absolutely absurd for someone to put forward a proposal that clearly concerns freedom of speech, in fact introducing a new verbal crime, i.e. a crime that you can commit only by expressing yourself and at the same time claiming that freedom of speech does nothing. That's totally bizarre. That law limits freedom of speech. Of course, it is up to each member's club and every MP to consider whether he wants to limit the freedom of speech a little more or not, but let us call it true names. This is clearly a proposal to restrict freedom of speech in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u57	I thank Mr Ferjenčík for keeping time on the point of fact and, therefore, now colleague Pavel Blažek, duly signed up for the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u58	Hello, thank you for your word. Let me just remind you, I always say that the first reading of the law is about whether the House wants to deal with a topic or not. I'm quite opposed to whether this proposal is more or less well-made, that's what the other readings are for us to talk about. And so I must say that if Mr Okamura is saying here, I have never done this, these questions in detail, that maybe the courts lack some clarification in order to prosecute certain acts that interest the people of this state, not that they are not interested in it, so I see no problem at all for myself, why we should not release this law to second reading and continue talking about it. It's very brief, and the problem is here. It tells the public that we don't really care, and that would be the message, a good message just isn't. So I totally support the release for second reading, and what my colleague says now I don't know which one it was, so I'm sorry that he doesn't really mind the plaintiff's case that it has to be literally the way it is, but the point is that there's some sense of it being preserved, so there's actually an offer for it to be properly and normally discussed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u59	I thank Mr Pavel Blažek. Now, Mr Tomio Okamura. We are still in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I've listened to the debate here, so even though I don't normally respond to the pirát' statement, it's not even a reaction to an expression here. I guess he wasn't here, fellow MP. So he said we wanted to limit freedom of speech. So I would just repeat for him what the pirát would like to promote in the Czech Republic, so that freedom of speech is not limited. So, as a means of correcting people and criminals, this book in the Czech Republic is currently promoting the mutilation of convicts, further that, under Islamic law, Sharia is not a rape, if a husband performs sex with his wife with physical violence, further in this book is defended the Islamic law of Sharia in the areas of physical punishment, flogging, stoning, hand-and-legging, etc., supports marriage with immature girls under 15 years of age. I don't want such things to be promoted here in the Czech Republic. So here we have a contradiction with the pirát, yes, but we don't want it. And it's like your Internet freedom. I'm sure, but if we went along with your logic, it's not forbidden here, for example. on the Internet child pornography. And we are in favour of banning child pornography. Just when the whole society evaluates certain phenomena as socially harmful after a deep discussion of experts, the freedom of the Internet also has certain limitations. And we are in favour of such a phenomenon being simply banned. So it's not what you're saying, there's just all-socially harmful phenomena that society somehow decided to limit after a long discussion. It's also about gambling, it's also about narcotics. I know we have some contradictions with you, too, but that's just the way it is. And so I must fundamentally limit myself, fundamentally resisting the fact that, in the Czech Republic, following the design of the pirát here, there is freedom of speech in that we can publicly promote these things here. I still consider it rather that you did not listen or were not here, because I mentioned here in the introduction what the book here, the foundations of Tauhid, was spreading, why the intervention of the Police of the Czech Republic in the mosque on the Black Most was already the intervention of the Police of the Czech Republic. Okay, I guess you see it differently. Based on the very intervention that was there, the trial is here and the debate is being held. So I really want to, and I wanted to ask you one more time, it's nothing more, it's already said in the law that such movements are forbidden. So there's no extra limit. We're just adding two words. For the word "motion," we add "or ideology." That's all there is. So it's not even any new justification. We don't add anything extra, we don't predict anything extra, we just give "or ideology" for the word "motion." That's all. So that's what this is about, and it's just a clarification based on the current judgment of the judges, not Okamura, but the judges, the judges of the first instance, I suspect it was a single judge, a judge of the first instance of the Prague City Court, and that's why we put it there. That's it. That's it. That's it. And I think, since I explained it that way, I don't think it's against anything, and we're not suggesting any revolutionary things here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u61	I thank Vice-President Tomio Okamur. Now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Pikal. It is limited to 12.30 by decision of the House. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u62	I'd like to turn against the slide that just happened here. Of course, we do not defend promoting such movements or ideologies, I feel bad that we are having more or less a language dispute here about whether the movement is ideology or not. Seems like a hell of a waste of time to me right now. Of course, we do not have any national council and we do not promote any mutilation and rape. After all, these are things that are already forbidden. We have a law that prohibits us from approving crimes, as far as I know, and these are crimes, so I don't know why we have to discuss this at all. But I wanted to say something else, but I forgot, so I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-28-ps2017-007-02-004-013.u63	Well, I would have to take your word for it anyway, because it is 12:30, and according to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, I am obliged to interrupt this point. We are in the general debate, with a factual remark signed by Mr Jiří Kobza, who will be the first to reclassify this point. Otherwise, there was a motion to dismiss and, of course, it will be the decision of the Chamber of Deputies to act on individual proposals. So I note that item number 13 has been interrupted in the general debate, and at this point I am ending the interrupted item. We will deal with the electoral points, as the Chamber of Deputies has agreed. The President of the Election Commission is present and we will begin with item number 50 and that is
