ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-005-004.u1	4. The proposal of Members of Vít Kaňkovský, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Olga Richterová, Alena Gajdůškovášková and Jan Bartošek to issue a law amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 99/ - second reading I would like to prosit Mr Vít Kaňkovský to present the motion in favour of the appellants. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-005-004.u2	Good afternoon. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me to introduce you, too, briefly, to what the amendment contains, my colleagues and mine. This is House Press 99. As has already been said here from the mouth of my colleague Jana Pastuchová, both of these proposals address the issue of the flat-rate application of the welfare vouchers, which occurred actually after the last amendment of the law on material distress last year. Both of these amendments go the way of exceptions. A colleague named Jan Sklenák has already commented on this. I will then comment on this in the context of the general debate. Every novel has its own access to exceptions. Some we agree on, some we disagree on. I think it is also a good thing that we will discuss both proposals together. Our amendment was based on the experience that we have gained, on the one hand, from the livelihoods themselves, but also after consultation with the workers of the Labour Office, with social workers, with civil counseling, and recently also with the Office of the Public Protector of Rights, who also personally visited the meeting of the Social Policy Committee, where she introduced us to cases that are problematic in the area of the application of vouchers. Those disturbances, or those problems that accompany the flat-rate application of benefits for a living ranging from 35 to 65 per cent, have been partially mentioned here. I'll mention some of them. Roman Sklenák mentioned a number of them here, some of them mentioned a colleague Jana Pastuchová. Perhaps what has not yet been said here is that most livelihood eaters have a priority need in the area of housing. They need to cover their housing costs. And it's the vouchers that can't make it happen. This applies in particular to single mothers, but also to some other population groups. It was also said that once there was a situation where vouchers or other forms of non-cash performance were applied, the Czech citizen would always adapt in some way. This has also happened in this case. There have been groups of dealers who actually buy vouchers. If we were talking about abusers here - and I, unlike Roman Sklenák, am convinced that even among those in need, there will be abusers of those benefits, then the question is what is their percentage. But I don't think it's very small. They always find a way to take advantage of the benefits by paying off the tapes. This is not beneficial for them from the point of view of the course applied, but they will certainly find their way to alcohol, cigarettes or other needs, which should not, in fact, meet the benefits. That is why, together with the National Council of Persons with Disabilities, we have prepared in quotation marks a competitive proposal on the proposal of my colleague Pastuchová. And I am just saying that the more we get into the problem, the clearer it is that the path of exceptions is problematic. But then I will mention this in the general debate. So much for the introduction to the Houses of the Press 99 and then I immediately report to the merged general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-005-004.u3	I thank Mr Kaňkovský, who made the proposal for the appellant. In this case, too, the proposal was directed to the Social Policy Committee as a guarantee committee. The committee resolution is available to us as House Press 99/2. In this case, too, the rapporteur is Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-005-004.u4	Thank you, Mr President, once again for the floor. And let me present the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy again from the 12th meeting of 10 May 2018 on the proposal by Mr Vít Kaňkovský, etc., to the House of Press 99. After a statement by Mr Vít Kaňkovský, a report by Mrs Hana Aulickáý Jírovcová and after a debate by the Social Policy Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic first recommends the Chamber of Deputies to agree to the proposal by Members of Vít Kaňkovský etc., House press 99; Secondly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinion to the Chamber of Deputies meeting and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-26-ps2017-016-01-005-004.u5	Thank you. At this point, I am interrupting the discussion of House press 99 and opening a merged general debate.
