ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u1	22. Government bill amending certain laws in the field of taxation and some other laws /house print 206/ - first reading I will ask that Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jiří Dolejš, take their seats at the rapporteur's table. I think they are both ready, and I can therefore ask the Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, who will present the proposal under the authority of the Government. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the bill amending certain tax laws and certain other laws. All amendments to tax laws, as has already become a tradition, as well as for 2019, have been linked to the so-called package. An exception is the amendment to the Sales Registration Act and the related VAT amendment, which were submitted separately. The inclusion of these amendments in one legislation increases clarity for tax entities as they are implemented by a number of separate laws, but these are contained in a single proposal. The main reason for the presentation and implementation of changes to tax laws is, in particular, the implementation of changes in the Act from 1 January 2019, for reasons of implementation changes and then for the necessary partial changes, when it responds in particular to the requirements of practice, or the uncertainties are removed. The package contains a set of amendments to ten laws, nine tax laws and a related amendment to the insolvency law. If I were to describe in more detail the content of the individual amendments as regards the amendment to the Income Tax Act, the most significant substantive changes can be mentioned in the implementation of the European directives, the ATAD, which concerns in particular the limitation of the eligibility of excessive borrowing expenditure, when it is only possible to apply borrowing expenditure in the tax base up to an amount of 80 million. CZK or 30 per cent of the EBITDA tax, then there is a solution to the unrecognizable borrowing expenses that can be transferred to other tax periods. Another principle of this amendment is taxation in the transfer of property without any change in ownership, or so-called exit tax, tax on transfer, accounting transfer of assets to a permanent establishment or head office abroad, or change of tax residency, if the Czech Republic loses the right to tax income from future sale of such property, or all of these matters relating to the fight against tax evasion. In addition, there is the taxation of a controlled foreign company, when a controlled foreign company... has more than 50% of the share of the Czech tax resident and does not carry out substantial economic activity, which means so-called empty mailboxes. The revenue of these companies is added to the controlling companies in the Czech Republic. Other areas of important change are the consequences of a different legal qualification, or so-called hybrid non-compliance, where the different legal qualifications of one legal fact in different states are solved. For example, it prevents certain transactions from being exempt in one State, while in the other it is an eligible expenditure, for example one State qualifies it as a dividend and the other as a payment of interest. Other adjustments are related to the adjustment of IFRSs when an amendment is required as a result of a change in the valuation of securities and the reporting obligation of income generated by tax residents abroad. Another amendment to the Act, which forms part of the tax package, is the amendment to the Gaming Tax Act, where topics are addressed in particular as a change in the way the refunded deposits and tax solutions of guaranteed tournaments are taken into account in the tax base. At the same time, the tightened information obligation of the municipal authorities to provide information to the tax authorities without delay and leaving only the general arrangements to provide information upon request. The amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, where the most important changes are the implementation of European directives, so-called vouchers or vouchers and e-commerce, the establishment of more detailed rules for calculating the right to deduct in part, the modification of the concept of remuneration, economic activity, the determination of the tax base in payment of a virtual currency, such as bitcoin, the extension of the possibility of exercising the right to deduct in the registration of the payer and the adjustment of the Institute of correction of the amount of the tax on receivables for debtors in insolvency proceedings, where the current provision in Section 44 is replaced by new provisions, paragraph 46 and the following, which, following the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, extends the titles on the basis of which the tax base may be corrected. Furthermore, there is an adjustment to the exemption for human blood and its components and the adjustment of fines in connection with the inspection report. The above amendment to the insolvency law addresses the confirmation of the inherentity of the State's claim by correcting the amount of the tax on receivables for debtors in insolvency proceedings, where Section 44 of the Value Added Tax Act is actually compared. I would very much like to draw your attention to the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, where, in addition to adapting the provisions governing tobacco labels, taxation of heated tobacco products which are not harmonised within the European Union is particularly important. It is based on the adjustment of excise duty on tobacco products, the rate is set at the rate of tobacco duty for smoking, equivalent to CZK 2,236 per gram, and the tax base is determined by the weight of tobacco contained in the product in grams. In the context of the Consumer Tax Act, the Combined Nomenclature code is also adjusted following an implementing decision. Further amendments to the laws included in the tax package are more of a cosmetic nature, such as the partial amendment to the Customs Act, the Tax Code, where, following European legislation, there is an explicit addition between the basic principles of tax administration, the so-called ban on abuse of law, the amendment to the International Cooperation Act on Tax Administration, which contains modifications to the implementation of DAC 2 and DAC 4, and the related international agreements following the OECD implementation evaluation. Amendment to the Financial Administration Act, which contains special rules for Financial Administration in relation to the Civil Service Act, in particular the centralisation of the issuance of service regulations, a service card. Furthermore, a minor technical amendment to the Customs Administration Act, which extends the possibilities of using cover documents by the customs office, where the identification of its identity within the scope of gambling or the registration of sales leads to the destruction of that performance. This was a brief summary of the tax package for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u3	I thank the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jiří Dolejš, to present his report. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u4	Yes. I am not going to be too extensive because this press has been sitting here in parliament for almost six months. Let's hope we can make it through the first reading today. I just can't forgive the remark that the tax package, which consists of actually two prints, that this kind of politically easier printing suffered a little bit by being behind the 205 press, which has such popular things as electronic sales records, and it also implies a certain, let's say, time stress, although today I hope we can handle it when it comes to the effectiveness of this law, because it is a technical amendment and implementation novel, but there are a whole series of things that just don't all go together to 1. 1. 2019, and if the newly elected Senate commits certain creativity, then, of course, the legislative process can, truth, stretch out, so we may still have to think about efficiency at second reading. Otherwise, as far as the key implementation section is concerned, I would just like to point out that the complex of measures, which mainly concerns the fight against aggressive tax planning, is really very important and that the implementation date is important, although the head does not tear itself apart for a slight overrun of deadlines, and that the degree of strictness of our Czech legal response is, of course, up to us as regards the nature of implementation. So that's one of the notes. [[16.10 hours]] The second point is that, of course, VAT in terms of rates is in the other press, but even here seemingly technical steps can bring about some practical effects. I am referring, for example, to the question of fines in the area of control reports. But what may be particularly worth paying attention and what needs to be resolved in some way is the application of the value added tax to public media, which by providing a little atypical service, not normally negotiable, is out of the relief regime, and of course it has some specific impact on the functioning of the public media. With regard to the whole complex of rationalization of tax administration, tax office, tax rules, etc., there is also one implementation issue that I would highlight, and that is that we have finally arrived at the adoption of the directive, which is an issue of international information exchange, an extremely important thing. I would also like to add this to what has been said here. And as far as excise duty is concerned, there may be some problems with deadlines in terms of legisvakance, etc., because there is a matter, let's say, also a modification of stickers, and the regime for special heated tobacco is also good to handle in peace, but then of course it will require some effects on the effectiveness of the law. So we're probably going to think about these things in the second reading, because in vain fame, we've missed quite a lot of time by actually waiting on the wait list for the 205 press to take place. I think that's enough to complete the introductory words. And, of course, I am aware of what you actually have, Mr Managing Director, certainly on the ground, and that there are no proposals for discussion yet other than the Guarantee Committee, and that is the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have first signed up Mrs Věra Kovářová, then Mrs Mračková and Mr Ferjenčík. First in the debate is Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to the 206 Parliamentary press, i.e. to the so-called. tax package, on behalf of the Mayors and Independents Club. The amendment responds to the development of European harmonisation on the issue of viewing the issue so called. the remuneration and case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. We will not oppose the amendment proposal in general as such, because we know that it is a harmonisation amendment. But what leads us to some doubts is that it is precisely the definition of the term so called. the subsidy to the price which, according to the current adjustment, is considered to be a subsidy to the result of the management and is therefore not subject to VAT. However, this will be included in the value added tax base on the basis of a change in the definition of price subsidy and will therefore be subject to taxation. What puzzles us is this. The explanatory memorandum states that significant fiscal impacts on public budgets are not foreseen. We consider this assessment of fiscal impacts to be entirely vague and inadequate. For example, customers of transport, i.e. the regions and municipalities and cities, estimate the impact of CZK 6 billion and this is no longer an insignificant impact. The explanatory memorandum completely lacks information on the entities to which this adjustment will apply and which will have an impact. The question is whether, for example, social services will be affected by the contribution organisation of municipalities and regions. I merely recall that the definition of the subsidy on the price includes all contributions and subsidies from public resources, i.e. it may, for example, be funds granted from the State budget, from the budget of local authorities, state funds, from grants granted under a special law, etc. So I repeat, we do not question this amendment as such, but we are questioning and reporting to define more precisely how this amendment will intervene fiscally in the budgets of the regions and municipalities in this area, and we are also questioning that the explanatory memorandum completely lacks the definition of the entities covered by this regulation. This is what we consider to be a fundamental lack of this proposal, although I know it is in the explanatory report that it is said that a new methodology by the General Financial Directorate will be developed in advance, which will also enable the payers to respond appropriately to the change. I think that we, as Members, should have such information in the explanatory report so that we can make the right decision. The above reasons, which I mentioned, led us to call on several times at the press conference for the Ministry of Finance to complete this information, possibly to supplement the method of compensation for the disabled, quotes, entities, because these entities estimate that these impacts could even be up to CZK 30 billion per year. These are the reasons which lead us to propose that this bill be returned to the applicant for completion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u7	Thank you, Mrs Věra Kovářová. She made one factual comment by Mrs. Baxa. My colleague Mračková will wait two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to briefly add to the information that Mrs Kovářová said here concerning the possible concrete effects of this forthcoming amendment, as discussed by the Union of Cities and Communities and the Association of Local Authorities. At the moment, we strongly for the city of Plzeň have estimated that the effects of this amendment would amount to CZK 210 to 250 million, which in the case of our city, which has tax revenues of around CZK 4 billion, the total budget of around CZK 6 billion, would be very serious. I firmly believe, and it seems that the next speaker in the debate will perhaps bring some positive message that this will still be addressed, because I think that in the overall package that this amendment includes, this should be set aside completely separately and deal with some other way. So I believe that the next contribution will bring a favorable report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u9	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now, Mrs Jana Mračková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to comment on the debate of Parliament's Press 206 and, above all, on what the two previous speakers have just said, both Mrs Kovářová and Mr Baxa, in terms of price subsidies. The regions are an official point of reference, and at the meeting of the Regional Association Council, we also discussed this House press and what has already been said here, so, of course, this House press would have an impact on public budgets. Unfortunately, cities, municipalities and regions are currently not prepared for this step and the effects of this law would be very negative. It has already been said here. This would have an impact on public budgets providing services to citizens, such as transport services, credit organisations, granting subsidies, etc. On the other hand, I must emphasise here, and this has also been said here by Mrs Kovářová, that we very much understand that the Minister must, of course, respect and present this proposal here for the sake of having it in accordance with the case law of the European Court of Justice. We, the Association of Regions and the Union of Towns and Communities, met a few weeks ago, because this House press was already on the agenda for the previous, previous meeting, but unfortunately it did not get on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, so we met with the Minister of Finance on this matter, we discussed all things and, above all, we explained that, of course, the effectiveness can only be from 2021. So originally, the Minister wanted to make a proposal here, and maybe he'll still consider it, I don't think so, that the efficiency could be shifted by two years. [[16.20 hours]] But I am very glad that we finally came to this meeting with the Union of Cities and Municipalities and with the Association of Regionals to the conclusion that at this moment this provision would be deleted from this bill. At the moment, I have prepared an amendment which is already in place in the system. The Minister of Finance will certainly speak today if he then supports this amendment at third reading. The amendment is already in the system. And until all things are clarified, and above all, before cities, municipalities, regions have a methodology, a cookbook, how to deal with this situation, and especially in terms of the future, the tax implications in cities, municipalities and regions. At this point, all I have to do is thank the Minister of Finance for the very helpful approach to the matter. And I would like to thank her for all the captains, captains, mayors, mayors and, above all, the leaders of the financial unions, who were very afraid of what it would do to the budgets of individual ammunition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u11	Thank you, Mrs Jana Mračková. We will continue with Mrs Věra Kovářová's factual remark, but I will read the apology of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes from 16.15 hours for business reasons. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact. A colleague of Ferjenčík will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u12	Thank you very much for your activity, Madam Governor, through Mr President. You said that you were a reminder place like the Association of Regions and that you made a reminder that there would be some consequences. So I'd like to know if you have any idea what the implications would be, at what level, because we haven't found out yet. And I regret that if the Association of Regions made it clear that there would be impacts - and significant impacts - on the budget, that the Ministry of Finance did not respond earlier, because what happened during the last months, when this proposal sparked an absolute panic between transport operators, between social service actors and so on. So much for my point. If it's known what impact it might have, then if we could at least hear it. Anyway, thank you for solving the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mrs Mračková's point of fact, you also have two minutes. My colleague Ferjenčík will wait. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u14	Thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would still like to respond to my previous speaker, Mrs Kovářová. At this point, I think it's pointless to talk about some quantification. I think it is important that we have found agreement with the Minister of Finance that at this point the amendment, which will be supported by it, and the regions, cities and municipalities have a clear guarantee that the Ministry of Finance will prepare a methodology. And only when all this is clarified will this bill be brought here again. That's all. And you said it would be handled. I think it's 99 percent settled by now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u15	Thank you for keeping time. One more point in fact, Mr Baxa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u16	Thank you for the floor. vážený President. I have now read the text of the amendment, which you, Madam President, have tabled. I would like to say with pleasure that it really says that the subject of this amendment is the release of the part that concerns the so-called price subsidy that we have criticised. I'd just like to see this whole circle come to a successful conclusion, so that this thing is very closely communicated with the authorities, whether it is with the Regional Association or the Union of Towns and Municipalities, because we are convinced, therefore, that it is not just some technical solution to how to calculate the impacts of the amendment on the budgets of the municipalities, or how it should be applied according to the methodology, but that, in the case of the "paying of contributions to the allowance organisations," it is a completely misguided matter, I would be willing to say so. Another discussion is, of course, about the payment of a proven loss. So that we don't just talk about some new methodology and impact calculations, but they really said that the very thing deserves to be discussed. And, of course, if the Minister is supported by the proposal, so that this falls out of the law now, that is the best thing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now with priority rights - a colleague of Ferjenčík still stands - Mrs. Finance Minister Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs Mr. Vildumetzová, for her performance. I'm gonna try to explain why this happened. What is the principle of subsidy to the price? It may be a little technical for you, but it can't be completely explained without me going into the techs. The point is that when the market costs, for example, a public transport ticket of CZK 100, the VAT on this ticket is now CZK 15. However, if the municipality grants a subsidy to the price, that is, it will contribute half the price to each ticket, that is, the price of the ticket for the customer is CZK 50 plus VAT CZK 7.50, so if the tax on the subsidy is not paid, then the remaining CZK 7.50 is actually an advantage of these tickets compared to the unfunded and the inequality that arises and which is not consistent with EU law. On the basis of this, and we already have a constant case-law on the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and on the basis of this case-law, this subsidy is also subject to VAT on the price. Thus, it is part of the basis for calculating the tax, for example in the form of the payment compensating for the lower price of tickets. What is not a subsidy to the price. And that's the proportion. For example, when it comes to maintaining a particular service, this means that it is not a direct relation to the price, such as admission to the theatre, but at all to maintaining a certain activity. Examples: A theatre that the municipality subsidizes with operating subsidies, not to lower prices, but to work at all. The subsidy to the bus line, which serves several villages in the evening. The price is identical here as at the same distance on attractive lines, but people drive very little, which means the self-government actually buys the existence of the line, doesn't lower the price. At present, in a number of cases the practice is inconsistent with the interpretation of VAT, i.e. an inadequate harmonised tax within the EU. The Ministry of Finance does not have an ambition to change methodological practice only on the basis of a change in caselaw, it would have to start to measure - Financial Administration, of course - for example, on the basis of the case law prepared by the Ministry and enforced by the Ministry of Finance, it would have to start to measure also during the previous period. But it is not even sustainable to maintain the current state of affairs, because he is not conform to the law of the European Union. And the longer the inaction, the incompatible, the risk of infringement and so on, other problems. However, it does not apply, and I would like to stress this, and that is where the dog is buried, it does not apply that any contract with a public service provider is a problem. Some of them are fine. Some of them would be subject to VAT after the amendment is effective, but at least some contracts can be transformed in such a way that this means adjusting them so that, while maintaining the purpose of VAT, they do not take place. There are different solutions. Then it's possible. Some can't be redesigned. These are then affected by the future adjustment. We have to say exactly then, in the context of setting the methodology that they are. And the ratios of the above are not known because logically we do not have an overview of all types of contracts concluded by the Authority. We, of course, did not have such strong reservations about this amendment, as part of the commentary procedure. She showed up later. But I caught her eye, and there's actually a two-year legisvacation period in the package today. [[16.30 hours]] This means that I have observed that, for the two years that we are actually putting down efficiency, we are going to have these discussions. We will lead them at the level of the Association of Regions, the Union of Towns and Municipalities. We're going to debate and we're actually going to set up methodically. However, after the debate, which was heated about a month ago, I entered the meeting - thank you for this Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, who is also the head of the Association of Regions, who has been very actively involved in the debate - we cooperated with the Union of Cities and Municipalities with Mr Lukl, and on this basis I am prepared to support the amendment that Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will submit, as she presented it here, and to turn it around. This means that the two-year delay has already been prepared and I am ready to agree to the exemption and to devote that time to the discussion - of course there is a risk that we can be attacked - to devote that time to discussing and setting the methodology and setting it up so that we can actually tell each other where, how, what will be subject to the VAT and what will not be. It doesn't really make it easy to calculate the effects. And if somebody did the math, hat down, 'cause I don't think it's gonna be good. With all due respect to you. With all due respect to you. Because it could turn out that maybe the state will pay the VAT. There are so many variations that it just can't be counted now. That's incalculable. And I'm convinced that if we explain this properly methodically, and I work with you, with the association, with the union to meet up with as much as possible, I have a team ready to work on it, to explain what doesn't belong there, we'll set up contracts where it doesn't fall, so we'll just have some real ones left... and then we can do the math. We can't count it before. So I'll agree with that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u19	Thank you, Minister of Finance. And my colleague Ferjenčík will wait, because we have two factual points ahead of us. First Mrs Věra Kovářová and then Mr Marian Jurečka. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u20	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. In any event, we do not question the fact that this change in the definition of the subsidy to the price, in terms of remuneration, must occur. This simply applies everywhere in Europe. What is striking, however, is that I remember that we talked about this matter not a month ago, but even before the holidays, when the novel came to the House. And you're saying that it's impossible to calculate what the impact will be, and yet you have in your explanatory report that the impacts are insignificant, or they won't be significant. I don't think that's exactly the correct procedure that I hope you can correct, as you say. And I think that, in any case, entities should be listed, or you should know, if you bring such a law, then you should know which entities it will relate to, what services. And, of course, the impact, I think, can be calculated because, as far as I know, those officials can actually do wonders there, and that's where the impact can be calculated. So I think it would be a good thing for the next time if it were to proceed in this way. And I think that if there were any indication of what services, in that explanatory report, I think it would be to avoid the very problems that you then enjoyed and which you are trying to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u21	Thank you, Mrs Věra Kovářová, for keeping the time. Mr Marian Jurečka's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u22	Thank you. Madam Secretary and Mr President, fellow Members, I must admit that I am a little distracted by the subject now that I hear from the Minister of Finance that these things cannot be counted as being unable to model exactly what the implications will be for the budgets of the regions, cities and municipalities. Then I ask myself, in what quality and how we are actually doing an analysis of RIA to such important laws as the tax package. In what it describes, what RIA is, it is written in detail that, within the framework of the RIA process, the impact assessment of regulation, we should try to hit all the regulatory areas that are affected by the law in a maximum way, and what impact it can have on the budgets of cities and municipalities. And I was a little surprised when, I think, the first one was Plzeň and Mr. Deputy Náhlík, who was in charge of traffic, so they said that they noticed that there was this thing that could bring these complications. And I think it is only, and I mention it to make sure that we are aware of the quality of the laws in the Czech Republic, especially as regards the tax package, and how they are consulted with those involved. Because to find out this at the moment when the inter-ministerial commentary procedure is over, the moment that the legislation travels from government to the House, and at that moment those subjects respond, then we do things like we did today in the 90s, that after two years we resolve the mistakes that we make here as ministries and we, as legislators, then commit. This is just something we should forgive ourselves for. And it is a question of the quality of the work of officials in individual departments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague Ferjenčík. And Mrs. Pastuchová cancels her apology, so her apology is cancelled and will continue to be here. Mr. Ferjenčík. My colleague Volný is reporting from the scene. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So, like my colleague Dolejš, my esteemed colleagues, I must begin by mentioning the rather unfortunate procedure that the government has chosen to enforce this law, when, first, it was not possible to discuss it until the holidays. Unfortunately, the House had rather dissolved and left for the holidays than deal with the laws. We acted very loudly against this, unfortunately, most of the House preferred the leave, which today turns out to be a very wrong decision. Because adopting tax laws that threaten to fail by the end of the year is an extremely bad procedure. And I would appeal very much to the Minister to try to make sure that next year, when the tax package is back in the programme, we will again implement the European directives, once again the legislation will evolve in some way, so that we can actually try to make the deadline, so that perhaps the first reading can be done before the holidays, and there is room to tune up the amendments with the ministries, and so that we do not actually know that today we do not actually know whether the law will be approved in time. Similarly, the government is pushing the power of the third and fourth EET wave, where there was a completely logical opposition to the opposition, which wanted to mention its arguments against the third and fourth EET wave, and by pushing the EET, which is less important from the economy's point of view than this law, so unfortunately there has again been a delay in this matter. I think we needed some parliamentary cooperation here. And now, in a matter of fact, to the law. First of all, I see the problem in this, but of course it's probably not solvable at the moment, just a general sigh that we're fighting tax havens here, but we're not fighting tax havens within the EU. That's just for the record. And then a few very specific notes about the law. I think it is appropriate to take a closer look at the implementation of the GAAR rule, the General Against Abuse Rule, which we implement extremely widely in the Czech version. While, according to the European directive, we are ordered to implement it in relation to corporate tax, where, in my opinion, it is absolutely appropriate, because there it is clear that if the corporation is doing some operations for tax savings only, then the tax rules can violate it, so in the Czech implementation, we apply it as a general rule in the tax system. And it seems extremely dangerous to me. [[16.40 hours]] Let me give you a specific example and I would very much welcome the Ministry of Finance's response, as they perceive it. Today, businessmen can use spending flats completely legally, and the authorities do not in any way examine whether they use the flats to reduce bureaucracy or to reduce the tax base. And the law is designed that way, I think it works well and there's no problem. However, if we applied the extensive GAAR rule, and unfortunately historically tax administration applied certain rules very extensively in the matter of hedging orders, so there are warning signals from the past about the fact that some agile official, such as the famous wedding receipts case, that some agile official would start to deal with it, so if the Financial Administration officials began to prosecute businessmen who used flat-rate tax primarily to reduce their taxes and not to reduce bureaucracy, they might find support in the GAAR tax rules in my opinion. I see here a very risky general rule, which, moreover, has no support in European legislation. European legislation wants to apply to corporate tax. So that's the first circuit I'd ask for a reaction. I also see a very controversial issue of extending the use of customs code documents in two areas. One in the game room control area. I admit that I can still imagine there's a reason for it, I can imagine an employee of a state who's going to control a gambling room, and where he prefers to use a cover document for security reasons. However, in the area of routine EET control, this seems to me to be a very extensive measure and I really do not understand it. In fact, the tax administration here claims that people who are going to check the restaurant are at risk of life or health, and they want cover papers so that the owner of the restaurant can't track them down. I absolutely don't understand... I'll wait until the Secretary of State has some room... [[The secretary is speaking at the rapporteur's desk.]] So, cover documents for a routine check of the EET's selection. For me, this is an incomprehensible provision. And if it's really a problem that it happens that officials are at risk of health when they control the EET, then I guess we have to solve the problem a little differently than we do with cover documents. Then there are the problematic provisions on VAT for Czech Radio and Czech Television, which we will certainly be focusing on in detail at second reading. And from my point of view, I would still ask the Ministry of Finance to justify exempting financial undertakings from the provisions on excessive borrowing costs. To put it simply, there are stricter rules for lending between businesses and the way in which these measures transfer profits which, however, do not apply to the financial sector in the Czech implementation, which may have a relevant justification, and at the same time may be promoted. So I would like to ask the Ministry of Finance whether these paragraphs really benefit the Czech Republic, given that we are a country that has the banking sector to a large extent under the control of foreign mothers who can use these methods to optimize the capital charge. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u25	I thank Mr Ferjenčík and this was the last one entered into the debate. I see the application from the President of the ODS Club and my colleague Volný has applied before, but since the President has priority rights - he does not, well. In that case, my colleague Volný. And before the counter comes, I apologize to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Lukáš Peksa for personal reasons from 17.15. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to do so and I propose that we vote on a shortening of the time between first and second reading from 60 days to 30 days. I'll explain. This material is part of the implementation material, but I don't want to argue that. But it is a bill that we have at our disposal in the Chamber of Deputies for at least three months. Two months ago, we did subcommittees, taxes, customs and lottery, where we invited ministerial staff, explained the entire material to us in detail, described it. So I think there was enough time to think about it, to prepare any amendments. We see here that the county union has already prepared something like this, working on it. And I would also like to thank a colleague of the pirát, the speaker who said that this material needs to be approved as soon as possible. That's why I'm begging you very much to support the reduction to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u27	Thank you. Mr Juránek's point of view. The President of the ODS and the rapporteur shall then have priority rights. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u28	Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I would like to say that in a methodical way, this matter, which concerns the part that should be adjourned, cannot be resolved. The amount, and I was trying to talk about the fact that it can be calculated and that it has a major impact on the regions in particular, I want to point out that it will have a very significant impact on the budgets of the regions. I don't want to say the amount, I'll tell the secretary in person so she can compare it to the officials. But it means a very significant impact on the budgets of all regions and the capital city of Prague quite clearly. And especially for large cities, it has the same impact as for regions, which means cities that are over 100,000 inhabitants, certainly. I would very much like the debate to consider the methodological guidelines to consider these things, but to actually calculate the impact on the budgets of the regions and municipalities at the very beginning. I am convinced that if there is no other way, it will then have to be dealt with by budgeting taxes for the budget of 2020, because the amount is so large that it is not regions or big cities. Sorry, some big cities would be able to cover it, but it could cover, like, two, three counties tops. That means, here I just want to say that this is a very serious matter, it has a very serious impact on the budgets of the regions and the budgets of the cities. And so I ask that proper attention be paid to this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u29	I thank Mr Juránek for his time on the point of fact. Now with priority rights chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. The rapporteur shall also be prepared with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u30	Thank you for the floor. So first comment on the proposal to shorten the deadline. [[Short silence for noise in the hall.]] I want to say that today we have 23rd October, we started first reading and it is not a mistake of the opposition that we are starting to discuss the tax package on 23rd October when the efficiency is due to be from 1 January. How many other points did you place at the last meeting? We could have discussed this during the holidays. So don't try to corner us now with the fact that there's no time. Yes, there is no time, but thanks to the Government's procedure in the Chamber of Deputies. We could have had our first reading a long time ago. It is fair to say that there are things that we, too, are prepared to support, so we will not propose rejection or return to the process. However, if we want to talk about the case in a solid way, I don't know, it's about 800 pages of material, 30 days of which, at least this week, the House starts next week, we're going to act in a variable week, so how much time do we really get to discuss it? A played implementation song, I really don't think it's worth spending time with. We were here a few weeks ago discussing a parliamentary proposal to reduce the VAT rate in public transport. At the time, the Minister was against it and with it government MPs, with it being unsystematic. So let's take the Minister's word for it and see how systemically the VAT reduction in our government is being dealt with. Who would expect a reduction in VAT rates under the tax package would be disappointed. We reduce VAT not in paragraph 22, House printing 206, but in point 23, registration of sales. And that's what the government calls a system solution. So public transport, reducing VAT is non-systemic. As Mr Volný said, such a neoplasm - a union of regions you said a moment ago? The Lands Union. So here we have the president of the regional union, if you were thinking of the Regional Association, probably so, they were against me reading in the last few weeks how some regions have to compete with their carriers because they don't have the resources to cover drivers' wages. And I just want to remind you that the government, not individual regions, and those who order it, has decided to increase drivers' salaries. But so be it. But reducing the VAT rate to cut flowers, I have nothing against cut flowers, I buy them quite often, it is at the point of EET and not within the tax package. [[16.50 hours]] I would like to have a debate with the Minister not about what is inside the package, because the problem of contribution organisations and taxation here has certainly been discussed, the Minister said that it will not be in the law in the end, so it is not worth constantly abstaining, but let us talk about what is not in the tax package. There's no tax cuts in the tax package, we're not gonna find that. There is no abolition of the supergross wage, which was the point of the Yes electoral programme and also of the ODS electoral programme. At least on this point, we had the same electoral programs. And I've done my part to study the economic part of your electoral program. In the original proposal it was, it fell under the commentary procedure. Madam Secretary has told us that this is because there is no political will. We have to say who doesn't have the political will. If the YES movement and we had it, it was already the majority political will in the Chamber of Deputies, and the super-gross wage would certainly be abolished. If the Social Democrats or the Communists don't have it, that's possible. But the first question, Madam Secretary: where is there no political will to abolish a super-gross wage? It is true that we differ in what to do with gross wage taxes. We propose reducing these taxes so that citizens, employees, because it is a tax on dependent activities, decide for themselves what they will do with the money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u31	I understand, Mr. Chairman. I ask the House for peace! If you're having a different discussion than the question of taxes, please be in the foyer. And I'm asking my colleagues from all the clubs, including the ODS chairman's club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u32	Right. I want to update the package of amendments. We will use this proposal to propose a real tax reduction. I'm sure we'll suggest we cancel the super-gross wage. It will show who has or has no political will. If she doesn't have the secretary and her movement, I understand. This then has no chance of passing through the Chamber of Deputies, but then you are violating your own electoral agenda, which, of course, can happen. We will also propose to maintain the rate of 15%, but from gross wages. We differ in estimates of the impact on the state budget, but the differences aren't so dramatic that I'm here for a long time with the Minister if it's 45, 55 or 60 billion. In order - 70 it's no way. It just doesn't work mathematically at all. I'd like to see the math model come out of this 70, which I would really like to see when we're lowering the rate by about 25 percent. It just doesn't work out, even if there's some progression. How many times have I heard from the representatives of the YES movement, many times how the ODS increased taxes and how wrong it was and how wrong it was. And we've said yes many times, and today we're judging it as a mistake. But the same people who criticize us for it keep the higher rates and do nothing about it. I've heard from the absent Prime Minister about 30 times since we raised our taxes. We picked them up, and now that we want to cut them down, you like it, and you want to keep taxes as high as they are today. Then you have to choose. Either the increase was wrong, and then lower it with us, or it was good, so don't criticize us for the increase. Both together are really funny. We will definitely propose the abolition of three VAT rates. As former Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, I think I heard the Minister, too, if I'm wrong, I'm sorry, and she will definitely fix it, saying that two VAT rates are ideal for them. And I agree with that. But it was the government of the YES and CSSD movement that introduced the third rate. When you find the Steno records from that time, I think there were three or four items, then the Minister of Finance was suffocating that these were the first and last items that would be in the second reduced VAT rate. Of course, we have estimated very correctly that, at the moment when such an option is so, various interest groups legitimately - I emphasise legitimately - demand that a second reduced VAT rate be applied to their products or services. At the next point, I think we have five items that are expanding the list that should never have spread, as former finance minister Andrej Babiš said. So let's use the time, not the 30 days, but 60 days to have fun. Why not go back to the ideal state of two rates, if that's what the Prime Minister and the Treasury Secretary want? The strongest opposition club says it's good. What's stopping us from having fun, going back to two rates and having a rational debate about the level of those rates? We have an idea, which may differ from the government's idea, and we can go back to that in the debate. So we're definitely gonna propose it. We propose a return to two VAT rates. Then the debate, which item is to be at the second reduced rate and which is not. It's very hard to justify exceptions than that anyone who likes gets the exception, and who doesn't, is unlucky, and it's called a nonsystemic step. If we had two rates, it's systemic. Where the directive allows us to apply a reduced rate, we can use it. [[There's still a lot of noise and bad hearing in the room!]] What is missing there is a debate over another existence of taxes that have an extremely low yield per year. Road tax for passenger motor vehicles - see what the agenda is, how much paperwork is with it and how low the total annual tax revenue is. Let's talk about whether it's effective, whether it's better to cancel this tax altogether. Now there have been municipal elections, and especially in large cities many, perhaps all the candidate parties have come up with a discovery: we have to deal with housing, our housing prices are flying up. By having almost all the parties in the program, it is evident that this is clearly a problem that is particularly troubled by large cities. But the property acquisition tax is costing housing. We proposed a cancellation, and the government's answer was: we can't cancel the tax, how we'd deal with it if we had such a state budget deficit, this year it looks like some 12, 13 billion, if that's the way I can estimate it from the numbers I've seen. [[The Minister speaks to the speaker from the rapporteur's table.]] Yes, 12 or 13. I don't have the complete numbers yet, Madam Secretary has more up-to-date information. This is a thing that can be cancelled very quickly and which can really make it cheaper to buy your own housing. This doesn't apply to VAT that if we lower the rate, the price stays the same. I think we are so experienced that we know that if we lower the VAT rate, it will not be reflected in the price for the end user, but it will be reflected in the profit of the company offering the service or product. It's perfectly logical. We also said that at the time when we proposed some reduction in VAT, that we cannot expect a reduction in the final price. If I were to evaluate a proposal that really has several hundred pages, I would consider it a wasted opportunity to have a debate on the overall reduction of the tax burden on our citizens and our companies. Then I found one more point in the electoral programme, or in the economic part of the ANO electoral programme, which was very similar to what we had in our economic part of the electoral programme, and which was even bolder. We proposed to reduce by 2 percentage points the social security that the employer pays for its employees. If you look at the ANO electoral programme, you will find there that the ANO will propose a reduction of 2 to 5 percentage points according to the evolution of the economy, so that I can say the whole sentence. What must the development of the economy, Madam Secretary, be to at least go to the bottom of your electoral promise of 2%? The economy is growing regularly, if we look at the forecasts for next year, and we will certainly discuss it tomorrow within the state budget, so there is no dramatic cooling. The forecast used by the Ministry of Finance is realistic, on which we agreed on a budget committee. So it was just a shot, such a false promise, or when, according to the YES movement, will economic circumstances and economic developments be appropriate to reduce the cost of work? [[17,00 hours]] If you're talking to an employer today, they're obviously worried about a lack of labour, but at the same time they're worried about the overall increase in wage or personal costs, as we're going to take it. If we relieve the social security paid by the employer, there is room for further wage increases for employees without increasing the company's total costs. But the government only cares about civil servants, and it always counts how much it costs us, we'll talk about it tomorrow. But then compare it to the projected decline in income from tax cuts on dependent activities, how much we actually cost to raise the salaries of civil servants. And let's look at two, three years from now, compare the numbers from 2016, 2017, 2017, 2018, 2019 and see that huge cost increase for about 10 or 12, 13 - but I want your government not to say that we did it wrong, but we can start from 2010, or where we want to start with the argument that we can't lower those taxes. Instead of taking care of all the employees, you chose a group of employees working for the public sector. At the same time, our tax reduction measures apply to all, of course also to public sector employees. If we have an anomaly - I consider it an anomaly, perhaps the Minister does not - that the average salary in the public sphere is higher than the average salary in the private sector, I do not consider it healthy. I really don't consider it a healthy phenomenon. And it is precisely the reduction in the tax on dependent activities that could slowly reverse the trend and return to normal economic reality. So these are the main reservations to this bill. And what are the reservations about what the proposal doesn't contain? If we talk about taxation - I don't know exactly what it's called - warm tobacco? Warm cigarettes? So we can certainly agree on that, but that is basically a detail that will slightly improve the revenue of the state budget, it will be fair given the other products that are made of cigarettes or tobacco. But if this should be the only effect of the tax package that has 800 pages, then the result is really very weak. Thank you for any answers, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u33	Thank you. We have yet to hear from Mr Skopeček with a factual point of view. However, before I give him my word, I'll read some apologies. Minister and Member Antonín Staněk apologizes to us for today's meeting from 16.45 until the end of the day for health reasons, Minister Tomáš Petříček apologizes to us from 18:00 to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Jaroslav Kytýr apologises to us from 18:30 until the end of the day for working reasons. And now please - However, factual remarks take precedence over the speech in the debate, so please Mr Skopeček, then Mr Klaus is on the verdict. [[Mr. Dolejš reminds me that he was next.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u34	Thank you. I didn't hear the whole speech of the president of our club, but the important thing was that the law doesn't contain the main thing, on the basis of which the abolition of the supergross wage was designed. I have heard in the past the Minister's statement that it is not there because the government may not have had confidence and that it did not seem legitimate to bring such forceful tax changes before the Chamber of Deputies. However, I would like to ask the Minister - and I am sorry if anyone has already asked her, he will certainly answer - when, therefore, he plans to present to the Chamber of Deputies the abolition of the supergross wage, when he plans to really reduce taxes and simplify the tax environment, because that is not what this law is about. It is the year after the elections and the tax environment is as complex as it was, and so far the citizens have not received a reduction in the tax burden. So I'd like to ask you, since you already have the legitimacy, when we can wait to cut our taxes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u35	I thank you for your time, and now I am asking Mr Klaus to make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u36	I will follow up on this subject with the previous speaker, our Member Stanjura, who has very professionally and healthyly evaluated it. I'll take it easy. I promised voters before the election, and I even had such graphics that I would never support any law that increases taxes, and at the same time I would support all the laws that will reduce taxes. So if there are more simple people like me here, then I must say that this law does not reduce taxes and, on the contrary, introduces a new tax on electronic cigarettes. So that's why I'm not supporting him. Well, I'm sorry for the simple consideration, but I'm set like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u37	Thank you. I would like to point out that factual remarks are intended to respond to the ongoing debate. And now, please, Mr Dolejš, for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u38	Thank you for the floor. To a certain extent, I understand the withdrawal of my colleagues from the ODS faction that they will take every opportunity to present their electoral agenda. On the other hand, I would like to point out that this government press has been processed, and there is already the dust of oblivion lying on it, perhaps on this fact, a government in demise, that this government, which was in demise, did not want to go into any major tax interventions anymore because it is in demise. Now I don't want to comment on the tax statements, where we don't understand each other much. But what is true is the fact that this press is implementing and the Czech added value is, in fact, more technical. So maybe someone will take it as a challenge to present different tax philosophies here. We, on the left, could also cause something on the subject of disturbing super gross, yes, but not as a way to equal taxation, that we could simplify VAT in the style of our proposals presented here, or that we should turn again to tax progress. All that would be possible. The question is whether this is the right time when we said at the beginning that this press was actually being pushed and pushed away. And I don't know if the debate would be part of the budget tomorrow, or maybe colleagues are saving something for the press where the EET will be reopened, that's undoubtedly possible. But especially this printing has a comma to be discussed relatively easily. This press has no significant budgetary implications. And by the way, the other press, where the budgetary implications are certain, is certainly worthy of attention, and tomorrow it may be discussed that this law cannot therefore be discussed, and therefore it is not even possible to base it on the state budget, where certain considerations on the impact of the VAT or EET tariff interventions lead to revenue from the EET. It really doesn't belong here. For this reason, I would ask, first of all, in the role of rapporteur, I think it was my colleague, Kovářová, or who it was, who suggested a return to the work. If we have heard here that the conflicting clause, the panic causing the interpretation of the definition of the subsidy to the price, if it is released, then there is a point to insist on this proposal. I am simply asking because then in the finals we will have to proceed with the vote. And then, of course, the term legisvacanční, which is there, will be dropped for us until 2021. If it falls out, it's just gonna be settled later and calm. My second comment points to the proposed shortening. If the points at issue fall out and if we do not interfere with the issue of so-called. a tax package which is not de facto a government tax package, but is the solution to certain problems that the government wanted to address in the spring of this year, so I think it is not at the expense of the quality of the discussion of the press. And if there are such techniques as that of the excise period, where there are labels or stamps, until February 2019, if I remember it well, it remains real, because we are able to do this by sending it today within 30 days, which is not a drama, we will send it a little further in the debate. [[17.10 hours]] One last point, again with the circle, is that we are not dealing with some kind of political assessment of the tax philosophy. Of course, those of you who have talked about it may even cause an interesting debate. I also think that some tax evasions are, in some ways, unnecessarily little worth of attention, that, for example, the government in its position, when negotiating some things, could have been more daring when it comes to taxation. digital companies, these are all those googles, etc., where she went unnecessarily to that Irish basically very tolerant position, and I think that here we could have been bolder, and a whole range of other and other topics. But let's save this debate for, say, a better opportunity. So I personally prefer to intercede so that this press can be properly discussed and closed, and I do not think that the 30-day period immediately threatens it, especially if we have heard the public promise that the misunderstanding will be resolved by crossing out, that some things will be said to be dealt with and that they are being pre-negotiated, whether it is tobacco or public media. So I think we can do it in this respect, and if we want to play a little bit more on time here, maybe the press will be more appropriate for that, which will come next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u39	I thank you, and now, with a factual remark, again, Mr Skopeček. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u40	I would like to respond to the speaker through the President. He defends the Minister that it is indeed a technical standard. The government had no confidence. Let us discuss tax philosophy on another occasion. But on the other hand, when we realize that the government has done much more important things without confidence, whether in the personnel field, if I am not mistaken, the government has approved the student fare and discounted fare for seniors, it cannot be used to argue that it is a government without trust only when it does not want to lower its taxes, but for anything else, as for increasing civil servants, for great personal changes, the government did not mind the distrust at all. So let's be fair and not say, let's not blame the opposition for asking about important tax matters. We have a year after the election, the tax system is not simplifying, the tax burden is not decreasing, and the fiction that it is because we had a government here without trust, they cannot pay because even at that time, even in that period, the government was making relatively strong and important changes, and it didn't bother her at all that she doesn't have confidence!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u41	Thank you for the time being, and at this point, Mr Ferjenčík is still reporting for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask the Minister if she could still respond in the debate so that, if there is anything else I can ask. However, I wanted to speak on the matter of the deadline. I looked up the House's schedule for this, and if we cut the deadline to 30 days, the next meeting of the House, which the law can discuss, is on December 3 to 9, where the second reading would be, and then on December 17 to 23, theoretically it could be 3rd reading, where the law still goes to the Senate. I confess that I have quite a doubt that the Senate will favor this law. So I'm not quite sure the 30-day deadline is working it out. And at a time when the three meetings of the Chamber of Deputies are three of those 30 days, and we really want to resolve some of the issues there, and during that meeting of the plenary, it is quite difficult to deal with these negotiations, so I apologize, but for these reasons we will not support the proposal, because it would not, in our view, really lead to approval by the end of the year. And next time, I ask that you really discuss this on time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u43	Thank you. The Minister will still respond in the debate. Please. And then my colleague Benda comes out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I assume that the debate will still be conducted in detail both in the budget committee and in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, but at least at a speed. Mr Ferjenčík, the GAAR rule - only very briefly, I am, of course, prepared to explain and defend this in detail - that is, in essence, a ban on abuse of the law. And the ban on abuse of law in our country generally applies as a principle that is imported by domestic courts. This means that the principle of abuse is already being applied. This means that the inclusion of the GAAR rule, which is actually the implementing rule, that is, we are obliged to implement it, so it is now included in the tax code and is the only possible logical consequence. Of course, I'm not having a debate here, so we'd spend hours here wondering if an expense flat-rate would be an abuse of law. I've been in the Financial Administration for 25 years, and I can't imagine it. It's just really beyond my understanding. But at this point, I want to say that this is a rule that is already being implemented today. We have a number of constant case-law of the Supreme Administrative Court and it is discussed at the expert seminar at the Supreme Administrative Court, which was held and where this rule of GAAR and its inclusion in the tax order was very qualified expert debate, where representatives of the courts, judges, were representatives of the Chamber of Tax Advisors, where representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration were. As far as cover documents are concerned, this is a really big problem in practice, because if, for example, it is now controlled within EET accommodations, these officials are using their own personal documents and it is simply not okay. Otherwise, it is a procedure that is commonly used, it is nothing new, the Czech Trade Inspection. Now I'm so sorry that Chairman Stanjura isn't here. I'll try to respond to the things that have fallen here. We're starting to discuss the state budget tomorrow. It is quite clear to me that Mr Skopeček or Stanjura or others will certainly come forward, or all of them, and will particularly highlight the fact that we have submitted, or I have tabled a draft State Budget Act with a 40-billion-dollar deficit, i.e. a deficit of 0,7 % of GDP. We're gonna keep this debate for tomorrow and we're gonna talk about the costs and we're gonna talk about what's wrong with the opposition's budget. But I'm simply calculating: Cancellation of the supergross wage and maintenance of the current tax zone - 70 billion. according to current prices, also in the future calculated by the analytical team of the Ministry of Finance. Even if it's 50, as you say, we call it 70, it's a huge amount. Cancellation of acquisition tax - 13 billion. Cancellation of road tax - 6.5 billion. But the state budget should be balanced in the plan. He will be. This year will definitely be and will be next year. So it's kind of hard for me to defend something that seems at least incorrect to me. So I'm not going to repeat what you said here, Mr. MP Skopečka. Yes, it was. We were a government without trust, you reminded us of it today and every day, so it was hard to come up with this proposal to cancel a super gross wage. I put it in the package, but basically you would offer us political support, yes, but the political support of your proposal and it does not match ours. We want a real tax reduction in connection with the abolition of the supergross wage, that is, as we have proposed in the package, as has been said, and we have that in the government statement, we are aware of it and, of course, we are counting on it. Otherwise, tax cuts. The last government cut taxes, I'll take the exact table to the budget committee next time, I don't have it here today, but it cut taxes by more than 30 billion. That's exactly what I'm done with! Now we're planning a tax reduction, that amount is less than 3.4 billion, maybe 3.3 billion. Yes, it is part of the EET Act, which is not contrary to the legislative rules of the government, and it is to motivate entrepreneurs belonging to the third and fourth waves, as we motivated those who belonged to the first wave by reducing VAT on food services. So we continue to reduce taxes. And we can afford it precisely because we choose them better and more effectively because of the measures that we have implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u45	Thank you, too. Your performance brought up a number of factual remarks. Mr Ferjenčík is the first to be here, so please Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Jurečka will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u46	Thank you for the floor. Thus, the GAAR rule in the Czech implementation states: "The tax administration does not take into account the legal behaviour and other facts relevant to tax management, whose main purpose is to obtain a tax advantage contrary to the purpose and purpose of tax legislation. " I understand that - indeed, it is already being judged - that the ban on abuse of law applies in our country. The more I don't actually understand why this is put into this general regulation in this formulation. And my problem is with the formula. Because it says that when someone gains a tax advantage contrary to the purpose and purpose of the regulation, and at the same time, for example, the Ministry of Finance says that they do not support an increase in spending flats to two million because the purpose of the regulation is to reduce bureaucracy - and you said so, Madam Secretary - and that when it is introduced without any impact on VAT, this leads to a reduction in taxes against the purpose of the regulation, it logically follows that some agile tax administration official can explain it in a way that it affects the businessmen. Because the moment someone has half a million revenue and 20,000 expenses, and we have some businessmen in some professions, they're just gonna say that they're using flats just to cut their taxes, so that's the rule that applies to them. And I'm just not quite sure that someone will think of that when your officials go around the wedding and ask them if they got the receipt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u47	Thank you and please, with Mr Jurečka's factual comment, Mr Skopeček will be prepared. And I'd like to ask for more peace in the room. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u48	Thank you. I appreciate that, Madam Secretary, you have responded to a lot of the things that have been mentioned here in the debate. However, there was an important sentence here, which always attracts quite a lot of attention from the Minister of Finance. And if you're sure we're going to a balanced budget this year, that's great. But if we're in a situation where we're planning next year's budget, which will be tomorrow, so if this process starts at the level of the Chamber of Deputies and it says here that next year, you de facto expect a balanced budget, then it would be fair to say, "Let's get this budget straightened out for next year." Let's not play this marketing game here, we'll create expectations at a lower level and then magically succeed. And then some slap each other on the shoulders, how amazing it is that it has succeeded. And it would also be fair to say those things then at other moments. When we are discussing the EET here and talking about it, and it is justified that we need to introduce the third and fourth waves because of higher tax collection, because we need to cover the deficit from the state budget here, we need to invest in many godly areas. OK, why not? But then let's not say that the tax collection - sometimes we can tell that it's not going well, then it's useful to say that we're in danger of deficits, and then eventually it's said that we're not in danger of deficit. This simply is not entirely fair to the citizens of this state or to entrepreneurs and all those who pay taxes and who contribute to the financing of our state and state budget. I think this kind of approach, where the difference can then make up 45, 50, 60 billion of the difference in what is planned and in what is the result, we experienced it here sometime in 2014 and we thought we didn't want to go that way anymore. So I would argue that even these things could be clarified here and especially if the work could be done really well. And if these calculations show that the budget can be balanced, then at the end of this year, let us approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u49	I now ask Mr Skopeček to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u50	I'll say something similar to the previous speaker. But we've come to an absolutely incredible situation. We learned today that tomorrow we're starting to discuss the draft state budget. We know that the state budget proposal will be with a deficit of less CZK 40 billion, but the day before we start discussing the budget, the finance secretary here is already advertising that it will be evenly balanced next year. So we know a day in advance that tomorrow the government will come here with a false, foul budget that doesn't match reality, because today the secretary has already told us that no 40-billion-dollar deficit is going to be settled at the end of the year. So why are we meeting here tomorrow, dear colleagues, now that we've learned here that we're going to be discussing a false, foul budget? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u51	Thank you. And now, please, Mr Munzar, with a point of fact. I don't have any more factual remarks at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u52	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to follow up on Mr Jurečka and Mr Skopeček through you. It really criticizes us from incorrectness and say here: we are presenting you with a deficit budget because it will still be balanced - that is also not a very correct statement, Madam Secretary. However, we blame this government, since we have already opened the debate, one thing, or the last governments in recent years. And that it narrowed the management of the state budget to a simple one - it gave and focuses only on the revenue side of the budget, not on the expenditure side. That's where it's going at a big pace. Once again, we have read how many thousands of new civil servants are going to accept this state. Firstly, it cannibalize the labour market for private businesses, and secondly, it will not always be so good. It won't always be economic growth and economic boom. And who's gonna pay for that? And in response to the rapporteur by your means, who says here: it is just a technical amendment. So when else do we talk about taxes, about stabilizing the business environment, so that it is really firm and stable in the future, so that we can keep up with any economic recession or economic stagnation, any other time than with taxes? The tax package is an opportunity for us to discuss these matters, to assess what would be the best way for our entrepreneurs. And when we see all those studies that involve, for example, bureaucracy, we see that bureaucracy is growing for entrepreneurs in our Czech state. At the same time, as I say, the government is only trying to focus on tax revenues, so it considers the business sphere a little bit like a milk cow for the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u53	Thank you, too. At this point, I would therefore like to ask Mr Benda, who has applied for a debate from the point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u54	Madam Secretary, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I rarely speak up to taxes, and I must say that today I am surprised by the appearance of the Minister, who will tell us that tomorrow he is presenting a budget that she does not believe herself. That seemed strange to me. But I wanted to ask you a favor. Let's not make a fool of ourselves and the public. Let us not pretend that this bill can be approved by the end of the year. That's so unfair! We have to say, the Treasury must say, this House must say when it will start to apply. If it's the half of next year that can start to pay in the middle of next year, which can start to pay some other time. But the fact that it doesn't start to pay from 1. 1. 2019, it must be obvious to anyone who opens at least a calendar. Today is October 23rd. Even if we cut the deadline to the maximum, which is able to vote for the government majority, we are in November 23rd, when this bill can begin to be discussed first. November 23rd is Friday, then we have a parliamentary week. This means that the first week of the House begins on 4 December. Even if everything goes more quickly, it is not possible for us to discuss the tax rules in the second half of December. And we're sending him to the Senate. And do we really think that the Senate, for the sake of beautiful eyes, will the Minister be sitting between the holidays to approve the tax system in ten days? [[17.30 hours]] Let's stop making fun of each other here. Let's say we don't cut short the deadline. It's completely unnecessary, because even with a reduced deadline, we can't make it. And let's say honestly: this tax policy, the tax package, will be approved first by the end of January, mid-February, if the Senate returns it to us, but it will not be by the end of this year. It's completely unthinkable, and I think it's unfair to say something like that to the public. And I'd like to ask Mr. Volný if he doesn't want his proposal, which only raises expectations... [[Ambassador Faltynek from the bench: No.]] The chairman of the club, don't tell him what Mr. Volný wants. [[with laughter]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u55	Please do not contact the other Members directly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u56	Thank you, sorry, sorry. Through Mr President, I apologize for... Let's not try, let's not try to overcome reality. It just can't be really done by the end of the year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u57	Thank you, too. Before I invite another speaker, we have a note from Mr Jan Bartošek, who apologizes today from 17.30 on account of negotiations in the region. And now, please, with a factual remark from Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u58	Colleagues, colleagues, I will respond to my previous speaker. I can agree with him. I don't have to agree with him. Of course, I also did these numbers, and it was also clear to me that it would be very difficult to prosecute by the end of the year. However, I think the sooner this is approved, the better for taxpayers and in relation to the EU. That's why I'm gonna insist on shortening it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u59	Thank you, too. At this point, we have not yet made any factual comments. This is Mr. Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u60	I am so sorry, Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary. I'll respond to my previous speaker. If we know it's impossible to make it, we have to say now the measures that will lead to what can start to apply from the current month, what can start to apply from 1 March, what must start to apply from 1 June, what must start to apply only at the beginning of the next year. We've always had it that way in taxes. At least I suspect so much about taxes that I know they just can't enter February 22nd, as the Senate's deadlines are about to come out. And I think it would be fair to say today, not to pretend, we can make it. And then all of a sudden, we start figuring out how we're going to delay efficiency?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u61	Thank you. So at this point, I do not have any more factual remarks or anybody reporting to me from the point of view of the debate, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Not interested. In that case, we will now vote on the proposals. I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. A proposal was tabled to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. I'm not registering a request... and, uh, an application for a check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you. Please log in with your cards again. And when the number of Members is settled, we will begin voting on the re-evaluation of the proposal. [[He's waiting a while.]] There, there are still more and more Members. It seems that... the number of Members we have applied for has stabilized. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the return. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 39 vote, 165 Members and Members were enrolled, for 35, against 92. The motion was denied. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I suppose that's not true. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who the budget committee is for the commandment. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 40, 167 Members and Members were enrolled, for 166, against no one, one abstained. The motion was accepted. I note that, therefore, we have ordered the proposed proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees? Mrs Černochová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u62	I am merely reporting that I am by the end of the day with priority rights for President Stanjuru. I propose a public administration committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u63	Thank you. And I'm asking if there's any other proposal before we vote? It's not like that. So I'm opening the vote. Who's in favour of assigning the next committee? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 41, 167 Members and Members were enrolled, for 76, against 58. The motion was not accepted. So I'm saying we didn't approve the next committee for assignment. And now we still have to deal with proposals to shorten or extend the deadline. It was proposed to shorten the deadline for 30 days to 30 days. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of shortening the deadline. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 42, 167 Members and Members were enrolled, for 89, against 35. The motion was accepted. So the deadline has been shortened. This has exhausted the discussion of this point. I thank both the appellant and the rapporteur, and I conclude this point. And now I have an informed Mrs Hyťhová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u64	Dear Members, I would just like to say that I voted in favour in vote 20, and it says here that I have abstained. I am not questioning the vote here, just for the tapestry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-23-ps2017-020-01-003-022.u65	Thank you, too. It's 17.37, so I'll open the next point, which is point No. 23 probably, which we interrupted about four times, last time on Friday 21. 9th at the 19th meeting. This is about
