ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u1	21. Proposal by Members of Marek Benda, Ondřej Veselý, Patrik Nacher, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Marian Bojko, Leo Luzar, Dominik Feri, Věra Kovářová and others for the Act amending Act No. 65/2017 Coll., on health protection against harmful effects of addictive substances, as amended by Act No. 183/2017 Coll. House printing 87/ - first reading Please, if it's okay. We received the Government's position as Parliamentary Press 87/1 and please refer to Mr Marek Benda as the appellant of the proposal. But I'll wait until it's a little quiet in the hall before I give the honourable Member the floor. [[Noise doesn't stop.]] Colleagues, please, take it easy. We're starting a new point. So I think we should hear the plaintiffs. So, please, Counselor, if that's enough for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u2	Well, thank you. Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Madam Secretary and Lord Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will try, at least briefly, to mention the amendment to the Health Protection Act against the harmful effects of addictive substances that have been distributed to you as House press number 87. It is a proposal from 86 Members who come up with the idea that it would be worth and rightly mitigate the effects of the so-called anti-smoking law, i.e. Act No. 65/2017 Coll., on health protection against harmful effects of addictive substances, as amended by Act 183/2017 Coll. You know that public debate is going on for quite a long time. Those who have been here in the last parliamentary term will surely remember how the bill was discussed here. As early as some mitigation in the form of separate areas reserved for smoking, the so-called smoking shops, was approved in mid-2016. The situation subsequently occurred that the bill had not been approved as a whole, the government had reunited, submitted a new text within a month, including all the parliamentary proposals that had been approved until then, with the exception of a single proposal by the criminal Member of Benda on dedicated areas for smoking. In this form, the draft law of the House pushed through the end of 2016 so that 29 May 2017 would become effective. All the negative features that we were worried about, which we warned about at the time of the hearing, that is, in particular, the fact that conflict between smokers and non-smokers has increased, and that there has been a situation where it is not possible, in particular, to have dedicated smoking facilities in the centers of large cities within the restaurant facility, so all smoking fellow citizens have been driven to the streets with all the negative effects it has to have, from either the need to place ashtrays on the streets or the indecent throwing away cigarette remains, which, of course, is a misdemeanor, which is really very difficult to fine and judge and punish, through the noise that occurs on the streets at that moment, until the harassment of the residents adjacent to the restaurants, where the smoke goes into those windows. Therefore, a group of Members has decided to propose a mitigation which is de facto in three or four points, respectively. But the fourth one concerns alcohol consumption, not smoking. [[12.40 hours]] The first point is the possibility, as originally approved in the draft law, which did not pass the Chamber of Deputies, to set up a separate space within the restaurant facility, to establish a separate space, which will be clearly defined and limited, will not be entered by persons under the age of 18, will not be entered by the attendant, but the person who is interested, whether to go there for a smoke or just go sit there in that pleasant tobacco smoke, if she had such a will, can bring herself a drink or food. And that's the kind of space that restaurants could set up. Of course, there will be no obligation. All the talk I hear in the paper today, where sometimes I feel that the Ministry of Health has nothing to do but run a campaign against the proposal of a group of Members who are trying to somehow bring the original proposal of the Ministry of Health into line with common sense, so all the remarks that say: It will be expensive for the innkeepers, they will have to... Nobody has to do anything, please. That's the basic principle. It's a liberalisation measure that anyone who wants to take advantage of will be able to take advantage of who doesn't want to use it, will not use it. Absolutely his right. The second thesis proposed in the amendment to Section 8 is that small plants that are licensed to serve alcohol and do not serve food up to 80 square meters could decide whether they are smoking or non-smoking. The point is that we are trying absolutely strictly to stick to the basic principles that the Ministry of Health originally came up with, which said: Our goal is to protect non-smokers from the effects of tobacco smoke and workers from the effects of tobacco smoke. It's not our goal to unlearn smokers or harass smokers. That was the basic thesis, and that's what we're trying to hold on to. That means, only in cases where people don't cook, where people don't go to eat, but they really go to sit there, the owner can decide whether the space is going to be smoking or not. I suppose no one with little children goes to the pub for beer. I suppose if he goes to the pub, he's out there for food. All such areas would be prohibited from entering persons under the age of 18 to protect children from the effects of tobacco smoke. We believe that this is of course very useful, because today what was the original intention of the Ministry of Health and what was repeatedly declared in the debates that took place here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, namely that we are trying to make sure that smokers are not a bad example to children, so the outcome of Act No. 65/2017 Coll., on health protection against harmful effects of addictive substances is exactly the opposite. Exactly the opposite. Smokers drove off on the street, regardless of whether it's near school, far away from school, regardless of whether the kids are moving or not. And all we've done is expose, yes, it's great here, smoking on the streets. We find that very unfortunate. That's why we wanted these changes. There is a certain refinement of what is the outer space of the restaurant because smoking in the gardens has been allowed so far and there have been several disputes about how many pergolas and other things are or are not limited space under the existing law. And the last amendment that we propose is to delete the provision that the owner or operator, or even the operator in the restaurant facility, must not pour an alcoholic beverage to a person who can reasonably be expected to carry out an activity that could eventually endanger the health or property of other persons. We consider this to be a completely nonsensical, discriminatory provision that, first, places on the restaurant operator, but not only the restaurant facility, of course, places requirements that the State is not entitled to transfer from one person to another. These are adults who have to decide for themselves how they will take action, if they are put into a state of mild drunkenness, considerable drunkenness, what they will then do. I don't think it's fair to ask who sells them such alcoholic beverages. Moreover, of course, this is extremely difficult to prove. And in today's time of all kinds of new technologies, even the old principle that we've experienced, well, when you see someone driving a car and putting their keys on the table, you don't pour him a beer, it makes no sense at all in a situation where half of the people then leave through one of the family members or through some called service, blue angels or something like that. After that, it really is absolutely indecisive for the one serving. So much for a brief explanation of the bill. At this point, I will not comment on the Government's decision to advise the Chamber of Deputies, nor on the other things that have been said in the media, at press conferences, on dozens of other briefings that have unleashed the combined forces of the Ministry of Health, parts of the health lobby and, say, some media. I'll save that for the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u3	Thank you, plaintiff. Please take the floor at the news station. And now, I ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Rostislav Vyzula, to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. They say good pigeons come back. I don't know, but in any case, I think the plaintiffs are interested in a different classic, and he says that a perfect man is like a hunchback to a camel. But this doesn't apply anymore. Allow me, then, a news report. A proposal has been made here. You have basically heard on all four points in detail what this proposal relates to. And I would like to address in the news report what the plaintiffs call common sense. We have a few things that don't really match that. First of all, I would like to say that... now the plaintiff has said that there has been no positive effect on the current ban on tobacco products. Let me argue with that one step at a time. In particular, as far as the explanatory report itself is concerned, it is said that there is a decline in business in crafts, restaurants and dining rooms or pubs. I have here a chart that is fresh, presented by the official state agency of the Czech Statistical Office, which compares food and hospitality sales for 2016 and 2017 and individual quarters. We know well that the law was passed on 30 May last year. So let's try to compare sales for 2016 and 2017 in the third quarter. The increase in 2017 by 6 billion. When we compare sales for the fourth quarter of 2016 and 2017, another increase in food and catering sales by 4.5 billion. I know that, of course, this is not all connected with the sale of alcohol, because it was said in the media that, on the contrary, the sale of beer fell, but it was probably increased consumption and sales of the other services, and these are the dishes that are needed. So the fact that there's been a decline in business obviously didn't happen. [[12.50 hours]] Another interesting idea, mentioned by my previous speaker, is the conflict of interest of smokers in front of the pub who are harassing the residents of the surrounding houses with their smoke and noise. We all know when we're walking past the restaurant and people, smokers standing outside, so some of those spaces are really, I have to admit, uncultural. It's true. Droppers and unsmoked cigarettes are lying on the ground. But why are the ashtrays missing, why aren't the spaces being modified? And let's imagine that we're going to create smoking shops that we're talking about here, which, among other things, I'm going to say, are very difficult from a technical point of view, because if we're going to prevent the penetration of smoke into other spaces, it's technically not that easy to create. These will be high investments that many will not be able to afford. But if we have the smoking shops, they'll be ventilated efficiently, and then this concentrated smoke goes where? He's not going anywhere 100, 200, 300, 500 meters into uninhabited spaces. He's going to go back to those inhabited spaces, and it's going to be concentrated. Those people who will be right under that ventilator would thank us. It's much more concentrated. A more concentrated incidence of carcinogenic substances. Another idea of the appellants is that the consumption of tobacco products has not decreased. It's not true. In all countries where there has been a legislative restriction on tobacco smoking, there has always been a decline in the consumption of tobacco products in that first year. And also with us, which is proven. It's documented, it's a decrease of 0.6 percent. You'll say it's not enough, but in absolute quantity, it's a huge number. And like I said, it's just documented from abroad. Furthermore, there is the idea of the appellants that there was no decline in juvenile smokers. We know well that it was argued that the law should protect the emergence of new smokers, which is the most sensitive population, are teenagers, especially women. We don't know exactly what the situation is, we really can't objectively figure out the decline in teen smoking right now, but we do know that there's been an increase in smokers, smoking women, by 35 percent over the last ten years, and we don't know if there's been a drop or not. That's too short a time, the law, I beg you, has been effective for less than 11 months, as we well know, started that May 30th. So we just can't objectively say on this matter. So I took a study, an epidemiological study from abroad, and I have here an abstract from the American magazine with a high impact comparing 57 studies between 1976 and 2005, which relate to the very legislative changes and possible reductions or increases in tobacco consumption. This study - because it is not easy, 57 studies put together, it is also not entirely easy to produce the correct analysis - but clearly points out that the median decline in tobacco consumption is between 3.4 and 6.3 %, which is quite a decent result. And it's 57 studios, please! You can't ignore that. Furthermore, there is an interesting idea of the appellants, and these are the rights of the employees in the pubs to be ensured by this arrangement. Well, it's not entirely true. Who's gonna clean up there? Who's gonna clean up there - the smokers themselves? I don't think so. But, okay, it's just a little bit of fun. I see the plaintiff's happy about it, so I did it on purpose so he wouldn't get bored. Another one the plaintiffs claim. They claim that their proposal is in line with constitutional order. Interesting. Interesting result, because we all know that on Wednesday 18. 4. the Constitutional Court's decision on a senator's proposal to limit the existing law has been published, and there is talk that the current, current standard is not contrary to constitutional order. Well, I'd rather leave that question to the lawyers, because I think the whole Constitutional Court press isn't exactly easy for the layman to read, and I thank you very much for having the opportunity to meet him, but I'd rather leave it to the lawyers. Another is the interesting idea of the appellants regarding economic arguments. The state is making money selling tobacco. It is known from official data that it is about 40 billion when it comes to tax. crowns a year. However, they forgot that 100 billion. Every year we spend on the treatment of smokers and their diseases associated with tobacco smoking, which are cardiovascular diseases, oncological diseases, asthma and pulmonary diseases as such, especially chronic obstructive diseases of bronchoplumonal. The ratio of 40 to 100, well, I know that the money for health care comes from another package, from health insurance, but the difference is still big here. Let's also take a little look at medicine. I know the designers didn't deal with the medical impact, it's more like the technical side of the smoking shops here, and then there's a lot of talk, and I think we're gonna talk about freedom of business and individual freedom. However, let us see if the ban from May 30 had any effect on the health of the people. Because what's this about, the ban? It concerns the Health Protection Act. It's about health, it's not about promoting business. That's health protection. [[13.00 hours]] As far as health concerns are concerned, of course, we can't have all the epidemiological data in such a short period of time. However, the Institute of Health Information and Statistics of the Czech Republic recently presented beautiful examples of this at the conference and selected those examples from the National Registry of Hospitalized, i.e. from a solid source, and evaluated hospitalization for acute heart attack diseases, angina pectoris, ischemic heart disease, asthma, and found that during the five months last July to November, when it compared the number of hospitalizations with 2016 and 2017, and after the implementation of the tobacco restriction law, more than 9,400 hospitalizations occurred only during this short five-month period. I know that, of course, the plaintiffs will argue that it is unclear whether it is due to smoking or stress or other genetic or innate matters. That's understandable. But since these diseases occur mostly in smokers, let's say it could be 50 per cent hospitalization or 40 per cent, and out of these 50 per cent, let's say that 10 or 15 were really life-saving. Isn't it worth it? So many lives to save? And as far as, of course, chronic diseases, such as oncological diseases, numerous oncological diseases, are concerned, it is not only lung cancer or oral cancer, but it is also the stomach, pancreas, colon, liver cancer, or renal bladder, etc. So, of course, we can't expect data there in 11 months. We can evaluate them in at least five parts, better in ten years, which is also shown by studies from abroad. And here's a study, a meta-analysis from British authors I have at my disposal. This results in a meta-analysis of 18 studies, where it significantly reports that acute myocardial infarction is significantly reduced. So once again, we can have some information, but after a really long time. So we'd have a little medicine. After all, I'm going to burden you with a little medicine. I, thanks to Professor Králíková, got a rather large volume of Cochranův's analysis of 77 studies from around the world, where all possible parameters are given, all possible parameters such as the risk of passive smoking, the increase or decrease of smokers, and then of course tobacco consumption. [[shows the written material in plenary]] It's not easy to analyze everyone again, and I'm not gonna tire you out with this meta-analysis, because it's bulky. It's not the detailed results of all the studies, it's just a semi-abstract standard. Anyway, it's always available to me, and I'll only introduce you to conclusions. This analysis dealt with 77 studies from 21 countries, 12 from Europe, such as Belgium, Italy, Spain, etc., then it was the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Argentina, Panama, Uruguay - I think they chose it very well in terms of the smoking habit. All these studies have led to this: smoking ban leads to reduced cardiovascular disease, lung disease, cancer, decrease of smoking pregnant women, reduces the risk for both passive and active smokers. Please, this is an extremely important matter. We are still talking here about the fact that it is only the protection of passive smoking, but in fact the bans in these countries have also led to the protection of smokers. Finally, they also lead to a decrease in mortality on tobacco - related diseases. So basically, the impact of some legislative changes on the ban on tobacco here is clearly obvious. The proposers also argue that the surrounding countries also have bans on tobacco smoking, but there are exceptions to that. Well, there is a question which countries would like to prefer here, but we do know that there is a total ban on smoking in 55 countries, until 2016, please, in 55 countries. There's more going on. For example, Spain is an interesting example. There were exceptions in Spain, there was no smoking ban effect, and therefore the exemptions were abolished. And then the effect became clear. Germany is often appointed. But Germany is made up of individual sovereign countries, in most of those countries there is a total ban on smoking in restaurants and bars. In some countries, however, that is true, there are exceptions, and that is so - for example, we were with the health committee in Germany, so we found that in some countries the country itself can determine, or not only the country, but also the municipality can determine whether or not there will be smoking facilities. So even Germany simply can't argue with that. Then there is the frequently mentioned question of Austria. We know very well that this was a matter that had been bowed down a lot here in the past period and had to apply a total ban in Austria this year, I think since May. However, the elections have changed and the right-wing free party's electoral agenda has banned this ban here. So it's probably not gonna happen. However, we can already see that there is very strong academic resistance in Austria, a very strong initiative. They have a petition that has over 500,000 signatures, so that the ban, a total ban on smoking, will be introduced after all. Let's see what happens. It's regrettable yet, but it's just politics. It's just politics. It's not about common sense. It's not common sense, it's politics. [[13.10 hours]] So nothing else about these countries, but I would like to, perhaps I will leave it now, but the issue of freedom of smokers and freedom of business is also interesting. And now, today I think, you've all put on the table a quick survey of the STEM Anti-Smoker Law, where less than 70 percent of respondents are leaning toward the fact that the current standard is okay, that they don't mind. But what's interesting is when you ask the smokers themselves or those casual smokers whether smoking means freedom, whether it is freedom, 70 percent, and those are the results, I think, from Charles University, 70 percent say no. They'd rather not smoke. But quitting smoking isn't easy. It's difficult. Whoever fell for it once knows it's not easy. We can talk about freedom as we have repeatedly mentioned freedom here, where it ends, where it begins, etc., but freedom cannot be imagined as chaos, anarchy. I say to myself, do I live in a free country and go on the highway at 200 kilometers? Well, I can, but with what responsibilities, with what implications? And do we want such effects to exist, to occur at all? No. So I just have to give in to the fact that the highway can only be driven at 130 kilometers, even if the car can withstand more. But as far as freedom is concerned, I think that the Constitutional Court's statement also mentions that the ban does not affect the freedom of smokers absolutely, because they still have the opportunity to smoke in many areas, for example. the gardens or other places. As far as freedom is concerned, if anyone doubts that the United States is not free, and yet there is a smoking ban where you don't smoke in the park, if it was what it was, and you get fined for it, you can take the poison, then it's just hard. Perhaps at this stage, from the perspective of the news report, I would conclude that I would like to draw your attention to what has been said here that the Government's position is negative on this press. I, as rapporteur, will propose rejection at first reading, because the current standard is worth it. It's worth the lives that are saved, and I don't think there's any reason to change it, although I'd change it in the opposite direction. But that's all for now, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u5	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur to take a seat at the rapporteur's table, we have some 18 minutes left until the end of the negotiations, I have 12 persons enrolled in the debate, but before that I have previously signed up with the priority right of Vice-President Okamura. This also opens up a general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on this proposal for a novel called. Anti-smoking law. I am a co-designer of this law, so, of course, the position is obvious from this point of view. I am fully convinced that this poorly written law needs to be adapted. I'm not saying cancel. We say adjust it to be balanced. Allow me, in this context, to thank Mr Marek Benda, who prepared the amendment, and many of us can therefore be co-designers of this law. We, as the SPD, were only one of the two parties in the previous parliamentary term, which voted comprehensively against the so-called proposal. anti-smoking law, because we pointed out that while smoking restrictions, restrictions on this, I would say, not a completely healthy phenomenon is certainly appropriate, but we must do this in a way that is balanced, so that the law is functional, so that the law is as happy as possible with the law as many citizens as possible. It should be the task of us legislators to balance those laws in such a way. And of course, it came to my words, which I said here in the last parliamentary term, and almost half of the Members of the new House also feel the need to amend and with them a huge number of citizens, both smokers and non-smokers, I warn. But, of course, I'll get to that. So the proposal that I'm also a co-designer, that is. that the restaurants, those which will have constructionally separate smoking plants, so that in these constructionally separated and ventilated smoking plants can be smoked, I support it. I see it in Germany, I see it here in nearby Saxony, I see it in other places in Germany, the other day I was in a hotel near Berlin, it was there too. So I think that taking an example from these countries is right, and I think it is necessary, as I say, that law, always write all the laws so that they are balanced. Of course, I also agree completely logically with this and we propose that small pubs and bars, where the area for customers does not exceed 80 square meters and does not serve food to allow smoking. That's the reaction to the villages. I myself am after my mother from the Zlín Region, and when I look at my former senate district, where there are 85 cities and municipalities and mostly very small villages, and the pub is also connected with the cultural space, such as the social hall, and it is really a problem for the operator to support and operate at all, so that there is not the only cultural facility that is in the village at all, for various celebrations etc., so of course this is a real problem too. That means, in any case, we think that this law needs to be amended. And I'm gonna make an argument, too, because unlike my previous speaker here, I don't know, but I go out every weekend with the citizens, and I go to mass meetings with the citizens, different big communities, and I just went to last week. And maybe it'll surprise you, it's not just about small towns. I was in Poděbrady and I was doing research on what is most burning in Poděbrady in terms of community theme. And imagine that one of several topics besides the fact that they don't have sidewalks on the edge of Poděbrad and that they need more seats in senior homes, etc., so they said that they minded this anti-smoking law. Because if you've ever been to Poděbrady, there's a park where there are spa hotels, etc., and because of this law everyone smokes out in the evening, there's all the butts on the street, there's all the noise in the street, so it's not just about Long Street in Prague and Old Town. It is, of course, about a number of other places in the Czech Republic. And the Podebrady specifically, I was there 14 days ago at an event where there were some 5,000 people, and it really was one of the mass things that really bothers them in that town of Podebrady, just outside of Prague. So it's not what we're saying here, it's not that clear. And I'm saying again that this is a typical law where it's just not about political opinion, because we really see it differently here, I fully understand it, because it's really about 50-50, and the arguments are from one side or the other, and it's hard to find the balance between being satisfied by everyone. So that's why we in SPD, respectively. A large part of our Members signed up for the amendment, so, of course, we support this amendment. And maybe someday in the future we will look for, or we will approach, some other amendment will be an initiative here, because really in every European country, I agree with it, the adjustment is in some way different in nuances, even within the same country as it has already been said, the adjustments are different. So maybe the balance between making as many citizens as possible happy, we'll look again and again before it's all worked out. So in any case, we support the amendment to the Anti-Smoking Act because we think that the existing wording of the Act is not ideal, and in any case we will support the amendment to be made. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u7	Thank you, too. Your performance brought up a number of factual points, although I don't think it's your fault. I've got Mr. Holík here first. I ask that he respond to the previous speakers in his speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u8	My esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I am a sworn non-smoking, and I should therefore rejoice over the bill approved by the last House. I voted against it then. I'll explain why. I think smoking's a nasty thing. Cigarettes are narcotics. But if anyone wants to smoke, let them be somewhere in separate rooms where they're among their own. But by this law, we drove smokers out on the street. We made them live advertising for our children. First of all. And two. If I'm smoking in a room, I'm knocking ashes in an ashtray, putting butts in it. Currently going down the street around some gardens, it's desperate. But that's not the worst part yet. Smoke, as Professor Vyzula mentioned here, is harmful, but far more harmful is the ashes that get into the air, carcinogenic ash. And as a representative of the Environment Committee, I strongly oppose and will vote in favour of the amendment to this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u9	I dare hand over the chair. Just a minute, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u10	So nice noon. Another point of fact is made by Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u11	Thank you. I've decided to perform like this, instead of volunteering for a debate or pre-empting with priority rights. I'd just have a few notes for myself. I'm more or less a practical non-smoker, only sometimes I smoke a water pipe because I enjoy making rings. So much for some conflict of interest, etc. I think that the law should proceed to the second part, where we can then talk in detail about the individual parts, which are reasonable, which are not reasonable, which are, or are not dangerous for our health etc., to be able to divide it and vote on the individual parts gradually and even to address the question of where the smoke goes. And then I'd like to stop at what was said here, like these people are rolling out of those pubs, and then they're smoking outside, which, on the one hand, is the commercial, so they're threatening those non-smoking people who are only walking around that pub. But what bothers me mostly from the community experience is that the pavement is blocked and people are rolling into the road and complicated traffic. Like, really! Some streets not only in Prague, but also in Olomouc become impassable or impassable in the evenings. I just don't think that's proportional. That's what I was gonna say. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u12	I thank Vice-President Pikal and now I have another point of fact, Mr Milan Brázdil. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u13	Thank you for your word. Mr. Colleague. It came out through Mr President, and I am also a doctor. Non-smoking. Yeah, smoking is bad for your health. But we put those smokers out there, and the space out there is mine and everyone, smokers, non-smokers, kids, moms, etc. Actually, we made them pollute something outside. These people, who commit ritual suicide, smokers, are supposed to be in boxes, i.e. in some restaurants, in places designated, there to run it, and then at the expense of whoever allows it, have the air filter out and let it out again, and we'll all be happy. And let me compare smoking to sex. Sex is a wanted thing. Needed, socially desirable for reproduction, but also as recreation. It's a great thing. [[Laughs in the hall. Someone's calling, "That's my case! Laughter.]] And now imagine that this thing, that sex is actually forbidden to operate in public. This is forbidden, and it's desirable. [[Big laughs in the hall, calls, claps, that you can barely hear the end of the speech.]] And smoking is undesirable and given to space. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u14	I thank Mr Milan Brázdil and therefore now call for a factual remark from Mr Patrik Nacher. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u15	Dear government, ladies and gentlemen, now my de facto will perish completely, because there is nothing more fun than sex. [[Laughing in the hall]] [[A note off the mic about recreational sex.]] As ever. Okay. [[With a smile.]] Before the replica of my colleague Brázdil about the usefulness of sex and recreation, I had a comment that I wanted on the rapporteur. I would really hate to have the impression that this is a divided black-and-white world, that whoever is signed under this proposal may want to harm someone's health, and whoever is defined against it wants to protect health. I don't really agree with this as a lifetime non-smoking. Yes, if there are medical reasons, I'm not questioning the fact. Again, I am not questioning the fact of the health reasons that are the main reason for the fight against smoking. I question it as an argument, not as a fact, as an argument. I would therefore call on all those who argue to propose a ban on the production, distribution and sale of cigarettes, and I would like to sign under it. Everything else is just pink-painting and alibiism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u16	So I thank the honourable Member and another, with a factual remark, here I have Mr Kamal Farhan. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to comment on the previous speakers. I wanted to comment on the fact that smoking on the street is undignified, that the law, which is the law on health protection against the harmful effects of addictive substances, drove smokers out on the street, that it must be seen by children, that it must be seen by young people. It's always a point of view. I think that let the children see that smoking is undignified, that smoking is harmful to health, and they look at it in a completely different way. I think that when kids and teenagers see people smoking on the street, they see it as something bad, something undignified, and that this group of smokers is on those streets - I don't want to say the word banished, but it's their choice that they smoke on that street. Because young people and children generally start to smoke in some of their socialization at concerts, restaurants and other facilities. So I can't agree that this is a bad example. On the contrary, they see that it is wrong. So I don't have a problem with that. On the contrary, I have a different point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u18	So I thank the honourable Member and, with another point of fact, I call on Mr Marian Bojek. Please. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u19	Hello, Mr. Chairman. Dear government, fellow Members, I would like to respond here to Mr Vyzula. This morning, when I was watching the press conference, which was before the House vote, where the Minister of Health and many of the best, most successful doctors were at, so when I listened to it, I felt like I was at a convention of Jehovah's Witnesses. Because Mrs. Králíková's argument, who works at the center of addiction, that a few months later, heart attacks, asthma attacks, Professor Pafko tells us how super America is, how great it is to live there, there must not be smoking anywhere! Well, I wouldn't want to live there, in America. And I note that I'm a non-smoking man. So it really isn't. [[13.30 hours]] And through Mr President to the Minister. I'll bring 50 people to your press conference who will tell you that the law here is completely nonsense. So you bring in 10 doctors and you're worldly. And your arguments, the surveys you're making here, they're completely false, because there's nowhere to be highlighted or credibly, that you were asking these people if they're okay with it. You just asked if he'd agree to smoke in restaurants where it's cooked. But no one put in those surveys that they weren't gonna come into that space at all. So I, when I got into the House, my friends, my friends wanted to know, please, do something about it. We're freezing outside. And I know, on the other hand, the cases of old people who had a heart attack with the transitions, the heat-to-winter transitions. [[Resurrection in the O.R. Laughter.]] So this is much worse because they're getting colds all the time. So this is my argument. It's total nonsense, and it's denial of freedom of business and freedom of choice for every normal citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-20-ps2017-012-08-006-021.u20	Time, Mr. Ambassador. So, given that I have here a request for a break from Mr Chvojka's President of the ČSSD, I will interrupt this point, but please do not leave because we have one more important vote to take, and that is that we must vote, and I propose that we remove the remaining unnegotiated items approved by the 12th session of the Chamber of Deputies. I don't see a checkout application. I hereby initiate the vote. Whoever is to remove the remaining points, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 143, 148 Members registered, for 95, against 28, abstained 25. The proposal to remove the remaining points has been accepted. We have discussed the agenda for the 12th meeting. I am ending this meeting because here was the proposal of a member of the ČSSD, president of the club, to make a break within 14 hours. Have a nice weekend, and I'll see you at the next meeting.
