ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u1	20. Draft by Members Dominik Feri, Miroslav Kalousek, Helena Langšádlová, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Karel Schwarzenberg, František Vácha and Vlastimil Válek on the issue of the Act amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended /German Document 86/ - First Reading We received the Government's position as House Press 86/1. I prosit that Mr Dominik Feri present the proposal for the appellants. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u2	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I wish you a good day and allow me to introduce the House Press 86, amendment to Act No. 99/1963 Coll., the Civil Procedure Code. In short, it can be said that it is the abolition of the seats in the district courts in work matters. The law on courts and judges determines how these matters are discussed, what the Senate looks like. It consists of the President of the Senate, which means a judge of a professional, and of two consorts. The SEC, this is the law we want to amend, then specifies in which cases the civil proceedings at the District Court are held in the Senate. It's work stuff, and it's what the law says. Unfortunately, or fortunately, we do not have such a law, and therefore the Senate's decision-making in civil proceedings is limited to work-related matters, labour-related matters, which are, in total, about five percent of the overall agenda. This intention is not new, it has been dealt with by the Ministry of Justice for a long time, in 2010, at the same time this Ministry of Justice has been playing with the idea of abolishing the seats, playing with them. Let us mention, for example, the chapter of the White Book of Justice of 2016, which, however, has not been heard of for quite a long time. I don't know what stage this is, and I'd like to see the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán here shed some light on it and bring it closer. In any case, and this is what the White Paper of Justice of this ministry is based on, the courts were asked to give an opinion to refer to how the sitting parties operate in civil proceedings and whether it is a viable solution or whether it is a long-standing solution. In fact, from the comments that have come out, we can somehow put together the five most common issues that are linked to the second-in-chiefs and the role of civil-trials. That is about the five basic reasons why we want to change this law. The first reason is that there is no long-term interest in the performance of the member's duties. If you have been involved in such proceedings, you know that the second chair is very often already at retirement age. For your idea, of the 5,600 members currently working at district and regional courts, 60 percent of them are over 60 years of age, even a significant part of them being over 70 years of age, which is the maximum limit of the profession of a judge. That means it's a long-term problem. After all, the Ministry also acknowledged the need to revise this system in some way. Another reason for this is that a number of sitting people approach this quite extremely laxly. They don't consider their role to be anything fundamental. They approach this very formally, and what is a bigger problem is the fact that they do not appear at all at times without an apology to individual actions. I even noted the case of disciplinary proceedings led by the disciplinary Senate of the Supreme Administrative Court, and it concerned that negotiations were to be ordered at 16 o'clock, but unfortunately none of the judges were present, and in that situation the judge apparently sent the verdicts in good faith without signing the protocol etc., there was quite a bit unkind and unfortunate. So that's a pretty big problem. And there's also a conflict problem, for example. There was also experience in the Constitutional Court regarding the right to a legal judge under the Charter, when the courts sometimes tried to extend the list or did not specify it by a schedule of work where he is a co-chair. So that's the second point. The third point concerns the participation of the seats in their activities in a court of law. There are many who approach this very responsibly, very actively, and are aware that within this very Senate, two can outvote one. That means, two judges of the people, two laymen, two second chairmen can overrule the President of the court. There are a lot of cases like this, let's say, professionally educated and capable alternates, but it's not always the rule, mostly the role is really very passive. And that has to do with excessive lack of expertise. The chair is not meant to be someone who has a degree in law school. It's supposed to be the original intention, someone who in some way adds such lay justice, who removes judicial rudeness, but from those cases that have been recorded, it turns out that the judge, the president of the Senate, often has to lecture beyond the level of the sitting, and they are actually only in his tow. The last reason, and I've already hinted a little bit before, is that the judge can't make any decisions. That means he can't refuse the lawsuit, he can't issue a payment order without the co-chairs present, and the moment he doesn't sit there, when they're not there, the proceedings are dragged. After all, that's the one for the main reasons. This means that, in sub-cases, this removal can, in our view, speed up judicial proceedings. So much for the introduction and I look forward to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u3	Thank you, honourable Member. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Pavel Blažek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u4	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I think it's all been said. The government's position is probably justified by Minister Pelikán, I presume. Because that young man, if you hadn't met him, that's Minister Pelikán, because since there's no Bělobrádek in that government, there's got to be a boy in there, I see a new image. I think the Minister will say the Government's position, and it was exhausting for the plaintiff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Pavel Blažek. I am now opening a general debate where I have two entries. And now I have to ask President Chvojka whether he has priority rights or properly because he is Minister Pelikán. So you will use your prior rights before the Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I apologize to Minister Pelikán, but I really applied before he did. And I think, in part, or for the vast majority, I'm going to say what he might also say, so he can fill me in. I would like to respond to this proposal by my colleague, Feri, and others, which concerns the abolition of the seat in the labour court. There's one thing I'd like to confess. From the whole legal order and from the whole legal system, I prefer labour law. It always seemed to me that this was the right that a person in real life, outside civil law of course, is facing the most. [[11.10 hours]] Most of us walk, and our relatives walk, or walk, or go to a job that is regulated by labour law. Of course, there are various disputes in employment relations, whether you have an invalidity of your notice of employment or an action involving, for example, an action. non-payment of wages, there's a lot of disputes. And the point of the time why the chairmen in the labour dispute proceedings are set up in the decision-making of these disputes is very simple. There is a need for a layable element to be anchored, which need not be anchored in other things. And I think it's very good that there's an institute of the layman element. What my colleague Feri said, I totally agree that there are only old ones. But that doesn't mean there's anything wrong with it, that only old people are in the position of second chair. The problem is, and perhaps the Minister could answer that the seats are very poorly rewarded. There is a slim reward for performing this in my opinion very important function and this may also be the problem why there are only these older people who are otherwise retired and basically have it as a hobby. I would like to say that I propose that this proposal be rejected at first reading. I think that, as government legislation stated, first of all, it is not conceptual, i.e. why we're canceling the chair of those labour disputes - we're saying that there are old people there, which I don't think is a problem and that it's useless, and we're leaving them in those criminal matters. So it's unsystematic, the illogicalness of the proposal. And secondly, I think it would be good to maintain that this is a good thing. In my opinion, the chairmen in labour disputes can bring some insight into reality into the courts' decisions. The judge - and I don't mean any harm - doesn't have to know what practice is in private companies after 20 years of trial and trial, and that's what the co-chairs might know. That is, in fact, their main purpose in bringing their life's experience into the trial. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, I suggest that the motion be rejected, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u7	I'm registering a motion to dismiss Mr Chvojka. And now with priority rights, Minister Robert Pelikán. Sorry, I have some factual points here. Well, I'm sorry, but that's where the point came in. Please, so Mr Feri and subsequently here I have a point of fact from Mr František Vácha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Minister will certainly justify this in an exhaustive manner. I'll take the liberty of reacting. I completely agree with President Chvojka that there is a need for a better evaluation of the seats. And when this proposal goes through, there's a little bit of space going around because the county courts are using or demanding the largest number of seats, the regional ones, that's the small ones against it. If this agenda goes away, then there will be a need for fewer seats, and even more so, they will be able to increase the remuneration of second-guessers, who are really trivial. Thank you, Minister Pelikán, for trying to benefit in some way. And yet, if I make it in time, employment relationships are emerging, or they're based on a relationship between an employee and an employer. And it should be noted that the vast majority of the alternates are employees rather than employers' representatives. After all, during the debate on the abolition of seats at the district courts in the civilian population, there were many references to foreign arrangements, where employers' representatives and employees' representatives were present. I do not consider this entirely happy because it would create other employees' representatives, other employers' representatives, and it would only complicate the whole process. I'm more in favour of this cancellation. I know the D.O.D.'s up to something. I know it's getting ready. But at the moment, let's say, political leaven, we can't be absolutely sure who will sit in the Justice Department, what his intentions will be. I think that this problem will be further and further delayed. So that's why we're putting in here some appropriate medium that can be solved by this agenda. It seems to me systemic, because it concerns a very specific matter, but at the same time it does not restrict the government to address the issue of adjoiners, even within the framework of punishment. And when the Minister's successor comes up with a concrete solution, then this proposal can, of course, be withdrawn afterwards. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u9	Thank you. And another point of fact, Mr. František Vácha. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I volunteered when my colleague Chvojka said the reward. The Minister is already smiling. I've asked Secretary Válková to be second-in-chief, and now I'm not gonna say reward, but replacement increased. Since 1992 they received CZK 22 per day, in 1996 it increased to CZK 150 per day. Since 1996 the daily refund is 150 crowns per day. I regularly intersect the Minister every year to increase this replacement. Maybe he'll talk about it, that it's not a reward, that it's an honorable function, and that 150 crowns a day should be enough for these people. It is evident that it is not enough for them, that the people who apply for this function are little, that then they do not go there because they do not feel replaced enough, or when they cannot be rewarded. And there are few of them, and there are no judgments for those who sit. So this is one of the reasons why my colleague Feri here mentioned how to make it easier for those courts to help them, to speed up the proceedings -- by being in some parts, and apparently the Ministry is preparing it. These were the answers that I received from the Minister over the past four years, that he was preparing himself, that he was working on it, that he was discussing it and that a new law was being prepared, that those sitting would not be. So I'm just pointing out that it's not a reward, it's a replacement, it's 150 crowns, it's undignified. This proposal is intended to help make it easier for those courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u11	There. Thank you. Minister, please wait, because I have one more point of fact, and it is Professor Helena Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I've been kind of invited, which is why I'm talking. Yes, it's true, you turned to me when I was in the position of Minister of Justice. I had a reform prepared, which included, of course, this. We wanted to abolish the system of supreme courts and make the finding courts and courts that would be appeals, or the judicial structure would be simplified. In the context of this judicial reform, we have actually planned systemically to abolish the seats, virtually. their replacement, but not a lay element, we would leave it only in certain exceptional cases. This is why I have trouble raising my hand in this law, because it's really a partial aspect, and it's a long way from a big reform. So just to explain why I'm going to abstain again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u13	Thank you to the Professor and now, finally, Minister Robert Pelikán. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been waiting. [[The whole time he was ready and standing by the pitch.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government has taken a negative position on this, and I am taking a negative position on this. I'm begging you to think a little bit about what this institute is really for before you start considering the interruption of the second chair. And that's a completely different question, is it working well? Because if we come to the conclusion that the institute is, in its essence, good and maybe not quite fulfilling its purpose today, then we need to think about how to adjust it so that the purpose can be better achieved. And we can talk about an increase in the reward, even though I don't think anyone who doesn't come in for 150 crowns is probably not gonna come in for 300, but why not? But we shouldn't be interrupting the institute at the time. What's this institute good for? I often hear in this House and in the media from many politicians lamenting that the law is incomprehensible, that it is still changing, that it is too much that no one can understand it, except perhaps those fools who study it. And she's the truth. The law is complicated. What is written in the law often does not mean what is written there, because lawyers have spent their lives learning to work with the text to find its true nature. And basically, without that legal education, you can barely help yourself. And, frankly, it doesn't really matter, because the way a person calls a plumber when he needs to fix his trash, he calls a lawyer when he needs something in this area. [[11.20 hours]] But - and now it's important but - there are two important exceptions. Every citizen, at least a little mentally competent citizen, must be accessible and understandable criminal law, because he must know what he can and cannot do in terms of whether or not he loses his personal freedom, and he must have access to labour law, because that is what protects him in everyday life in the most important economic area and what interests him most. And a lay element in the courts is a key control mechanism to meet this condition. This means that they are involved in decision-making, and even in the majority, in the Senate of Lawyers in these two areas, it makes it possible to control that the legal area is not moving in any direction that is no longer understandable to the unlawyer. And I really consider this element extremely important. Canceling it would be a great folly, and it certainly would not do our citizens any good. The Ministry of Justice is aware of the practical difficulties we have in this area today. And as I say, we are considering various shifts in this direction and introducing them to the Ministry, I assume, if there are no changes in the concept, next year in the framework of a significant amendment, or probably even a new law on courts and judges. However, I stress that what the Ministry will prepare, if it does not change its direction, will not be the abolition of the lay element, will not be the abolition of the seats. And I hope this element stays with us. Thank you. Otherwise, I also join the motion for rejection at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u15	So you're joining the motion to dismiss President Chvojka. Okay. I now have one point of fact here, and it is Mr Dominik Feri. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not wish to wrong the Minister in any way, but what he has said and spoken here is in a slight conflict with what the Ministry of Justice is writing in the White Paper of Justice in the chapter on the seats that the Minister has prepared. That is, I understand, and Minister, please nod that you want the preservation in the current form of labour. [[Minister Pelikán: No, that's not necessary.]] You didn't say that. Then I won't hurt you at all. But it is necessary to mention that the Ministry has been working on this for quite a long time, and I have raised a question here at the outset, which I have not yet received an answer about how the White Book of Justice ended, because it should have been a document that would in some way clearly define what our vision is, what the vision of Czech justice is. And unfortunately, since 2016, we haven't had any news of where it's gone, what other intentions are with it. The Supreme Court has had many comments on this, and I am not quite sure that they have been satisfactorily resolved. That means this question towards the White Book of Justice. And I'll take the liberty of repeating what I've already said. Of course, we welcome the efforts to resolve the problems of the district courts, but let's send it on, let's talk about it. Let's extend the deadline. And then maybe we can download it when the Ministry comes up with something wider. But this has absolutely key implications. It can help people whose proceedings are being disproportionately dragged forward, while also reducing the demands of the district court-martials. Like I said, 60 percent of sitting over 60 years old. It's hard to cast. Mostly employees' representatives. That's the key problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u17	Thank you, too, for keeping time. I have two factual points here. First, I ask for Mr Milan Feranc's speech. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u18	Hello, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a very short factual point indeed. What are we going to vote on? Abolishing lay control of the courts' decision-making. Cancellation of lay... in one area... employment, virtually. Civil. If this were proposed by the YES movement, we will hear here how we restrict democracy, how demonstration needs to be done. Then I really won't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next in line is Mr. Marek Výborný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u20	Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, dear colleagues, I would like to say to KDU-ČSL that we will support the release of this press to second reading. I don't think even the petitioner here was discussing that the ambition should be comprehensively addressed by the Institute of Admins, but he's dealing with one specific matter. And I, at this moment, when the Minister is in demission squared, and when the Ministry of Justice has been here for x years talking about preparing something, it is not a guarantee to me that we will have this thing prepared by the Ministry of Justice within six months as a comprehensive solution to this institute within the Czech judiciary. That is why we believe that it is right to talk about the matter further here in the House of Deputies. And I think what my fellow speaker said was mixing apples and pears. We are moving in the area of judicial power, not in matters of measuring what is and what is not democratic here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u21	Thank you. Next in order for a factual remark is Mr Dominik Feri. With a factual remark, Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u22	Thank you for the floor. A colleague of Feranec can see into my head. Mr President, what am I thinking now? For lunch. Right. But what I was going to say is that the layman element in employment management is surviving. It's been going on for a long time. This has been discussed for quite a long time. And certainly if you came up with this, we wouldn't be against it, and we wouldn't say you wanted to remove the surveillance. Regardless of how public oversight is to be ensured when the co-chair does not really participate in this? They don't know anything about it. And if there's really a case of judicial malice, there's no senate with the second-in-chief in the appeals court. That means that there would be some sort of balance in this case. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u23	Thank you for your performance. Another point of fact is Mr Leo Luzar and then President Chvojka and Minister Pelikán with the facts. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the liberty of actually reacting to my colleague, Feri, through you. I was impressed by one thought in his speech, that his motion would speed up the court proceedings, in other words, that the second-in-chiefs seem to be holding back or slowing down these proceedings here. And here I would like to argue hard, because, of course, if we're using this as an argument, there would have to be other procedures that go normally fast, and only these are because there are sitting people who actually, like he said, don't want to, or don't participate, or they don't know, it's holding you back. But that's not true. I would even say that maybe the opposite is true, and that many lawsuits that don't sit here have been held and dragged over many years against these. And using it as an argument that by canceling the seats, we will speed up these disputes, I think, is a bad argument. Here I am leaning towards the fact that lay control in the labour relationship is very necessary. And who has ever had such a labour dispute will certainly be right to me that, in a way, even the person who puts his position before the court and relies on the fact that there the lay control will understand his steps, which he does, why he goes to the court to defend his position of employment against the stronger one, because the employee is always on the weaker level compared to his employer when he is speaking in a labour dispute. That's why there's a layman's check to take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I ask President Chvojka to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm happy for the lively debate, because it's a very important topic. I'd like to respond in two ways. First of all, to a fellow petitioner, to a colleague of Marek the Výborný through the Vice-President, to their 'let's move on and see what we can do'. I don't think there's any reason to let this go on. I consider the Institute of Chairs in Labour Disputes to be very important. I think the layman element is very important that there are people who just have some work experience, experience with a corporate culture that a judge may not have or do not have. And that's why it is, after all, the Institute of Employment Affairs. So let's just send it and move on and see what we can do about it - never mind! I think the chair should be in labour disputes. And then the second thing, and maybe Minister Pelikán will answer that, too, who will come after me. I don't know about any of the intentions of the Justice Department or any other, that the co-chairs should be disturbed in labour disputes. So maybe it's some bluff on the part of Mr. Speaker Feri, but I think it would be contrary to what the Minister just said. That he is also defending that the Institute of Adjourns for Labour Disputes should be preserved. So these are claims that go against each other. Mr Feri, through the Vice-President, says that the Ministry is preparing to cancel these seats. On the contrary, Minister Pelikán supports the chairmen in labour disputes. Therefore, I might also want an explanation from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u27	Thank you and now, with a factual remark, Minister Robert Pelikán. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like us to conduct the debate in a correct and well-founded and argued manner. And to say, "Joiners are an excess"... Why are they insurmountable? What changed in that society that this institute survived? I feel that all the changes that have taken place in society tend to mean that we need it more than before. Because the law is more complicated than before, and the probability that the law will break away from the layman's perception is greater and not less. So what kind of an outburst? That should be explained. And I also think it's weird to smuggle it into second reading with the fact that this is a proposal to abolish this institute, but at second reading, it becomes a proposal to improve the institute. I don't think so! So if you have any suggestions on how to make it better, then put him here and let him go to second reading! But if you have a motion to cancel, then for God's sake, only those who want to cancel. And I say for myself and for the ministry, I certainly don't want to cancel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u29	Thank you. Now I have a larger number of factual points. Mr. Chairman, are you also on the verdict? President Farský. Logged in properly. Okay, so we have three factual points here. Mr Veselý, I will now ask for a speech, followed by Mr Dominik Feri and then Mr Michálek. And then, with a factual remark, Mr Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, I must confess that as a practicing lawyer, I join those views that I welcome the laymen in court very much. Especially in the field of work and criminal matters at first instance, I consider them quite important and there is a kind of core healthy insight. What I agree with the petitioner, but this is not part of this proposal, is a problem with the very high age of a number of alternates. Well, that's true, but I don't think that canceling them really matters. I agree with Minister Pelikán here. Let's definitely have fun doing what to do to reduce the age of the adjoinings so that there are people there who are in active life. I agree. Please don't disturb them. In employment and criminal matters at first instance, I consider their presence to be very important and I attach myself to this view that we should not allow this law to be read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u31	děkovat you and then Mr Dominik Feri. Please make a point, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u32	Thank you for the floor. I took notes to answer everyone. First of all, colleague Leo Luzar, the layman is holding the controls off. Of course, as I mentioned in the very introduction, the judge himself, the President of the Senate, cannot give any decision, he cannot possibly reject the action or anything like that. The Senate decides. And the minute the co-chairs don't show up, there's nothing he can do. That's how he adjourns. I mentioned here the case just from the disciplinary court that, in the good will of the judge, she probably wanted to come forward, but then she was covered for it. That means if the co-chairs don't go in there, the controls are dragging. I don't think it's entirely appropriate to drag a single judge into this, either. President Chvojka here mentioned the conflict between what the Ministry wants to keep the seats. That's why I asked the Minister. Because it is in the White Paper, which I am repeatedly talking about, on page 4, that chapter says: It is possible to suggest that the present state be maintained. Not recommended. That means two sitting laymen. And then there's variant B, replacing the current employees' and employers' adjectives, and for C, the abolition of the Institute of Adjectives. This means that the Ministry obviously, if it is consistent and maintains its opinion of 2016, proposes either to abolish it or to inspire foreign legislation, and to ensure that employees and employers' representatives are present in those proceedings. This means that if the Minister does not disprove it, then the preservation in its present form, i.e. municipal councils, delegation, etc., so it doesn't count. That's enough to answer. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u33	Thank you. And now I will ask Mr Jakub Michálek to speak, Mr Farský will prepare himself and then Minister Pelikán with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u34	Thank you for the floor. I must say that, on the basis of the debate that is going on here, I do not have an entirely strong view of whether this institute should continue to be as it is today or, on the contrary, be abolished, adjusted, etc. I think that we all see some of the problems that are linked to the layman element in our current form, and that means underfinancing the seats, if it's actually supposed to be the work that people go there to make money for. Which, I guess, was never meant to be. And the age structure of the adjoinings, which, in some cases, can really cause problems. However, it is true that this should be dealt with by the chairmen of the relevant courts who propose those sittings. The problem is that the profession is just very unattractive. I remember when I was in America, it was just like that when there was a trial, that guy drew himself into the jury. And our high school teacher had to go to the jury, and before that, he was on a waiting list. But it was really like he went for one driving, and normal people went there, so somehow it worked. I don't think there's a whole lot of ground at the moment for us to interrupt the element of the adjoinings. After all, the participation of laymen is, in my opinion, important in the judiciary. I remember in the election campaign we suggested that there should be one more misconception in the disciplinary senators judged by the judge. And because of this, the ad paid TOP 09 came out that we want to introduce the People's Justice in the Czech Republic. It really shouldn't work like that. [[Weak applause from the right.]] Civil control in some form is important. For example, we say that anonymous judgments of higher courts, not just the highest courts, should be published today. Because if you saw what comes out of some courts in some cases, but that is far from affecting all the judges, you'd be surprised. [[Time warning]] So I would propose an accompanying resolution, which I will present in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u35	Thank you and follow Mr Farský with a point of fact. Please. And Minister Pelikán will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the debate that is going on here. As Club Mayors and Independents, we believe that it should continue. That is why we want to release this press to the second reading, because we are actually in a situation, and I agree, for the most part, with the Minister of Demission squared, as was funny here from his colleague Výborný, in that, indeed, the laws are no longer for laymen. But I wouldn't give in by saying that we're just going to do it and we're going to do it and we're going to continue to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to have to do it, we're going to do it. [[11.40 hours]] Therefore, we do not see the solution to this problem of our legislation that we will insert a lay element or insert into some of the processes, maintain a lay element, on the contrary, there should be a way in which the decision-making of courts will be less positive, but more natural in assessing the facts and evidence presented. But that doesn't save the layman, which requires more courage for judges in many cases, and I wish them that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Minister Pelikán, so far, with the last factual remark I have entered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u38	Thank you, I really do have two technical things. The first concerns the White Book. The White Paper was conceived as a discussion material, i.e. summarized in those things where it was unclear, the debate did not take place in the judiciary, summarized some starting points or possible solutions that resonated in the judiciary. And what really resonates in a large part of the justice system is that we get rid of those ugly laymen, the annoying ones, and that we're finally gonna do it our way and finally it's gonna be beautiful, no one's gonna talk to us about it. So we wrote it as one of the variants. And the discussion took place, and this option is no longer on the table today. What's on the table is either some preservation of today's state of affairs with some soft modifications, I'll say, the type of exact increase in the reward, the expansion of those lists so that people don't have to go there so often, and that they could really better combine it with the normal work, the popularization of the thing at all, because many people don't know at all that they can participate in this, they would often want etc. Or the German version, i.e. that those sitting in labour disputes would broadcast trade unions and employers' unions, and that would increase their quality as well. One last to that speed. Soon there will be a second statistical report on justice. All you have to do is look at last year's. You'll see that these disputes aren't particularly slow. And frankly, we're not really worried about the speed of our justice today, we're worried about the low quality of some decisions, which then leads to the extension of some disputes, a very small percentage of complex disputes, because that's where it goes from top to bottom. And faster justice means moose. Los is a very quick justice, but it's not entirely fair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u39	I have one more application for the general debate and it is Mr Jakub Michálek. So far, it's the last application I have here. So, Mr. Ambassador, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I would like to propose and recommend that we address the question of the members of the Constitutional Legal Committee, which has the justice system, so that we first request detailed documentation, including, for example, the annual statistical report that the Ministry of Justice is processing, and only on the basis of a more detailed evaluation, that we may put together a more comprehensive proposal that will address the issue of the seats, because, after all, their abolition also seems to me to be a rather radical cut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u41	Thank you. So at this point, all applications are exhausted, both for the general debate and for the factual point, so I am now ending the general debate. I'll ask the draftsman's representative and the rapporteur if they're interested in the final word? Yes, Mr Feri is interested in the final word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank all my colleagues who have discussed this. I am glad to see that he is also speaking on such a specific and technical matter. There is a broad interest in rejecting this proposal at first reading, and I fully respect that. And I would ask Minister Pelikán to call on his future successor and motivate him to deal with the issue of the second-in-chiefs, and this transfer of the ministry will certainly be quite difficult, so that we simply do not fit in and deal with it further, because the government's participation here is absolutely necessary. So thank you very much for the discussion that took place to all colleagues who took part in it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-13-ps2017-012-04-003-020.u43	Thank you. I have no further interest in the final word, as Mr Blažek told me. So we will now proceed to the vote. I have here the motion of President Chvojka to dismiss. So we will proceed to the vote. I don't have a motion to unsubscribe - I have a motion to unsubscribe, so I'm going to unsubscribe you, please sign in with your voting cards again. I will call a Member to be sure, because there has been a longer debate. Once again, President Chvojka proposes to reject this proposal. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Whoever opposes rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 61. 157 Members registered, for 98, against 33, abstained 26. The motion to dismiss has been accepted. This concludes the discussion of this press. We will proceed to the next item on our agenda, and that is the point.
