ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u1	60. Members of Václav Klaus, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended /house print 61/ - third reading At the rapporteur's table, Mr Václav Klaus took the position of the draftsman and, please, the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which was the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Lukáš Bartona, to come to the rapporteur's table and take the position there. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 61/5, which was delivered to us on 13 May of this year. The resolution of the guarantee committee is available to you as House Press 61/6. First, I will ask the Chamber of Deputies for peace so that we can discuss the school law. I am now asking the appellant whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That's right. Mr Klaus has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly begin the third reading of the school bill. I would like to begin by thanking everyone for the very factual discussion of this draft, which was here in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Education Committee. It's not always a habit. The second thing I would like to appreciate is that many Members themselves have spoken in the debate. So it came to pass that, not only the parliamentary clubs, but almost every MP knows what to vote on first. Secondly, he made his own political opinion on the whole thing, which I think is very beneficial. And I say this despite the fact that by far not all the parts of my amendment have passed through the school committee, but I consider it very democratic and correct. If only that were true of other laws, which, as I said a moment ago, we are implementing, or often depend on the work of a single Member who will notice some nonsense in the present law and maybe at the last moment it will stop and sometimes it will not. So I guess that's the introduction. The second thing is procedure. The procedure for voting proposed by the rapporteur. I think it is in this spirit, or it will allow the House to express its political will to all parts of the law and amendments. I would like to thank the rapporteur, who has done a lot of work on this, Parliamentary legislation and also the Ministry of Education, namely Deputy Minister Prudíková, who really took care of this. [[10.50 hours]] It's a matter of substance. As has already been said here, the amendment concerns kindergartens, the compulsory provision of a place for two-year-olds in kindergartens, which the amendment proposes to abolish, covered compulsory preschool education and covered the issue of payment. This third part is no longer there because it has not passed the committee and no one has read such an amendment. Let me briefly lobby these two things. Compulsory kindergarten, senior year, fifth year, will be in the first vote. I proposed to abolish this obligation, and the school committee did not support it very closely, but I will say a few words to you. Over 94 percent of the children had already gone to kindergartens, regardless of the law that was adopted. Perhaps the law was adopted with the intention of helping socially the weakest or some dedicated groups. Here I dare quote a report from the Czech School Inspectorate. "Kids for whom the last school year would have been compulsory have failed to be involved, approximately 3% of the children from the population year, especially those for whom preschool education would be most beneficial because they come from a socially and economically disadvantaged environment." Or, in some way, this law does not work in practice for that group of children, who often do not even go to school and for whom the original lawr may have intended it. Secondly, the school is not set for part of the children, or the legislative procedure is not clear at all. Thirdly, compulsory pre-school education meant an increase in administration for school workers, for example in the area of registration organisation, monitoring of children with a fallout, monitoring of attendance, enforcement of regular attendance, justification for absences and so on. So I dare to appeal to you, support the first amendment that Mrs Kozlová has read for the pirát, because the law really misses the effect and only brings bureaucracy. Let's see what happens in the House. Part two. Two-year-olds don't belong in kindergartens. There has been a broad consensus across the political spectrum, and the Education Committee has leaned towards the version of Mr Rais, who specifically specified this, and I will support this. So that's the part that I think should definitely go through with the law. The third significant part that will be voted on today was not about the original substance of the case, it was about delaying the reform of funding. The options we have today are two. Either postpone for two years, as I suggested, or postpone for a year, as suggested by Mr. Minister and Mr. Vondrák, respectively, through Mr. Špičák. Here again, I dare to lobby when I have that word on the election of the longer term, because this reform is really dangerous, and I say this without any ideological bias. It will increase in a very significant way the number of funds that the state will pump into education without achieving that the teachers will receive more money. The government itself says in its material that 9 600 to 10,000 extra teachers go to schools, teachers we don't have. It's hard to find a math teacher, a chemist, a science teacher. So it's more or less about blowing up the school system and not solving the real problems we have. Here I think there's been a bit of a blackout in the debate that was here at first reading, that I actually share the criticism of the current situation. I just think that correcting this strange pseudo-reform of funding is not the right one. So that's the second lobby I dare say. I will address the other points here when we vote, so that I do not delay. Perhaps the most significant is the proposal made by Mr Čižinský, who was implemented there as an amendment, and we also have a separate law, if necessary. So that's the thing that a group of Members put in here again, but I don't want to keep you any longer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u3	I thank Mr Klaus. I am opening a debate in which President Gazdík is entered with priority rights. After him, I'll grant... [[Reporter Bartoň.]] The rapporteur also has priority rights, but I saw the first one in the debate signed by President Gazdík. If you prefer the rapporteur, I will give him my word. [[The President turns to Mr Gazdík]] Please, rapporteur, you have the floor. I'm just saying, we're at the third reading. Under the Rules of Procedure, only the appellant shall speak, then the debate shall be opened, then the rapporteur may speak, who shall also have priority rights in this case. Just so we're clear on how we're progressing. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u4	Thank you for the floor. I would like to inform the Education Committee in its resolution, which is under press number 61/6, adopted the procedure, adopted individual opinions on individual amendments and dealt with the amendments mentioned in press number 61/5. The first three proposals marked by letter A are proposals that have emerged from the guarantee committee, the school committee. Furthermore, we have proposals B, or B1, from Mr Stanislav Fridrich or Mr Rais, who moves the delay of regional education (?) One year. Here I would say that while my previous speaker mentioned Amendment A3, which shifts by two years, the law shifts by two years, while transitional provisions are being shifted for a year in Amendment B1. Both of these amendments are also voteable in a row. In the event that Amendment A3 is approved and enters into force before 1 September 2018, a two-year delay will apply. As Amendments C, Mrs Valachová's proposals, read by Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, are. Letters C actually end with proposals - it doesn't actually end. Letter D is Mr Čižinský, who was mentioned here by my previous speaker. This is a single word and it is a preparatory class. The letter E is Mr Jiří Mihola, who, as it is proposed in the procedure, will not come on the agenda because the proposal A2, A1, which is about the same, releases the cancellation of compulsory pre-school... introduces compulsory pre-school attendance again. Members' proposals F are from Mrs Lenka Kozlová and, in particular, here I would like to emphasise F7, F8... F6, F7, concerning individual education. As an amendment, point G, which is from me, has been recorded. This is not an amendment, it is an accompanying resolution, and when I say the procedure approved by the guarantee committee, I will propose that this procedure be amended at the request of the legislative department so that G, the accompanying resolution, is voted after the whole law. Even from the point of view of the matter, it is okay, because this accompanying resolution does not primarily concern the school law, but it concerns the possibility of placing the two-year-olds we are discussing here, and it concerns children's groups as another facility that cares for two-year-olds. I shall inform you that a motion for refusal has not been filed at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u5	Thank you. Now with priority rights in the debate, President Gazdík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. We have before us an amendment to the school law, for which the very professional school public is waiting. Although this is our parliamentary proposal, I would like to thank the Ministry of Education and fellow Members of the ANO movement very much for acting together very constructively in the interests of the professional public, so that there is no chaos in education. The chaos can be very easy, and the reform can be postponed by two years, as my colleague Klaus' proposal is put forward here, in such a case, as I mentioned at second reading, we will be in a state where after the New Year at least five regions will not be able to deliver individual teachers or tariff salaries, let alone some extras or extras. That's a big problem, and we should be dealing with it. I believe that a good compromise has been agreed, which will solve how the problem of municipalities with two-year-olds can be dealt with differently, is not so, and from my point of view it is a typical subsidiarityan power when the municipality has to adjust itself, whether it wants to set up a children's group, whether it wants to finish a nursery, whether it knows that it will develop more and that it will have children more than six to ten years or stagnate. And we really shouldn't be dealing with that by order of law, as has been the case in the law so far. I am sorry that it is not likely that the cancellation of the last preschool year will not pass, because it is really just a stupid, bureaucratic measure that any parent can bypass by saying that he will educate the child at home. Teachers and directors only have bureaucracy with it, and it doesn't really do any good. However, I understand some colleagues who say that this is introduced very briefly and that they want to evaluate it. Thank you for your attention and I believe that we will approve a good amendment to the school law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u7	Good morning. Thank you, too. Now, please, for Mr Ventruba's debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u8	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my previous speakers have already said many things I wanted to emphasise, but I want to say that the amendment to this law affects me not only as a Member but as parents. And I'd like to say that it's mostly about parents and kindergarten in the field. I also went through this terrain, whether in our village Modřice, where we are founders, in the South Moravian Region, where the department, which is in charge of education, is with the Head. And I just want to highlight things that went either in the mail or in the phone calls. I want to intensify the discussion of the school law and the obligation of kindergartens to receive children from two years of age and then compulsory pre-school education to the extent of one year. You know well that in the House, and I am glad, we have witnessed contributions that advocated arguments both for and against. I have to say, to support the other, or at least I got an e-mail from the president of the Pedagogical Association tonight - I don't know if you got it - . Radek Sárközi. And I have to say, I'm intrigued because it's written very nicely. Now I will overlook all that we have already said, but I will support a slightly different statistics by my previous speaker, Mr Klaus Jr. He says, and this is the second point, which is not clear at all, whether we approve or not, and this is the statement by the Pedagogical Chamber that compulsory preschool education from five years in kindergarten did not prove in practice that the number of children in kindergarten even decreased compared to last year, and the European Union recommends that 95 percent of the children in preschool education, and we had 96,4 before the introduction of compulsory preschool education. It's just for delivery. What we said about kindergarten... In our kindergarten in Modřice there is an exception. We could theoretically take the two-year-olds, but there's no money for equipment, and neither are the educators. You know it shouldn't be teachers, but it should be nurses or nannies, etc. So accept this contribution from me to support - to support - and clearly - the amendment to this law, because I think it will be good not only for the families of the traditional - Mrs GajdůGajdůšková is not here, through Mr President - but also for the non-traditional type of family, but I think, above all, for our smallest generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u9	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mrs Valachová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words about the amendments tabled to this amendment to the school law. Paradoxically, the most important change, although of course no one had foreseen this when presenting this parliamentary proposal, in my view, it is necessary to consider the displacement of the start of the new funding of our kindergarten, primary school and secondary school. Of course, it is not happy how this change was discussed in the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. at what speed and without the relevant debates. And, of course, it is also not happy that, at this point in time, the effectiveness of the relevant rules for the new funding of kindergarten, primary and secondary schools begins from 1 September, and it is clear that at this point in time, many school directors do not know how the funding will ultimately continue. I would like to comment on the new funding of kindergarten, primary and secondary schools in particular because of what has been said here from the mouth of the petitioner. Kindergarten, elementary and secondary schools are currently funded by the fact that we do not have any assurance in terms of the size of the budget, as we will approve it here as Members, Members in the Chamber of Deputies, that these funds will also go to the same extent to children in all regions in the Czech Republic. And I think this is wrong. It is also wrong that we do not have certainty as legislators, or those who approve the state budget, that teachers' salaries will be increased, teachers of our schools in the same way as the legislator expects, nor do we have confidence in the wages of non-teaching workers. Thus, the existing funding system does not respond in any way to the structure of schools in one or another region. The result is, of course, unfair funding for schools, unpredictable. School heads cannot plan to develop their pedagogical teams, nor do they have a clear transparent rule of how much funding they receive year after year to improve education in schools. From my point of view, as Mr Vondrák proposed through the President to address the current situation with his amendment, that is, it is a sort of displacement in particular of the transitional provisions of the reform of regional education funding in order to make, say, a more comfortable situation for the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in the implementation of the reform, so this amendment is extremely acceptable. [[11.10 hours]] In any case, in my view, we cannot put schools into doubt that for the next two years, that is the second amendment, the reform is postponed. This would be very irresponsible, and as I have the opportunity to talk to schools and school heads, it would not be welcome from the ground either. I would like to remind you that, in the previous discussion here, we have a completely different law, where there has been an attempt to postpone the reform of school financing by ten years, informed Members and Members of the opposition across and mostly from all the parties to the school associations, but also from the Union of Towns and Municipalities and Associations of Local Authorities. In particular, the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities, in my opinion, is a voice that we should hear in the case of new funding for education, if we really care about the education of our children in the future. So I am summing up for myself - albeit with my teeth clenched, but nevertheless I will support Mr Vondrák's amendment. The second issue is so called. compulsory pre-school education. I'll be more brief here. I believe that this change occurred only a year ago and that we should not make rapid judgments as legislators and give time to how this pre-school education will improve or not improve the success of children's education in the course of compulsory schooling. That is why, in my opinion, it is also appropriate to leave this adjustment. With regard to the abolition of the guarantee for children under three years of age in kindergartens from 2020, I just want to reiterate that this House, if it decides to abolish this guarantee, decides in particular that the compulsory capacity of kindergartens for the number of children corresponding to these population years will not be sufficient for pre-school education for children under three years of age. What sounds here from most previous speakers in all readings, i.e. the existing non-compliant conditions for the education of children under three years of age in kindergartens, so this is certainly true, it is true and must be changed and improved. I just want to stress that this vote that we have voted to abolish the guarantee of places will not shift the situation. Therefore, I would like to ask you to support the amendments which, on the one hand, impose an obligation on the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to adjust the conditions for the education of children under the age of three so that we can really guarantee, not only promise, but guarantee to kindergarten teachers that, if such children, I note, after this change voluntarily within the kindergarten, they are and are educated, so that these conditions can also be clearly established and the kindergarten teachers can reach them and force them. Because if we don't do anything, it won't happen. And the current number is about 50 thousand. children under the age of three will not be sure that these conditions will also be improved in kindergarten schools, and in particular the teacher. We last tabled an amendment which was an attempt, say, to address children under three years of age in a positive way and to divide it between kindergarten and children's groups and to offer municipalities and cities for the education of children under three years of age the possibility of setting up children's groups, possibly. the conclusion of contracts with the set-up of these children's groups. I also recommend this amendment to your attention because I think it is fair to give not only municipalities, cities, but also, of course, parents how to provide pre-school care for their children. Furthermore, I will not talk, and I will ask you to agree with Amendments C1, C2 and C3, these are the amendments that should guarantee nursery schools the conditions for training children under the age of three, where they will also voluntarily continue to educate themselves, or allow municipalities and cities to conclude contracts for children under the age of three, also with children's groups. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u11	Thank you, too, and I have some factual points here. Mr Klaus is reporting with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u12	I'm just gonna react briefly. Those two years are there because the law on the reform of funding is pasculi. paradoxically, I agree with the criticism of the current state where the regions cannibalize on public funds and do not deliver them to schools transparently and similarly. So I'm looking for a meaningful solution to improve this situation. I'm just repeatedly pointing out that the Act adopted on the reform will not comply with any of this. It brings chaos, brings an increase in the funds, does not deliver them so that teachers have more money, nor will it guarantee it. That it is pasquil, it is proof of this - for the law is long overdue, it could have been launched from September 1st. So the ministry itself decided that it had to move away. And that's very symptomatic. Because if we have a reasonable law, which was, like, the law that was here this morning, about the constructions, it's approved directly. Whereas when such laws are hidden in themselves by great question marks and bureaucracy, evil and so on, they are often supplied by the salami method several times with some time-limit to make it easier to pass through and those Members have noticed less. So I'm going to react one more time, and I'm going to board. Indeed, if you mean it with Czech education responsibly, let us accept with the new Ministry rational reform of funding to serve schools, and let us not get into the state where the previous Ministry of Education has put it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u13	I also thank you for the time being and now, with Mr Výborný in fact, Mrs Valachová will prepare herself. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I wanted to respond to my colleague Valachová through you. About the matter, the duty or the guarantee of receiving children under the age of three. I completely disagree with the argument that if we do not approve of this, we will prevent capacity-refueling. That's not true. If an amendment to abolish the guarantee is approved, it is nothing about whether the founders are to finish or not to build the capacity of kindergarten schools, but it is about making it clear that we are defining clearly what pre-school education is, and that there will also be a clear statement that the directors, in turn, will not be faced with a often unsolvable situation that they will have to accept children under three years of age. On the other hand, the adjustment will not prevent them from doing so if they want to do so and it will be possible for operational capacity reasons for children under the age of three to accept. But to do so, there is no legal need to push the founder to complete the capacity, which maybe would not even be used afterwards. I think that we need to take a different path, and I certainly support the accompanying resolution, as proposed by the rapporteur, Bartoň, to prepare for institutionalised children's groups to be financed from the state budget after 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u15	Thank you, too, and now, please, Mrs Valachová. Mrs Černochová will be ready. Two minutes, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have taken this contribution so that we are actually going to the final vote. However, you will understand that I can respond on the basis of Mr Klaus' speech through you, Mr President. I really ask that he stop insulting all those involved in preparing changes to the new financing of regional education during the previous term of office. There was a broad technical consensus, there was a broad political consensus. The two chambers of Parliament have voted for these changes across the political spectrum, with the exception, I accept that, the Civil Democratic Parties. And I don't think it's fair for this will to be majority, across the political spectrum, professional, supported by the Union of Cities and the Association of Local Authorities, which bring together the vast majority of our municipalities and cities and which changes in school funding defend so that this joint work is insulted in this way. I really ask that we be factual in this regard. We may have different views, but let us not make such quick judgments when it comes to work that has cost so much effort and is so widely supported. It's not fair. [[11.20 hours]] Then another comment on some of the malice that, if there are such changes, that they are therefore, let's say, pushed aside, that is, perhaps, efficiency is meant by your means, Mr President, Mr Klaus, for a later period. Let's not have the public here either, let's not manipulate. [[President: Time, Madame.]] Every reasonable person knows that if the funding of thousands of schools changes, efficiency cannot occur sooner than a year, only because of the number of players involved, and IT systems have to be conquered. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u17	Thank you. Please, Mrs Černochová, with a factual remark, Mr Stanjura will be prepared, then Mr Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. If Mrs Valachová had been fair to you, she would have apologized to the teachers at kindergarten. Because with one breath, he's making excuses here, or he's arguing that my colleague Klaus here said something, even though the opinions of the experts were different. Exactly in the case of the kindergarten and the two-year-old children of the Union of Cities and Communities, expert groups within the educational councils, psychologists, psychiatrists, child psychologists, they all criticized the proposal of former Minister Valachová. So, on the one hand, he's calling for a colleague of Klaus to be fér, but he's not fair on his own? On the contrary, I would expect Secretary Valachová to apologize to all of us. They will also apologize to you from the government coalition, the then government coalition, who were bound by the coalition treaty to vote for this nonsense. Colleagues and colleagues, today we have a unique opportunity to change this, to restore the situation to its effectiveness, the validity of this law, and to remedy the damage caused by former Minister Valachová. Let's do that. And I'd just like to say that they're not just children's groups, they're a nursery. Prague 2 operates a nursery for several decades, we even build a new nursery. So, Mrs Valachová, through the Vice-President, do not break into the rights of the mayors, into the rights of the authorities to determine their needs as founders according to what they have in the village and act accordingly. I think that people always appreciate this in the context of municipal elections, and that is why mayors are elected, who are trying to accommodate all the groups. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u19	Thank you. Now, Mr Stanjura, then Mr Klaus, then Mrs Valachová, Mrs Hyťhová and Mr Kozlová. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u20	Thank you for the floor. I see that we want to respond to similar words by Mrs Valachová. Let me just remind you that this year there are municipal elections, and today we have a chance to help new or old-fashioned representatives, new or old-fashioned mayors, so that both of the senseless responsibilities imposed by the former government coalition can be lifted. And it is fair to say that we citizens' Democrats have been pointing this out since the beginning of the legislative process in the last parliamentary term, and we have also not supported this law. Here you can see when the neo-Marxist view of the world confronts reality. Logically, real life and reality wins. Not planners' dreams, obsessed with 100 percent, 100 percent, 100 percent. Even five-year-olds attend nursery schools are extremely high, but some planners want to have 10,0 percent of the children in that box. Trust your parents, they know what they want best. Trust our authorities, they themselves know what kindergartens establish, what capacity they have, what services they offer to parents in their territories. First of all. Two. Such a rapid change in regional education funding, and I agree that this is a complicated matter, has also been prepared very quickly. She was ready very quickly, she was pushed for strength. And once again, real life has shown that it wasn't prepared well, at least from a time point of view. And instead of having a detailed, patient debate on how to do this, because such an intervention will affect the level of regional education for many years in advance, and for politically prestigious reasons the law was passed in the form in which it was, and it is a good thing that we are returning to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u21	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Before I give the floor to Mr Klaus, I will read some apologies. Mrs Levová apologizes to us by the end of the day for health reasons, Mr Stropnickýý from today's meeting for all reasons of work and Mr Janulík between 11.30 and 14.00. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u22	Thank you. I would like to say, through the President - Madam, do not lie. I wasn't insulting anyone. According to the tape screen, even everyone here who heard me, you've seen that I've been very helpful, I've appreciated the activity of all the Members, and I haven't even read part of my proposal because I'm trying to get a consensus. Just because I'm criticizing something, that the reform of funding is pasculi, doesn't mean I'm insulting someone. The work of these people is OK, but maybe inclusion is also pasculi and people have been working on it for hours and hours, the activists, even the poor officials who had to implement it, the nonsense, into legislation. This argument is completely odd. I wasn't insulting anyone, but I'm defending the teacher from getting caught up in any more nonsense that you forcefully enforced in the last parliamentary term. And frankly, I wonder, and I don't understand why you personally and constantly relate to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u23	Thank you and please Mrs Valachová, who will respond with a factual point. I will just correct that Mrs Levová is apologizing for health reasons. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u24	By your means, Mr Klaus. On the contrary, I speak very factually, and I have already appreciated a substantive debate across the political spectrum about this amendment in previous readings. I have expressed myself - by your means - to Mr Klaus, just as far as the new funding of schools is concerned. He basically repeated what he said. I can only repeat that it is not an individual's work, it is a long-term work of all where there was professional agreement, political agreement. Let him keep his point of view, but he will stop this broad technical agreement, political agreement, as well as the consensus of the Union of Towns and the Association of Local Authorities on new funding and contrary to the delays of this matter as his own opinion, but he does not pretend that there may have been any reason, a pasquilla and something that no one wanted. That's all. As for - through you - Jana Černochová's remarks, I have explained and pointed out during the past readings how the guarantee came into the law. She's made a proposal. That wasn't a government proposal. It wasn't my government proposal. And, yes, I've come to know you through defending this novel after the president's veto, that's true. I defended this amendment after the veto of the President of the Republic and reached a revote to the veto of the President of the Republic. That is true, but believe me, by your means, my fellow Member, that I did so because of the preservation of the guarantee of places for children of four years and three years, as I suggested. And no one's suggesting this cancellation, it's something that parents appreciate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u25	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mrs Hyťhová, with a factual point, Mrs Kozlová, Mr Rais, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, Mrs Černochová will follow. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u26	I would like to respond to Mrs Valachová. I have to admit, Mr Klaus, since I was sitting here, not insulting anyone, merely gave his opinion on the reform of school financing. I have to share his opinion. We are therefore only in favour of deferment by a year, because I believe that two years is a long time, but we will still vote in favour. I would also like to draw Mrs Valachová's attention to the fact that she should have made a mistake herself, and she should have done that a long time ago. I haven't sat here in the last parliamentary term and I haven't been and voted for any amendment to the school law, but since I've been a Member, I've had countless emails and requests to vote for Mr Klaus's amendment, not to be a compulsory kindergarten for children from the age of two. And they begged me, they literally begged me to vote for it, that they had problems with it, that they didn't agree with it, and so on. So I would like to ask Mrs Valachová to acknowledge this and not to speak to Mr Klaus here, for example, when she expresses her opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u27	Thank you, too. Please, Mrs Kozlová. I will just note that Mrs Černochová has withdrawn her point of order. Two minutes, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u28	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I just have a little reminder, but not at all irrelevant, to the children's groups. We are concerned that if children's groups fall into the law, their funding by the European Union will cease. It would probably mean that from 1. 1. 2019 would no longer be financed by the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u29	Thank you, too. Mr. Rais, please. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will be ready, followed by Mr Bláha and Mrs Valachová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u30	Have a good day. I'd go back to what my colleague Kubíček said this morning. The third reading is not for us to overthink our opinions here, but for the procedure to be approved. Plus, I'd add to that, and I'm sorry that one side of this game, I'm not gonna show you, just look at the committee's participation, that we could all play this on the committee if those people went there. But unfortunately, they don't. Let the ping-pong players see who's involved. The shot goose might call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u31	I also thank and please Mrs Gajdůšková, Mr Bláha Jiří will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u32	Hello, Mr President, Members, just two short sentences. One. This does not mean that we are introducing compulsory attendance for two-year-olds. The proposal is to ensure the conditions for parents to go to kindergarten if they want. Note two. We're not. It's not what Mr Stanjura said. Through the President, Mr President Stanjur, you know, the neoliberal concept has also not proved to be quite good. A plan isn't a dirty word. And you're under this neoliberal concept and refusing to plan any vision and anything like that have managed to bring this country down almost to the bottom twice economically. And it was a social democracy that pulled that country out. You can think what you want about it, the facts are clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u33	Thank you. Now, please, Mr Bláha. Mrs Valachová will be ready, then Mr Výborný, Mr Stanjura, Mr Plzák. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, when you decide to discuss the subject here, please read this carefully and do not say the nonsense you are presenting here, about the fact that there will be a mandatory attendance in kindergarten from the age of two. That's not what this is about. I'm here as a businessman, and I don't want to talk about your kindergartens, but it's definitely a big problem for businessmen that employees have nowhere to put their children when they decide to go to work, and of course, nowadays, when there's no work force, when we're dealing with whether or not an employee gets into work, it would be very beneficial if parents could put a child somewhere from two years ago. And we should work together to help how we do it. But if you're discussing something you don't know about, it's pointless for us to meet here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u35	Thank you, too, and please, Mrs Valachová. Mr. Výborný will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u36	Mr President, my colleague, Mrs Hyťhová, although my previous speaker has already responded to this. Really no obligation for children from the age of two to go to kindergarten -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u37	I will interrupt you and ask for more peace in the House. I think our noise levels are rising disproportionately. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u38	I'll just follow up on my previous speaker. Indeed, there is no obligation for children to go to kindergarten from two years of age.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u39	Thank you. Please, Mr. Výborný. Mr Stanjura will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your way to Mr. Rais. Don't be mad at me, even a third reading is for us to have a debate on this proposal, whatever it is, here. Mr. Colleague, I, as an educator, as the school head, think I am competent to comment on the draft amendment to the school law. I am not a member of the school committee, I am a member of two committees, five subcommittees, three committees, and don't be angry, I really do not have the time or other capacity to have a debate on the school committee. And that's what the House is for, and if it's not obvious, then we're not really here at the treadmill to rush and cut the law like we did at the factory. We are really on Parliament's soil here, and there is no way we can deny debate and debate over anything. No matter whether I'm a baker, a teacher or a doctor. Yes, we all went to school, so I guess we have some competence, maybe we feel the need to express ourselves, so let's just hear those opinions and then we'll make some decisions. And what my colleague Bláha said. I understand you don't have enough labour, I know what the situation in the labour market is. On the other hand, these things have a completely different connection. It is a question of the nature of preschool education, the question of educational, educational, and not only that parents need to put their children away somewhere in quotation marks. Please, the child is entitled to be raised in the family, which is why the proposal that was here seems completely inappropriate to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u41	Thank you, too. And, as I understand it, President Stanjura withdrew his point of order, so Mr Plzák follows, then Mr Bartoň, Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Bláha. Mr. Plzák, please. Two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I disagree with what my previous speaker said. We argued about this several times in the last parliamentary term. And the Rules of Procedure is the law, and if we don't like it, let's change it. Let's change it and let's have such a wide discussion in that third reading. There is an exhaustive list of what is being discussed at third reading. And while I will be very tolerant and say yes, this concerns the amendments, there has been a debate here on completely different ideological matters, and who has messed up what, etc. And I really don't think that until that third reading, don't be mad at me, it doesn't. I will sit here for six hours at second reading and listen to what is said here, but simply the time for the third reading is limited only to Wednesdays and Fridays for certain hours, and therefore should be followed by the Rules of Procedure. And if you really feel like we should talk about everything in the third reading, let's change that, the law, come up with that proposal, and we can talk about it. But the rules of procedure are the law and should not be broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u43	I would like to point out that there is a debate at the third reading in which only defined matters can be proposed, but this does not mean that there is no way to talk about the law as a whole. And now, please, Mr Bartona, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u44	Thank you for the floor. I, through Mr President, would respond to Mr Bláha. Indeed, it was never said that two-year-olds would have a pre-school obligation. However, I will also respond to his statement on companies, and for that reason I firmly hope that he will vote in favour of the accompanying resolution that I have proposed. These are children's groups, which aim not for preschool education, but for child care. And it is companies that can set up children's groups for their employees. And it is companies that, if, after 2020 when European money ends, they have any guarantees from the state at least co-financing this child group, so companies will establish and run children's groups and thus take care of the children of their employees, these employees can return to work and be more economically beneficial than on parental leave. This is about not starting to address this issue until 2020, when it will be too late, but starting to address this issue now. I therefore hope that you will also vote in favour of the accompanying resolution on children's groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u45	Thank you, too. And now I ask Mr Bláh, Mr Bláha, to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u46	I would very much like if we are meeting here if we want to discuss and speak, listen to each other and really read the subject we want to discuss, so that we don't say things here that are completely different than what they are actually described or what we are discussing. Because we're stalling each other. Personally, I would be in favour of always meeting at round tables and elsewhere outside the House on this discussion, so that only the arguments that we agree on or do not agree on will really be heard here. Because what's happening here is sometimes funny. And that there are things here that aren't de facto contained anywhere, i.e. Exactly that it's an obligation to put children in kindergartens from the age of two, that we're dealing with this - it's not true. So why are we even talking about this? It's pointless. As far as companies are concerned. I was interested, and it really wants to change the whole system, that is. Take it, sit at the table and tell us which way we're going. What we're creating here is just an inconspicuous blur of things that don't work. So I suggest we meet on this subject. I'll tell you what the problem is if you're going to set up a kindergarten as a company, what you have to keep, that the first is a fire bill that throws everything off your desk. So if there's anything you want to discuss, you should be interested in it, then let's meet up, then we'll come over here and sort it out in maybe 20 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u47	Thank you, too. Your factual point raised two further factual points, Mr Kalousek and Mrs Pekarová. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Bláha certainly has the right to speak to the draft and to say anything, but I would like to ask Mr Bláha not to train us here, what we may or must not say, what we should or should not study and how we should express ourselves. I, Mr. Ambassador, can have my opinion on the way you perform, the course and the results of your work, but I'm keeping it to myself. Better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u49	Thank you for your time, and please, Mrs Pekarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. So the debate has started again and has often moved in a completely different direction, but I would like to draw attention to the amendments, which, what many of you have mentioned and addressed here, really aim to resolve. This concerns the two-year-old children in kindergartens and the possibility for municipalities to replace the obligation and guarantee by the children's groups and the use of these forms presented by Mrs Valachová. And even if the opinions may be different to whether children are supposed to be better off with their mommy, daddy or just someone close at home or if they have a chance to be in a collective establishment within three years, I think that the freedom of choice of individual parents should be made possible. The state should support that freedom of choice to be real. To me, it seems like a great compromise that actually arose here, which we can approve. And I would like to express my support for this amendment, because I think that then we will no longer have to deal with what is appropriate anymore, it is not appropriate if we look at this from the point of view of the parents - so that they can choose. So it is not a guarantee as it has been in the present law, but it is an opportunity for the community to provide the service, let's say in a better way for me as it is in the children's group, so I think it is all the best for everyone involved. And I would really like to get this discussion back in that direction from the labels on neo-marxism, neo-liberalism, etc. to the point, because I think that's what this is all about in particular.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u51	Thank you. And now we are going back to the debate. I beg Mr Čižinský, Mr Juránek will prepare himself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u52	Thank you for the floor. Let me just briefly remind you what's going on with the D1 amendment. The point is, he's Pepíček and Mařenka. Pepíček was born in June, Mařenka in September. And if the pedagogical-psychological counseling department believes that Pepíček and Mařenka should take advantage of the prep class of primary school, then Pepíček can, because he will get a delay, and Mařenka cannot, because she will not get a delay because she was not six years old. The amendment compares it and both Pepíček and Mařenka, if the pedagogical-psychological counseling will think it's good for them, she will be able to get into the preparatory class of primary school. Support, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u53	Thank you, too. Please, Mr Juránek, Mrs Kozlová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u54	Thank you. Mr President, Ministers, Madam Secretary, colleagues, I am glad that I have come to the floor. I certainly don't want to use those two-minute inputs knowingly to jump in here and argue with each other, which is why I would like to be completely substantive in this matter. I want to comply with the Rules of Procedure to make a direct statement on the proposals that are here. However, there is one thing I want to say a little bit wider about, and I want to start with those specific points. So here's the funding point. I can assure you that funding, not even as it was resolved in the previous law, nor as it is currently being dealt with, is not a solution in education and is one of the greatest tasks of the Ministry of Education. That's what I'm talking to the Minister. Regional education has not been completed since the creation of regions. I'm just stressing one thing - it's very well to postpone this. And that's why I'm going to support the delay in funding as part of this proposal. However, this will not be resolved, but I would like to say that the situation before the adoption of the law was worse. That means even the bad law that's being criticized here has gone in the right direction. The second thing I want to talk about is two-year-olds in kindergarten. Mother schools are neither prepared nor equipped and will never be ready for two-year-olds. If some individual buildings do so, if individual teams are able to do so, the solution, as proposed in this change, to accept them voluntarily, is the best possible solution. Here I will just point out that this change has passed in the Senate, because the last law has also provided a number of positive things, but I have also personally pointed out that this matter will soon have to be amended. And the majority opinion in the Senate was that this matter does not belong there. [[11.50 hours]] However, the law needed to be passed quickly at that time and I will say immediately why. That's the thing, the last thing I'm gonna talk about is why I'm not gonna support the children's issue, that is, extending their schooling by one year, even though there are high percentages. It was said here once that 94 percent of children already go to kindergartens, in the second case 96.4%. This is not a significant difference for me, but the important difference is that this matter has come into the law for some pressure from the European Union, here I ask you to follow it in the past, for the solution of the very group, which belongs to 6 or 3.6 percent, whether we use any number. And here I am just pointing out that if we want to address this problem so that attendance is not mandatory, there is a very important element that we will have to resolve the very point of the European Union, on the basis of which we are threatened with sanctions, and that this law, though imperfectly, has resolved. [[There's a lot of noise and bad hearing in the room!]] Therefore, I summarize that financing and delaying it - for. As regards the abolition of compulsory admission of children from the age of two, also for how these things are here. As far as pre-school education is concerned, its change - against it, because the matter still needs to be resolved with regard to other matters. Thank you for your attention, although I have not even heard myself at times, but thank you for listening to me at least some of you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u55	Thank you. I was listening. Now, please, Mrs Kozlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u56	I thank the President for the floor. I would just like to support the proposals F1 and F2 very briefly. They concern that we propose a total abolition of the pre-school education obligation between the fifth and sixth years. I would like to stress that for 90 percent of the population, nothing has really changed since the introduction of this area obligation. The vast majority of families enjoyed the right to send children to school without legal obligation. The purpose of the flat obligation was to get children into preschools from excluded localities, which are less than 2 per cent. According to an investigation by the Czech School Inspectorate, this objective was not met - unfortunately. This is therefore one of the reasons why we want to abolish the extended obligation before the sixth year of the child. However, the proposal does not disturb the compulsory pre-school institute entirely. He keeps it for the children with a delay, which will move to the possibility of entering school attendance without disability, which means they will be able to attend the preparatory classes at school. This delay, which has been recommended for them, will be an advantage for them. And then I'd like to support prints 6 and 7. There is individual education. The current legislation requires parents to state the reasons why individual training should be allowed. This is what we want to change, and we propose that in this situation, the Director, who decides who will continue to receive the deferral and who will not receive it, in his opinion, should only justify the non-approval of individual training in such a way that this justification appears in the documentation. The aim is that the reasons for rejecting individual education are public on an official basis and can continue to serve as part of the feedback in the management of the school system, the allocation of the necessary finances and the like. One more technical thing. I would like to withdraw our proposal F3 and F5 because, following consultations with the Ministry of Education, we have come to the conclusion that it has not fulfilled its purpose, because, according to this proposal, pre-school education should be provided for children who temporarily live with their parents abroad. As we have learned, it would be better to withdraw this proposal, which is why I am doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u57	Thank you, too. [[There's noise in the hall!]] We will, of course, have to vote on the withdrawal of the proposal because it is proposed in the third reading. I'm gonna read some apologies. Mrs Jana Vildumetzová apologizes to us from today's meeting to the end for work reasons and apologises to us for operational reasons for negotiations between 12 and 13 o'clock by President Bartošek. Thank you. [[Question the Minister of Education.]] I have not yet finished the debate, so the Minister wants to have priority rights for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u58	Mr President, honourable Members, let me once again comment on the proposal under discussion and simply summarize it. As regards the admission of two-year-olds to kindergartens, and perhaps a clear situation, because there was quite a broad debate. The opinion of the Ministry of Education was neutral. And really, let's talk about the obligation to accept children from two years of age from 2020 to kindergarten schools, or that this obligation will not be there, let's also talk about the role of children's groups, but let's not make changes quickly. This means that the role of children's groups is certainly important, but for the moment the position on the two-year-olds is that they should leave the law - this formulation should disappear from it. To the obligation of pre-school education, here we disagree with many of you, I believe that after the first year, although there are some data, the instrument needs to be specified, tried and we need to have data not after eight months, or at this time after the first year, but also to discuss whether these data are instruments other than repealing this obligation by law, how to meet this good obligation. This has to do with pre-school education, but we have already said that she is quite odd on this matter. In addition to Mr Klaus' original proposal, there is, of course, an amendment concerning the amendment to regional education funding, and here I declare that the position of the Ministry of Education is to support the annual delay. When we started between school directors, it's an incentive from the field, and I think it can clearly benefit the whole process. This means, in relation to the procedure that will follow, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports supports points A1, A2. MŠMT does not recommend point A3. As regards the B1 vote, the MŠMT opinion is positive. The opinion of MŠMT and MŠMT are not recommended for other proposed points. Thank you. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u59	Thank you, too. Mr Ferjenčík has yet to sign up for the debate. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. I see that we've been added here, which is a good thing, but I'd like us to maintain the level of noise that's appropriate for the negotiations. Please, Mr. Ambassador, if that's enough for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u60	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the last time I wanted to ask for support in this debate is, say, a compromise version of compulsory pre-school attendance, namely Amendment F6, F7, which simplifies the possibility of individual education. I spent quite a lot of time attending schools in my country, not just schools, but kindergartens. And kindergarten principals all agree that compulsory pre-school attendance makes their lives extremely difficult. They must be prepared to accept pupils who do not report at all, do not communicate with them, measures simply do not work well. I understand that the Ministry of Education defends the status quo, but unfortunately the bureaucracy it has brought to kindergarten is considerable, and the bureaucracy it has brought to parents is also significant - completely unnecessary written apology and other things. However, I see that there is, unfortunately, no will to support our changeling, which is only introduced since the age of six and not since the age of five, but if you think about it at least a little bit, try to at least support the mitigation of the rules for individual teaching. [[12.00 hours]] I would also like to ask you to support my colleague Čižinský's amendment, which has its logic in particular for smaller schools in smaller municipalities, so that they can establish the preparatory classes at all, as well as support for the accompanying resolution, which will support children's groups for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u61	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the debate. I'm asking the plaintiff's final words. Is there an interest in the final word? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u62	I will no longer delay, just thank the members of the school committee across the political spectrum for standing up for me here in the debate, and, of course, for the members of my club, and I wish you a happy vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u63	Thank you. Is the final word also in the case of the rapporteur? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u64	Thank you. In the course of the debate, I have noted the petitioner's proposal to withdraw Amendment F3 and Amendment F5, which we should vote on at the beginning, and I further state that, at the request of the legislative department, I will then propose to amend the procedure set out in the resolution from the Guarantee Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u65	Thank you. We have finished the debate. The rapporteur may stay at the speaker's desk because we will proceed to the vote on amendments. So I ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to introduce us first to the voting procedure, and we really must also deal with the proposal to withdraw two amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u66	The guarantee committee has proposed the procedure in order: 1. Proposals F1, F2 by Mrs Kozlová. If approved, the non-voting A1, points 1 and 2. Then there are two variants. Option 1. If F1, F2 is approved, then it is proposed to vote on Amendment A1, points 3 to 8, and subsequently, regardless of the outcome, C4, E1, E2, F4 and F5, paragraphs 1 and 2. Variant 2. If F1 and F2 are not approved, then vote A1 as a whole, and then, regardless of the result, C4, E1 plus E2, F4 and F5 and points 1 and 2. 3. - A2. 4. - A3. 5. - B1. 6. - C1, C2 together. 7. - C3. 8. - C5, C6, C7 together. 9. - D1. 10. - F3. Consequently, regardless of the outcome, point 3 of F5 is unvoted unless we have previously approved these amendments to be eliminated. 11. - F6, F7. 12. - here is G, the accompanying resolution. 13. - legislative technical amendments which may result from amendments. And 14. - vote the law as a whole. As I said in the general debate, at the request of the legislative department, I propose that the procedure be corrected and that point G, which is the 12th accompanying resolution, be voted after the vote of the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u67	Yes, I will just ask whether it is clear what proposal the rapporteur has made here, and whether we can proceed to the vote on the procedure as proposed, including the adjustment that we will vote on the accompanying resolution only after we agree on the bill as a whole. It's clear to everyone. So I'm gonna go with the check-out request. I ask everyone to sign up with their voting cards. Ladies and gentlemen, but we will not vote on the procedure at this time, we will first vote on the proposal to withdraw two amendments, as was said in the debate. I ask the rapporteur to remind us of the two proposals that we will now vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u68	These are amendments F3 and F5, in other words, there would be no vote on paragraph 10 in the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u69	However, before we vote on the procedure, we must agree to exclude these proposals. I recommend that we decide on them by one vote, unless there is an objection. There's no objection, so I'm taking the vote. Who's in favour of eliminating these points? Who's against it? Voting number 84. 154 Members registered, for 154, against no one. We've disabled the points. We will now vote on the procedure, as the rapporteur has said. I'm asking if we need to repeat the procedure one more time, or we can vote. It's not necessary. We will vote on the proposed procedure. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 85. 156 Members are registered, for 154, against no one. We have approved the procedure and I ask the rapporteur to show us the various amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u70	Thank you. Again, I will briefly summarize what the amendment is about. We will be the first to vote on the proposal F1 and F2. This is Mrs Kozlová's amendment, which retains the status of compulsory schooling, however, for children up to six years old, i.e. for children who delay compulsory schooling. I'll just supplement the position of the guarantee committee. The guarantee committee recommends rejecting it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u71	Thank you. The plaintiff's position?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u72	We support, these are actually the five-year-olds, the abolition of compulsory nursery in a milder form. Agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u73	Thank you. I would just ask both the rapporteur and the appellant to always make it clear whether the position is recommendable or not, without further comments. Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 86. Registered 156 Members, for 64, versus 81. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u74	Then variant 2 will be voted on. A1 will be voted as a whole. This is Mr Rais's amendment. It leaves compulsory school attendance for children from the age of five, leaves free of charge for this compulsory schooling, leaves the original text, including individual education. The guarantee committee recommends approval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u75	The plaintiff? [[I recommend it.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 87, there are 156 Members, for 120, against 25. This amendment was adopted. We can proceed to another amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u76	We will then vote on Amendment A2 of Mr Rais. This is a supplement to the original amendment that pre-school education is organized for children from 3 to 6 years of age with the possibility to organize it from 2 years of age. This is the original text that was in force before the amendment that we are discussing, that is, before it starts to apply from 2020, it is from 2 years old.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u77	Opinion, please? [[The guarantee committee recommends approval.]] Yes. Designer? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 88, 156 Members registered, for 147, versus 1. The motion was accepted. Another amendment - A3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u78	The following is Amendment A3 by Mr Klaus, which reduces the validity of the law in the area of regional education funding by two years. The guarantee committee recommends rejecting it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u79	The plaintiff? [[I suggest you approve. Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 89, 156 Members signed in, for 41, versus 106. The motion was not accepted. We can move on to another amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u80	The following is Amendment B1 by Mr Vondrák, which moves the transitional provisions in the area of reform of regional education funding by one year. The guarantee committee recommends approval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u81	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 90, 156 Members signed in, for 151, against no one. The motion was accepted. Let us approach another amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u82	The following is Amendment C1, C2 by Mrs Valachová... or Gajdůšková, which complements the authorisation to lay down pre-school education conditions for children under the age of three. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee - The Committee recommends rejecting it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u83	The plaintiff? [[Overruled.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 91, 156 Members signed in, for 7, against 116. This amendment was not adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u84	The following is Amendment C3 - the possibility for the municipality to fulfil the obligation for the education of children under three years of age through children's groups. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee - The Committee recommends rejecting it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u85	The plaintiff? [[Overruled.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 92, 156 Members registered, for 21, against 101. This amendment was not adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u86	The following is Amendment C5, C6, C7 by Mrs Valachová, who talks about the momentum, where children have priority to be admitted to kindergarten from the age of two, which will be three years by the end of the year. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee - The Committee recommends rejecting it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u87	Thank you. The plaintiff? [[Overruled.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 93, 156 Members signed in, for 11, against 118. This amendment was also rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u88	The following is Amendment D1 by Mr Čižinský - to extend the preparatory classes and the children not only with the delay of compulsory schooling. The Committee has not delivered an opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u89	The plaintiff? [[Okay.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 94, 156 Members registered, for 76, against 74. The motion was not accepted. We will move on to the next amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u90	The following is Amendment F6 and F7 by Mrs Kozlová - simplification of individual education. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee - The Committee recommends rejecting it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u91	The plaintiff? [[Overruled.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 95, 156 Members present, for 31, against 118. This amendment was not adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u92	Given that we will only vote after the law as a whole, the approval of the possibility of legislative technical amendments, which may result from the amendments adopted, is followed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u93	And are there such legislative technical adjustments that we can vote on them? I didn't notice them, but maybe that's what they're gonna be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u94	[[After consulting the legislative department.]] Yes, they are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u95	But will it be clear to all Members and Members what will we vote on if we vote on this general level?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u96	We will vote on the fact that the legislative department, given that there is twice an amendment in Article 3, so it needs to be put together to make sense. These are formal adjustments, not substantive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u97	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u98	Don't let the rapporteur get mad at me, we can't pass the law with someone working him out! No, you don't! I can't believe it's not ready for us to know about this. I do not understand that this was not the first vote that might be conditional on whether amendments pass or fail, but it is not possible for the House to pass the law and at the same time say: we are imposing a legislative department to complete it! That's really not possible!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u99	The rapporteur. I can give the floor now only to those who have priority rights. President Kalousek, may speak with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u100	I mostly agree with President Stanjura in these procedural matters. But now I really don't think so. Because what we're going to vote on isn't the law. It's just a legislative formulation of what we've already approved. It's just that in the legislative process, unfortunately, sometimes it's the way to work. There's nothing against it, and I think we can vote on it with a calm conscience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u101	Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u102	So I would probably insist on the procedure proposed in the committee, and these legislative technical things are included here as well. I will add that the Committee has recommended the implementation of possible legislative technical adaptations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u103	I can only give my word to those who have priority rights. No one else at the moment. Objection to the vote. Yes. Well, in that case, I can oblige. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for entering into this interesting debate, but I have now found during the back-check of the vote on the 88 vote that I have said no, but I voted clearly in favour. I support the proposal, so I'm wrong about it. I'm asking for an adjustment. I do not insist on a new vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u105	You're not questioning the vote, it's just a tapestry. Yes, thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Deputy Chairman of Kubíček Club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u106	Thank you for the floor. I would ask for a 15-minute recess to actually clarify the individual issues that are not quite clear right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u107	Yes, I'll oblige. First, I will give the floor to President Kalousek, who has applied, and to Vice-President Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u108	Thank you. But I cannot agree either with you putting the vote on the objection, Mr President, because we have approved the procedure. And in the procedure, it's a vote. That means we should have come up with the objection before the procedure vote. It's too late now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u109	Vice-President Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u110	I did not notice that the objection was raised. However, I would like to stand by the fact that we have approved some procedure, which includes approving at the end of the procedure, that legislative technical adjustments will be made which result from the amendments that we will approve and which we will not approve. That's common practice and routine. So I don't know what the problem is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u111	So, after Mr. Stanjura's speech, I'm going to comply with the Yes Club's request and give a 15-minute break. I'm gonna put out a 15-minute break. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u112	Only in response to Vice President Pikal. Well, I don't think that's common practice. If you have a different opinion, then prove it. We've got 15 minutes to show me where else it's usually done. I can be wrong. But I don't remember ever doing that. Of course, that memory doesn't have to be absolute. But when someone claims that this is common practice, they should state when this practice was last applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u113	Thank you. I am now declaring a 15-minute recess for an ANO meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, 15 minutes have passed for a break at the meeting of the MP's club. We will continue our negotiations. I will give the rapporteur the floor. [[Noise in the courtroom.]] I'm asking for peace, because we're in a very difficult situation, so we all know how we're gonna get out of this situation again. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u115	Thank you. Legitimately, the technical amendments that would eventually result from the amendments were incorporated into the procedure because there was no way of knowing how the amendments would turn out and, for example, two amendments included Article 3. So it's just renumbering. However, the legislative department has full jurisdiction over these legislative technical changes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u116	Yes, on this point, I would like to point out that the legislative department is normally making these adjustments on the basis of what the Chamber of Deputies will adopt without being empowered to do so by this decision on subsequent legislative technical adaptations. On the basis of this debate, I propose that we vote to change the procedure and vote on the item of legislative technical regulation, which may result from the amendments adopted. This is my proposal, which I will now put to the vote. So we will vote on a change of procedure that we will not vote on the originally approved proposal for legislative technical amendments. Is that clear, please? It is. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 96, registered by 154 Members, for 136, was against none. So we agreed not to vote on legislative technical amendments. Now, rapporteur, if I have followed this correctly, we are at the moment when we can vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u117	Yes, we will now vote on the law as a whole. Here I will add that the committee recommends the adoption of the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u118	Thank you. I will get acquainted with the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Václav Klaus, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura and others to issue a law amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, as amended, according to the House of Press 61, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 97, registered by 154 Members, for 142. It means that consent has been given to the bill. [[Let's hear it.]] I also ask the rapporteur to present the motion for an accompanying resolution of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u119	Thank you. Accompanying resolution G, House document number 951. I will, if I may, read the accompanying resolution whole. "The Chamber of Deputies notes that children's groups have proved to be a complement to nursery schools in the care of preschool children. [[pursuant to Act No. 247/2014 Coll.]] After 2020, the relevant projects of the operational programme of European funds managed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will end. Therefore, the House calls on the Government to prepare for the inclusion of the existing functional form of children's groups in national funding after 2020. At the same time, it asks the Government to prepare a model of funding for kindergarten schools so that the conditions for the operation of kindergarten schools with conditions for children's groups are aligned.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u120	Thank you. You have heard the text of the accompanying resolution, which I will now vote on. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 98, registered by 153 Members, for 66, against 31. The motion for an accompanying resolution was not adopted. I'm done discussing this point. I thank both the appellant and the rapporteur. With priority rights among the points Mr. Vice-President of the House of Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u121	Hello. I'm sorry to interrupt. I've only got two things for the procedure that's been going through, actually. One is that I would like to apologise to President Stanjur that this is not a common matter, but it is a matter which is normal, for example in the previous press period 873, where there was a large penzion of amendments, a similar authorisation for the legislative department to do these legislative technical ex post corrections without being known at that moment in advance. Of course, it's up to us whether we approve this for some legal certainty or not. I'd be in favor of that, yes, when it's usually done, but we can change the habit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u122	I am sorry, Mr Vice-President, but I have signals from various Members and Members from different sides of the hall that they can't hear you. And I ask everyone else to calm down so that the Vice-President can tell us what he thinks is necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u123	Okay, let's do it again. I apologize to President Stanjur for saying that this is a common matter, that such a matter is approved. However, it's normal. Similarly, during the previous election period in the press 873, legislative technical adaptations were similarly approved at the end without prior knowledge of the material, because there was a large penzion of amendments, for example, more articles of the same number and the like were proposed there, so it was not possible to prepare the material of legislative technical modifications in advance, so it was approved this way and the legislative department was empowered to modify the ex post without knowing exactly what the legislative technical adaptations would look like. After all, that's what's gonna happen now, except we didn't get the union to do it this time. So maybe somebody's gonna miss legal certainty if the legislative department can do it. Of course he can. So that's one thing. Then I would like to get back to the fact that there were proposals during this discussion that there was too much debate. So if you want to limit the debate, the Rules of Procedure allow you to do so. You may propose that we limit the debate and there will be a limited number of speeches. That's what it says. But if we don't do that, let's just make it possible for everyone to make a point of fact about how many times they'll accept it as appropriate, to the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-29-ps2017-016-04-003-060.u124	I thank the Vice-President. Mr Ondřej Polanský apologized from today's meeting between 10.30 and 10.50 due to urgent work obligations, Mr Jiří Běhounek from 13 o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons, and for working reasons from 12 o'clock to the end of the day, Mr Martin Kolovratník apologizes. At this point, I'm initiating a discussion of the point.
