ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u1	103. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 16th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of four replies were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. We will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. The first is an interpellation to the Treasury Secretary. Minister Alena Schillerová replied to Mr Vojtěch Munzar's interview on the issue of publication of information on the errors of Czech Ministry of Finance officials. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 184. I thank and open the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Madam Second Minister, Minister, thank you for the inclusion of this interview. I just wanted to say this briefly - I was wondering how much of the taxpayers' money the state is paying for the error of its tax officials and offices, virtually. specifically for the incorrect or unjustified procedure of the tax administrator. I am more specific about cases where the tax administrator has wrongly ruled and these cases have been decided by the court in favour of the tax entity. I understand that the Ministry of Finance solves a lot of cases of state administration, but they didn't come from the resort, so I really only care about the cases that were originally created in the Ministry of Finance. In the media, I read in February that the errors of their officials for 2017 came to CZK 55 million. I was surprised that the Ministry of Finance asked for an overview of the number of claims and claims for compensation of CZK 80,000. So I asked with confidence that such basic information should have the Ministry of Finance, respectively. The General Financial Directorate is available. After all, this information is important and should be important for good management of the state's finances. What was my surprise when the following answers appeared in the response to my interpelation: The information provided cannot be provided within the time limit set for the interpelation, because the registration does not distinguish the years when the disputes were initiated. The record does not contain complete data on the link to the GFŘ agenda. Or: The total number of legal proceedings initiated will be subsequently found at the Board of Appeal. The processing of this amount of information requires a longer period of time according to the GFŘ communication and cannot be provided within the time limit set for the handling of the interpelation. So the month wasn't enough, I believe that two months have been enough for at least some things, so I believe that the Minister will fill some things in for me or explain the whole situation. Allow me to make a comment. As a businessman might turn out to be saying to the Financial Administration at the control: I don't know, my record doesn't contain it, it can't distinguish my business cases in years, etc., I can't give it to you. I guess a businessman like that would turn out pretty bad. A fine wouldn't miss it, or maybe a warrant would come in, which was the second part of my questions in the interpelation. [[9.10 hours]] We see aggressive and inadequate access to entrepreneurs today and daily. I'll give you a few examples for all the business unions. In the media, for example, they drew attention to the case that took place in Holešov in the Zlín Region. For the fact that the local newsroom did not issue a receipt and did not register the sales for buying a box of Tic Tacs in the amount of 15 crowns, the owner received a fine of 15 grand. Another example, another newsstand, a $25,000 fine. After six checks of electronic records of sales, when everything was okay, the seventh officials finally caught the sales girl and a fine of CZK 25,000 was awarded to the owner for an outstanding receipt of CZK 22. According to what I read, the amount of the fine was justified by a hard-to-believable statement by the officials, if they were actually there for the seventh time that it could be assumed that the businessman would continue to do so, a high penalty should therefore be imposed. We have a number of such examples, and I am putting them here precisely to see the contradiction between the way the Financial Administration is progressing towards entrepreneurs, and the need for an answer to my interpelation, because the reputation of the Ministry of Finance's dealings between entrepreneurs lately is not entirely the best. As I said, aggressive approach, often excessive, often purposeful hardness of the impact of controls, often not using possibilities such as reminders. Therefore, if you wish, Madam Secretary, to increase the credibility of the Financial Administration and the Ministry, it is necessary to treat each other at least as strictly as to entrepreneurs. I repeat my first questions: How many litigations have the Ministry of Finance or the Financial Administration conducted in the last two years, that is to say in 2016 and 2017, in connection with the exercise of its public authority, and how much of this because of the plaintiff's disapproval, the taxpayer's tax, the assessment of the tax or the disapproval of the Financial Administration's procedure in respect of detention and reinsurance orders? And the second question: How many litigations were held in this way by the Ministry of Finance or the Financial Administration, and so they had to bear the costs of the proceedings and then pay the damages? What I was further interested in is how many requests for review will be assessed positively for the taxpayer by the State's appeal authorities, the Board of Appeals, and how many of them will end up in court and how many of them will lose. This is an indicator that can actually show us how high-quality the Board of Appeal works, or whether there is a similar spirit of the entire Financial Administration, as it appears from the outside, that de facto every taxpayer is a nasty suspect. In the second part of my interpelation, I dealt with securing orders. It's a chapter in itself. With this extraordinary device, the bag has been torn apart over the last few years. The freezing order is often a liquidation issue for companies. It follows from the reply to the interpelation that the appeal against 652 to reinsurance cases and orders only 12 of them were decided by the Board of Appeal in favour of tax entities. And how many of them, the other 640, ended up in court, and how many lawsuits did the Ministry lose? Financial administration has been very fond of this instrument, hedge orders for tax obligations, over the last three years, although it has existed in our legal system for many years. From 2013 to 2016, their use increased by more than 300 percent, if we counted correctly. Laws give the authorities extensive powers that they can exercise in checks against entrepreneurs. And as I said, hedge orders have been in Czech law for many years, but what has changed? The government's approach has changed. The state administration has always behaved more or less correctly and modestly. She used her power with the necessary measure, but often with regard to business entities. So she was an entrepreneur's partner. We haven't seen that in years, and this has changed. To make no mistake, I believe that there are a lot of normal officials in the state administration who want to help people. Unfortunately, however, the activities of the resort and direction are always determined by the management of the resort or the management of the General Financial Directorate. Your predecessor in office, Madam Secretary, Ivan Pilný himself admitted that the Financial Administration illegally liquidated six companies. And the survivors, but they were victims of illegal detention orders, were undoubtedly more. I'm only based on media data. At the end of December 2016 The financial administration used a hedge order for Naryner Construction, if I read it correctly, from Zlinsko in the amount of over CZK 2 million. The company almost went bankrupt. Nearly a year later, the Regional Court in Brno annulled the freezing order. Also known is the case of the Přerovský firm FAU, on which the Financial Administration recovered VAT from one store allegedly twice. The freezing order was revoked by the General Court and its decision was confirmed by the Supreme Administrative Court. Another example is Majority Petrol, which was released once again by the Supreme Administrative Court. My point is not to get answers to specific cases, but to show what the public administration approach is and whether there is really no overuse of this extraordinary instrument. The Supreme Court has repeatedly pointed out that it is not enough just to have a reasonable concern, the tax administration must properly justify the freezing orders. How, then, did the Board of Appeal approach individual cases if they were not duly justified? As I say, 652, it's based on your answer, 652 hedge orders, only 12 of which have been decided by the Board of Appeal in favour of those tax entities. What about the 640 others? And then what's the point of such an appeal, and how many of us taxpayers, all of us, are going to cost this abuse? And what measures have been taken in the Ministry, which I am most interested in, so that these misrepresentations may not be repeated? Thank you for your attention and thank you for your answers, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u3	Thank you, too. Other note cards have arrived before we continue the debate. Mr Radek Koten apologizes to us from 11 a.m. to the end of the negotiations for reasons of work, and Mr Adam Kalous apologizes to us in addition between 9 and 13 p.m. due to the hearing. And now, please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u4	Hello, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to Mr Munzar. I will no longer reproduce your precious time, my written reply to which the Member responds, but I will respond directly to his complaints about the answer I sent him in writing. The Member seeks the information which relates primarily to the agenda of compensation for damage caused in the exercise of public authority by decision or by maladministration, although he is now still talking about EET controls, the freezing orders. I'm gonna respond to everything, even though I'm not fully prepared here, I'm wearing it in my head, so I believe I'll answer what I can to your notes. Now I'm focusing on the primary object of his interpellation. This agenda is interpolated in relation to the errors of the Ministry of Finance officials, and further requests information on tax proceedings, in particular detention and detention orders. Information on tax proceedings was provided by the General Financial Directorate and the Member also points out the unwillingness of the Ministry to provide the information requested. It's definitely not choosy. It's simply impossible to provide this information, and I'll explain why. And I've been trying to explain it in the written interpellation. There I stated that compensation for damages under Act No. 82/1998 Coll., i.e. on liability for damage caused in the exercise of public authority by decision or by maladministration, I will also call it "the Damage Compensation Act" which is covered by the Ministry of Finance is not always associated with the Ministry of Finance. There may also be a residual agenda in accordance with § 6 para. 3 of the Damage Compensation Act, responsibility for the Office of the President of the Republic, for the Constitutional Court and also the so-called Simonův doctrine, which means when the Supreme Court makes the Ministry of Finance responsible in cases where it acts more for the reimbursement of responsible sectoral ministries, even if none of them is the Ministry of Finance. You see, the damages are being done with a resort, but the Supreme Court decides that the Ministry of Finance is competent to be actively legitimized in this dispute. And so they are not always caused by the misconduct of an official. [[9.20 hours]] I also tried to explain that the Ministry of Finance has been registering applications and litigations on this agenda since 2011 and has been regularly providing information, they are also on the Ministry of Finance's website. However, these records are kept for the needs of the Ministry of Finance. We have no legal obligation to conduct it for third parties. That's why we're running it for our own good. This means, in a structure and breakdown which does not meet the requirements of, for example, a Member who interpels me but meets the needs of the Ministry of Finance. So we keep the records when I say it, popularly speaking, about living and dead files. About when the proceedings were initiated, on the basis of what stage, whether or not they were completed. Because we have no other obligation, and we are doing this record for ourselves so that we can effectively secure this agenda. So such a procedure cannot be described as unwillingness. I wouldn't begrudge you if we had those records and I didn't want to release them. I can only release what we have at our disposal. We have no legal obligation to keep records otherwise. We have no legal obligation to keep records otherwise. And basically, now that I'm fully in line with your demands, Mr. Ambassador, that means that I have to go from that department, a highly qualified department where high-level lawyers, whose work I value immensely, I would now have to separate at least two people, I consulted them, and have them process it manually for a few months and look for this information in the files. Personally, I don't see this as effective. And I'm offering you a visit to the Treasury Department instead, I'm offering you a visit to the department that's processing it, we'll show you the agenda, we'll show you whatever you're interested in. We'll show you how we keep the records for the Ministry of Finance's needs, and if necessary we'll agree on what specific interests you might be interested in and in what time frame we're able to deliver them. But it'll be at the expense of the job that these people are gonna be costing other files. I'm warning you, it's just a long-term base, but that's my problem. I don't want to burden you with that. The Member therefore clearly formulates the questions, in the end he repeated them here. And I answer that I have therefore responded to a question concerning the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Administration and not the Customs Administration and more or less that at the moment I am not able to give any further information. I'd like to be more specific about the information. The compensation agenda in question amounts to 933 claims for damages from 2011 to 2017. These are kept in the basic register in the Excel program, which allows limited data to be entered according to the set criteria concerning applications, but not litigation, filter, sort according to the specified criteria, does not allow it to add or do the selection there as much as the Member would have requested. There is also a register of litigation that is kept by the National Property Fund in the acquired LOTUS system, which, however, almost does not allow any filtering and mass output at all. It should be noted that not all applications will be subject to legal proceedings. Because basically a complaint is filed, just for your information, and the Ministry of Finance is proposing, or more or less communicating with the party's claimer for damages. And it often happens that he is satisfied with how the communication takes place, or with the damage compensation proposed, or he will accept it and does not further activate any litigation. And, of course, once again, I mention the so-called Simonův doctrine that we are entering into disputes that are not at all related to the Ministry of Finance, and we are merely performing there on behalf of these other departments of other institutions. I repeat that the individual data are kept in detail, which meets the needs of the Ministry of Finance, but which does not take into account, for example, the distinction on the agendas of the General Financial Directorate, the Directorate-General of Customs, its own agenda of the Ministry of Finance or the so-called residual agenda under Section 6 para. 3 of the Damage Compensation Act. Thus, it only differentiates between live cases and closed cases and monitors the records because they are for the needs of the Ministry of Finance, it actually monitors the individual stages of the course of the legal proceedings so that we can see that there are no delays or delays in legal deadlines. All demands beyond that, and this request by the Member is beyond the records as it is conducted, must therefore be sought individually by hand in thousands of files. In the registration of the EPD file service, this is the internal filing service of the Ministry of Finance, the filing of applications or the filing of litigation, the so-called LOTUS that we have taken over. Some additional files are already archived, so of course it would have to be manually searched in the archives. Such a search is not possible due to the scope, was not possible within the 30-day period for the processing of interpelation and is staff-intensive. I can't have it searched for, like, someone who only works in the mailroom or who works in the office, it really has to be a person who knows the file and the agenda to know what he's looking for. I'm repeatedly offering a personal discussion, offering you a personal visit, where we'll show you the records, and we'll just show you how the records are kept. And there is no legal obligation to keep this record because we process it for ourselves. We have a legal obligation to obey the law and meet its standards. Even beyond this interpelation. There are more things that haven't been mentioned in the interpellation itself. At least I'll try to react briefly. You asked how it would be handled by an entrepreneur who wouldn't have supplied any records, and how it is possible that the Ministry of Finance doesn't have those records. Those are completely different things. When tax proceedings are conducted, they are always conducted in accordance with the law. And if it is based on the principles of evidence that are enshrined in the tax code, and if a businessman is required to register, then it can only be required if he is to keep it under the law. So if there are a number of records, such as income and expense records, we were talking here yesterday, or two days ago, time flies, accounting, who has to keep records, who keeps accounts. And that's a classic example. But please, we have to distinguish very strictly from the problem of a public authority keeping records for its own use, it does not have this obligation by law, so it is not obliged to conduct an analysis of individual litigations, it is obliged to proceed under the Damage Compensation Act. And if you feel we're not moving forward, please oppose the law. But let us not combine things that are absolutely unrelated to each other and which are therefore absolutely incompatible. You mentioned here the popular box of Tic Tac, for which the entrepreneur received 15 thousand crowns of fines under EET control. I won't hold up. I refer, here was a great advantage, that the businessman basically stripped the Financial Administration of confidentiality, so any of you who are interested, including you, Mr. Munzar, will find a detailed description of this case, in other cases it is not possible because there is a strict obligation of confidentiality, you will find it on the Financial Administration website. Alternatively, with the so-called Business Unions, I think they shared it back then, you might also find it on my website, where there is a detailed explanation of the Financial Administration, and of course on the Financial Administration website. The business unions you mention, I don't really know who they're representing, but that's irrelevant now. The important thing is that the Financial Administration could have explained what it was like. And it wasn't what you said. There was simply proceedings conducted, very briefly, I do not want to tire everyone, I refer to the detailed information, there was initiated administrative proceedings because a breach of the law on registration of sales was found. And because it was the first violation, so surely the Financial Administration would proceed with regard to these facts, she must always weigh on the scales of all extenuating and aggravating circumstances. And certainly the sanctions would be minimal. But in the course of the ongoing administrative procedure, she went over the control more times and found out every time, and that was the result, so there was simply a continuation of the administrative offence, and I refer you to a detailed explanation of the Financial Administration. [[9.30 hours]] I'd like to ask you never to use that for... I don't know if you said that, but now I don't want to push you around to see if every businessman is a dirty suspect for the Financial Administration or the Treasury Department. You've never heard it from my mouth, you'll never hear it, because I don't think so. And I don't think so even after I spent almost my entire professional life at the Financial Administration. On the contrary, I think most of them are honest. So please don't say it and don't push it. We're fighting for most of the honest ones just to have a level playing field with the dishonest ones, so I don't want that anymore, and I'm not gonna say it anymore, it's just insulting to me when these words are being passed on to us. Locking orders. I don't know if I'm supposed to talk about it, it wasn't even primarily the subject of your interpelation, you were more concerned about how many cases of detention orders took place in the appeal proceedings, then the court, and then eventually it was the subject of damages. We don't have this number, we have a summary number. But the subject of hedging orders, and again, I will refer you to the pages of the Financial Administration in particular. So many times as Deputy Minister, I was on the Budget Committee, I was on the government as Deputy, where I simply presented together with the Managing Director of Financial Administration statistics, and there was a very significant shift. In the autumn of last year, the financial administration issued a methodological instruction that you will find on its website. The conditions were clearly established there. Those hedge orders, you said it right, they've been in the law since 1993. She already knew them, I'll fix you up, first republic, that's nothing new. Finally, we also have something similar in criminal legislation that provides property during criminal proceedings. That's not unusual. And indeed, the Financial Administration, in proportion to the number of payers, because we're talking mainly about VAT hedging orders, you're interested in these super-fast hedge orders, so in proportion to the number of payers we have about half a million, so about 0.03% of them were issued. But I agree that even if there was one person who would dispose of the company illegally, it would be wrong. These things are waking up, there's extensive analytical material, there's a methodical instruction. As Secretary of State in January 2018, I called together an expert team on the tax system, which exists at the Ministry of Finance for several years, its participants are the Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Supreme Prosecutor, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, of course finance, Financial Administration and many other experts I am..., judges of the Supreme Administrative Court, representatives of the Chamber of Tax Advisors, which, of course, the Bar, and we discussed the issue of hedging orders with regard to the new methodology. The methodology, to sum it up with one sentence, changes the shift in the fact that the hedging order, as it is designed in the tax order, basically means in connection with a special VAT adjustment, that if conditions are met, if there is a justified concern, the Financial Administration will deliver the hedging order, e.g. there is a risk that tax will be measured in some future, and actually there are concerns that the tax will be unenforceable in the future, if I say this very briefly and in a very simple way, so it will deliver this freezing order and will immediately impose on the entity actually fulfilling it. And that warranty is in a very short time, almost immediately after that moment of delivery, becoming enforceable and becoming an executioner's title, and the Financial Administration has a legitimate tool to enforce. And that was the rock of argument that in a number of cases she went for it. And that methodology is changing this and it's binding. Even if it is not a law, so because there is already a long time and years of finding the Constitutional Court, which says that if a public authority sets an internal normative directive for certain procedures, it is simply binding on it and would be a violation of the Constitution of guaranteed rights if they were not respected. So even though it is a methodology, it is binding, and there has changed fundamentally that the Financial Administration can only do this if it is not live companies, i.e. it's gonna be different, and there's a whole series of them, empty boxes that have money in their account, and it would be clear that by the time the tax is measured, the money just won't be on the accounts. But if it's a living company that has employees that work, it has a portfolio, it can only take that step if it's not possible to drain other means of protection. And they exist. These are various guarantees, liens, etc. At the same time, and I will personally write a letter to the new Minister of Justice, we have concluded with the fact that I will endeavour to do so in cooperation, but it is in the Gesture of the Ministry of Justice, because now, of course, we have begun to work on it, but again I will write to the new Minister, initiate the position of the so-called Minister, do not hold me at my word, it is the working name, the forced hedge manager, that is, some person who, if a hedge order is issued, an independent person, would stress, at the Ministry of Finance, which would oversee the interests of both the entrepreneur and the state. It is offered for example. the portfolio of the so-called insolvency administrators or something similar. We must, of course, discuss this. Anyway, I never want to, and I'll always be against being a person in any way connected with the Ministry of Finance's department, and it'll create some kind of feeling of bias or addiction. At this point, I think I may have answered all your questions. I'm offering you again, and I'm inviting you to the Ministry of Finance. I'll show you the evidence as we run it, we run it for the Ministry of Finance's needs, we do everything we can to uphold the law, and we can't afford to do anything different. And if you want to rule out a violation of the law or a violation of legal obligations, do so, but do so with the support of the generally binding regulations. Otherwise, I simply cannot accommodate you for these reasons that I have described. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u5	Thank you, too. Before we move on to the debate, I have some tickets again. Mrs Radka Maxová apologizes to us within 11 o'clock, and then from 14.30 to the end of today's working day, and Mr Holomčík apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for working reasons. I now ask Mr Munzar again to debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u6	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your reply, for your clarification, thank you even for answering the question that has been raised rather rhetorically. I also thank you for the invitation that I would love, and I will certainly not be alone, I have colleagues here with whom we agreed that we would actually visit this department and look. But frankly, I don't even care about the technical quality of a particular database, but about the material that I think every administrator of the state register should have. So I am not interested in any particular case, but rather in trends. You said here for my part of the interpellation regarding the warranty, that you don't have a number, how many of the warranty orders came to court, and it was decided. At the same time, we know how the hedging orders started to be used. They have been here since 1993, as you said, in 2012 this extraordinary instrument was used in 269 cases, in 2013, based on the media, in 467 cases, 2014 were already 1,032, in 2015 1 605, 2016 1 561. The trend is really very, very increasing. [[9.40 hours]] And you said here that even if there was one case that would destroy the company, that's wrong. So if your predecessor in Sobotkův's government, Minister of Finance for YES Ivan Pilný, he apologized to six companies for liquidating them, it was at least six times wrong. Indeed, from this point of view, how many appeals proceedings will be decided in favour of the tax entity and how many of those cases that it does not decide in favour of the tax entity will reach the court, and the court will decide positively in favour of the tax entity, so this shows precisely the aggressiveness or non-aggressiveness of the Financial Administration, whether it is actually proceeding correctly, whether the Board of Appeal is the independent body that actually judges it independently and impartially and objectively, or rather contributes to it, and I must say this again, an aggressive approach with a view to maximum tax collection, regardless of the victims. So that's what I was interested in, and that's why I can't be satisfied with your answer, and I'll allow myself to propose, in accordance with Section 54 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 1. 5 that the Chamber of Deputies does not agree with the answer and requires you to create a new response within 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u7	Thank you for the suggestion. Before we move back in the debate, I have two more apologies. Mr Lubomír Španěl apologizes to us today for family reasons and Mr Jan Hrnčíř apologizes to us between 11 and 15 o'clock due to a doctor's visit. I'm looking to see if anyone else is joining the debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. Mr Vojtěch Munzar therefore proposed the disagreement of the Chamber of Deputies, which we will vote on. Given how thin the benches are, I'm taking the liberty of doing it. We'll wait a while. For the arrivals, I repeat, we will be voting on the House's disagreement with the response to the interpelation. I don't see a checkout application. I see an application for check-out, so I'm gonna check you out. Please log back in with your cards or spare cards. For the arrivals, I repeat that we will be voting on the House's disagreement with Minister Schillerová's reply to Mr Vojtěch Munzar's interpelation. Looks like our numbers are stable. Initiating vote number 45. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? There were 100 Members in the 45 vote, 44 in favour, 52 in favour. The motion was denied. Thus, the House has not expressed its opposition, and this is the end of the discussion. Thank you. [[Noise in the hall.]] Let's move on to another interpellation. Minister for Regional Development Klára Dostálová responded to Mr Vojtěch Munzar's interview on the current drawdown of European funds in the Czech Republic between 2014 and 2020. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 185. I thank you and open the debate and please once again Mr Munzar, who, I presume, is reporting. And I'd like to ask for some peace in the room. I see we've gotten bigger here, which is good, but please keep the noise level so that we can listen to each other. Please, Mr. Ambassador. [[Constant noise in the left side of the hall.]] We'll wait until the talks are over at the speaker's desk and the situation in the hall on my left calms down. [[Mr. Jan Free is talking to Minister Schiller there.]] Can you continue, Mr. Ambassador, or...?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u8	Thank you. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government. I would like to begin, and I really mean it, to thank the Minister for the well-treated response to the interpelation, I am talking about the form. This answer is not trying to conceal and conceal anything, and I appreciate that very much, Madam Secretary. But other than that, it's not very happy reading, the numbers. I have asked to include this point so that all colleagues and the public can get acquainted with the real situation. We are in the middle of the programming period and are effectively paid out, as I understand from the answer, 18,6 percent of the funds allocated from the European funds for the Czech Republic. A bill of 14,2 % and the EU applied for payment of 12,3 %. In my 185 printing, you can find a well-processed table where you can see it spread over individual programs. The first two figures, the calls announced and the number of decisions to close the grant are interesting, but for me it doesn't say anything about a particular drawing. The actual drawers are the three numbers I've read here. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] And since I think, ladies and gentlemen, through Mr President, that the state of drawdown of the European Fund of the Czech Republic should be of enormous interest to us, I would ask the President if...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u9	I understand. I would ask colleagues on the left to move their coalition negotiations outside the House plenary or to end them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u10	Thank you. So we're in the middle of a programming period and we're supposed to be running out of less than a fifth. The problem is as similar as in the previous programming period. When my colleagues in the last House pointed out the delay already with the start of the funds, it was waved at by hand. It really started at the end of 2015, but the programming period was already in 2014, so at the beginning of the drawing it took almost two years to delay itself. And we see current problems. Interpelation shows that the most poorly pumped is the Integrated Regional Operational Programme. He's the worst in the pumping. Only 4,6 % of total allocation paid. And I have reports from the mayors of our region that communication with both the administrative authority and the managing authority is very long in the administration of applications, which, of course, complicates planning for the mayors in our region, and in the end many of them have decided to do more simply those projects, which means for their own sake, they do not have to meet all the hard and difficult conditions at times to wait for the grant of a year, year and a half, so they prefer to make it out of their budget. The second such bad example is the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness, where only 9.1 % is reimbursed. There is or was a problem with certification. I'm wondering, Madam Secretary, if you have any information as to whether it's been resolved and how. And the media has recently been reported that it is this program that changes the conditions for applicants, for them, for an ex post, until after the implementation of the projects, which therefore seems so unfair to change the conditions not during, but after the end of the game. That is why I am particularly interested in what acceleration measures the government has taken in demise, the previous government, in the six months, the government without confidence, and what new government will adopt in the coming days, because every day is essential in this. And I wonder if the European Union has been asked to re-allocate funds between programmes and what, or whether the government itself has exercised its powers to re-allocate funds under individual programmes, what and how much. [[9.50 hours]] I'm not much of a fan of redistribution and subsidies. I think that subsidies, especially in the business environment, are distorting the market. But if the Czech Republic is entitled to any funds from the European Union, it must do its utmost to exhaust them. In the end, I won't forgive myself for the remark. Although it is nice that the previous government has been driving around the Republic promising mountains with hounds and everything, and perhaps the meat will soon be in the process, but it should also be more concerned with problems in individual operational programs so that we can be a little more successful in drawing funds. Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u11	Thank you, too. Before we continue the debate, I would like to read you some of the note cards. Minister Robert Plaga apologizes to us on urgent business matters within 15 hours and we are apologized by Mr Stanislav Juránek from today's meeting from 11 a.m. to the end of the day. Now, please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I will, of course, answer some of the specific questions raised by the Member here, because we have actually prepared very detailed material on the drawing of European funds. I'd probably just stop by, actually, we're-- part of the materials was a table that included the total allocation. There it is necessary to realize that the total allocation is composed of the main allocation, which all the managing authorities have called. certain, and then the performance reserve, which, of course, is released precisely to meet milestones at the end of 2018, and it is both financial and material milestones. Then, of course, we see how much of the allocation money is already under legal acts, i.e. under the decisions, how many of these legal acts have been exhausted, i.e. The money has already been transferred, how much is already in the payment applications and how much is certified in the finals. These are the three figures that the honourable Member is talking about. Where are we, of course... The alpha omega for us, of course, is money that is billed in summary payment applications and subsequently certified to the European Commission. For these two numbers it is necessary to stop because of course certification does not take place every day. That money is actually collected every three months at the Treasury Department, and then it goes so-called. a comprehensive application for certification to the European Commission and the certification shall take place three times four times a year. That is why this indicator is not the one we are monitoring at the government level right now, but we are looking at how much the managing authorities have actually paid towards the particular applicants and what goes into the aggregate payment claims. And here, of course, over 106 billion have already been paid, and that is the number of 18.6, which was mentioned by the Member. To others I would like to respond to what the Member said that we really are not in the middle. Although the programming period started from 2014 to 2020, the lack of legislation on the part of the European Commission has really started because the operational programmes were approved only during 2015, i.e. real drawing takes place from 2016, 2017 and now we are only in June 2018 and this period lasts until 2023, because we have rule N+3. Well, we're not halfway here, we're barely two years out of draw, and we're out 18,6 which is about 20 percent of the total allocation. Of course, communication with the managing authorities did, so of course, we tried to set up a uniform methodological environment. We have ten operational programs, ten managing bodies. Of course, the communication, for example, where it's called. fast-track projects, such as: The Employment Operational Programme, which draws on the European Social Fund, is a different communication from the managing authorities that make investments. We are, of course, those are the concrete government steps that we are trying to take, because really the way it is set today, that the ex post projects are actually being paid, and the investment projects, given that they were so low-interest loans, it happened that each applicant took credit for his project and only came to the managing authority in two years until he realized his investment. And this, of course, is a big problem with the Czech Republic's drawing settings, because it pre-finances the system of banks and we are actually the last in the order and then, of course, we should follow the cash flow as administrators. This means that we have taken these steps with those investment programmes, that we are particularly where the applicants are state institutions, i.e. The Directorate of Roads and Motorways or, of course, individual ministries within the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, be it the National Heritage Institute etc., so we try to submit interim requests for payment. That means for example. After three months. This means that they do not have to realize a 200 million-dollar monument reconstruction and come up in 2019 with one payment application, but to walk continuously every three months. This has really succeeded, and we're actually speeding it up. But it is also a challenge for us in the future that it might be better to set up a system, perhaps many of you remember, because of the very more continuous use of European funds - before they were called. The limits, that is, with unpaid invoices, went directly to the bank, and the bank actually cashed the invoices, and that would ensure faster drawdown. As far as the mayors are concerned, of course, they are targeting the Integrated Regional Operational Programme in particular. Although this program is the largest in the Czech Republic, it also maps the largest number of overhangs. This means, for example, we have declared 2 billion to primary schools and the overhang is 5 billion. And this is how I could continue with these individual measures in the Integrated Regional Operational Programme. Therefore, the effort, and it is the government's own initiative, to seek further resources to strengthen these projects, which are called. in cartridges. We have initiated ourselves, and today many mayors are running out of letters saying that we have released additional resources to finance primary schools, we have released another 1.3 billion. And believe me, this is the daily work of a very ant, so that these projects can actually get financial support as quickly as possible. And my visit to Commissioner Creta, where again at the request of the Prime Minister, means that the Czech Republic's own initiative is to re-allocate the money from the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for the Competitiveness of Broadband, because even though we did the analysis of needs etc., I think it just burned down at the beginning of the programming period. We allocated 14 billion to high-speed internet there and the Czech Republic doesn't have projects for this, we're not ready for this. The European Commission has agreed that I can start transferring half of this money to other programmes that need it. The Restart strategy has helped us very much here, because we are really at the top of the European Union, these are regions affected by coal mining, this is the Karlovy Vary Region, the Moravian-Silesian Region and the Ústecký Region. And thanks to the fact that many of the projects from these regions ended up in IROP in project storages, of course, the gross of the 7 billion that we will transfer from OPPIK will go to the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, whether on emission-free vehicles or, of course, strengthening primary school infrastructure or strengthening health, eGovernment and other things. As far as OPPIK itself is concerned, we are very intensively monitoring the situation in OPPIK because, of course, it has received an operational program warning letter there, which means that the European Commission draws attention to the fact that, on the basis of the audit results, they have actually unlawfully received public support there. We're very intensely monitoring this. With the European Commission, we have an agreed action plan to address the deficiencies in OPPIK so as to be certification. It's not that applicants can't draw and don't get money, because we get it all the same, those operational programs are pre-financing from the state budget, but it's so that the OPPIK can restart certification in September. So much for this. And just maybe one last comment. Of course, it is crucial for us to follow the N+3 rule, which means the money allocated to us by the European Commission for 2015, we have to exhaust by the end of 2018, it is N+3, i.e. 15+3=18. And that's how we actually look at it, and here we actually have the N+3. This is crucial for us not to lose a crown of European funds, so we are already exhausted by more than 85 percent. So since the most intense months, especially in investment programs, are still waiting for us because the construction season started in March, of course we expect the biggest loads of invoices during the summer months, September, October, so there is really no reason, according to the predictions of individual management bodies, to worry that we would not have exhausted it. [[10.00 hours]] And as far as our government trips are concerned, we really aren't making any promises anywhere. We are mapping investments, mapping the needs of individual regions, because even though we are actually dealing with drawdown here, I am also preparing the outlook and drawing up operational programmes for 2021 plus, which means 2021 to 2027, and we would of course like to prepare those priorities and allocations for the real needs of our cities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u13	Thank you, too. I have just heard from Mr Kupka for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u14	Dear Members of the Government, dear colleagues, I would like to address one further question to the Minister and one request at the same time. Of course, I appreciate the fact that the government is trying to move funds, to reallocate them where there is a greater demand, where there is a greater need for the Czech Republic. This is a necessary and correct step. However, I note from a number of mayors serious problems with how the Integrated Regional Operational Programme works, especially in the area of completely unnecessary bureaucratic requirements, repeated checks and, above all, in the fact that some projects are waiting for the legal act, for the registration, for more than a year. And the fact that they wait so long means for them, among other things, major problems not only with funding, because prices have changed significantly in the construction sector over the year, so they get into a really very difficult situation where they want to realize their investments and their projects, but maybe it doesn't come to that, because it will just compete at prices that are outside the original project, outside the original estimate. That's one serious problem. Second serious problem. Because in many cases it is school projects that are bound to start on holidays and, if possible, also complete on vacations, this delay always means a whole year shift in implementation, and this makes them significantly more complicated and difficult conditions again. My request and the specific question is what changes in the administration, so that the bureaucratic burden isn't so great that it doesn't fall among the most clearly managed operating programs and grant programs in the Czech Republic all year round, what you do, what you plan to do. I very much ask that this matter be done as much as possible, because the real problem there is with the Czech Republic. The bureaucratic burden in this particular case is really unbearable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u15	Good morning. I thank Mr Kupek and now I ask if anyone else wants to come forward. Yes. Madam Secretary Klára Dostálová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u16	I really won't be stalling much longer. I would just really like to answer that, because we are actually very intensive about this. What's the problem? Of course, the problem with the IROP is that the challenge has been opened when we talk about primary schools to about 2 billion. CZK and applied for projects in 5 billion.. And since these are the high-profile challenges, all projects must be evaluated for those 5 billion, which is, of course, a thousand projects that the administrative capacity must manage. Given what happened and how we learned from this development, we will make a barometer of challenges for the next time. That means, if we have an allocation of 1 billion, then those projects will end up at some 1.2 1.3 -- of course, because there's going to be some natural decline, but we're definitely not going to let it go in the whole width, which then has to evaluate the administrative capacity. So it's also going to be about the fact that the applicants must be well and quickly prepared for when the challenge is launched. So much for the actual things that can be done, and otherwise, of course, I'm preparing a whole series of measures for the administrative burden for the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u17	Thank you, Madam Secretary, and now I'm gonna look for the O.R. Yes, Mr Member, but we therefore have an open debate, so until the debate, Mr Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u18	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answers. Of course, I know that rule N+2, respectively N+3, but it is an option to draw funds after the end of the programming period. So we're in the middle of a programming period, but that's just a word. I think it was a mistake at the beginning that programming documents were submitted for approval to the European Commission only de facto during 2015 and at the end of 2014 and there it took almost two years to delay. I am therefore not sure that this was an error on the EU side, but rather the Czech Republic sent the programming documents with a delay. But it's not about me dealing with the past right now. I would like to join Mr Kupek with this appreciation that you are concerned with the fact that you want to direct the funds to areas where there is a significant overhang of projects over predetermined allocation resources, in particular I appreciate the infrastructure of primary schools, and I would just like to draw your attention to one thing which you know very well that there is a problem in one requirement, and that requirement is barrier-free for many schools. We have a lot of schools that were built behind Austria-Hungary, for the first Republic, and there, at the best possible will, it is not possible to meet the requirement of barrier-freeness to expand such a school. I think you might as well take a look at this. There would be an opportunity to drain some of the funds. Let me just make one last comment. I will not propose a resolution that I do not agree with the response to the interpelation, because I think that it has been formally drawn up sufficiently factually. We see how difficult it is for applicants to receive such a subsidy from individual mayors, and there are long deadlines when they themselves do not know how to proceed, and often they draw only their own resources instead of taking advantage of the possibilities given to the programmes. So I would like to join Mr. Kupka's plea to make it as simple as possible for the mayors to be able to draw as possible, because today we are really only hearing about how difficult it is, and the IROP is now, according to those numbers, the least pumped program so far. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u19	Thank you. Once again, I will look around the O.R. to see if we have anyone else registered for the general debate. I don't see anybody, so if no one's coming forward, I'm done with the debate. And now again, I ask Mr Vojtěch Munzar, as proposed by the House of Deputies' resolution on this answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I've been briefing this place for a while now. I will not propose a resolution that we do not agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u21	Okay. I hereby thank you, and we can end this interpelation. We'll proceed to another interpellation. Former Minister of the Interior Lubomír Metnar responded to the interview of a member of Zdeněk Ondráček on increasing the administrative burden on members of the Police of the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 208. This would therefore be an interpelation to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček, who is ready, so I thank and open the debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u22	Hello, Mr. Managing Director, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. On 9 May, I turned to the then Minister of Interior, Mr Lubomír Metnar, with an interview, which aimed to increase the administrative burden on police officers or, in general, members of the security forces. I was also coming out of the government's programming declaration, which was then, but is basically identical in this area, the one that is presented now, and you can check it, it is House Document No 1070, where on page 17 in the field of internal security and public administration is spoken: We will reduce bureaucracy and the administrative burden of police officers so that they can concentrate on their basic activity, which is particularly the fight against crime. - Great, I'd like to clap. I'd love to. But it's not entirely true, because with every new matter, the administration for police officers is growing. And one of those things that has increased, increased or could have taken place is law number 250 on liability for offences that we have approved here in the past term and that someone interprets in such a way that sanctions imposed or administrative penalties, warnings, would mean a new administrative burden for police officers in the sense that they would have blocks such as penalty blocks, so they would have blocks for offenses, virtually. processing a misdemeanor that would be handled by a warning. [[10.10 hours]] I asked the Minister whether by adopting a new law on liability for offences, there was some new social need for statistical record of administrative punishment in the form of admonition, because in the old law of offense, which was Law No. 200/1990 Coll., we had sanctions as defined in Section 11 and sanctions were a warning, a fine, a ban on activities, etc. In the new law on offences or liability for offences, we have types of administrative penalties, if you want sanctions, warnings, fines, bans and others, i.e. Nothing's changed. According to the old offence law, sanctions can be imposed separately or with other sanctions, warnings cannot be imposed with a fine. According to the new law it is the same - the administrative penalty can be imposed separately or together with other administrative penalties, the admonition cannot be imposed together with the fine. In determining the type of penalty and its scope, account shall be taken of the gravity of the offence, in particular the manner in which it is committed, the consequences thereof, the circumstances in which it was committed, etc. - that's what he called the old law of misdemeanor. The New Criminal Law states: when determining the kind and measure of administrative punishment, account shall be taken, in particular, of the nature and gravity of the offence, of the fact that one or more offences have been committed by one or more acts, of the aggravating and mitigating circumstances, etc. Basically between the old law and the new criminal law, if you want between 200 and 200, there's basically no difference. The Old Testament spoke of block proceedings, i.e. on the imposition of block fines on the spot, and he said in Section 84: The offense can be discussed by imposing a fine in a block procedure, if it is reliably established, it is not sufficient to agree and the defendant is willing to pay the fine. There's no such thing anymore, so-called. an agreement, and a police officer should have every administrative offense, if you want to prosecute according to the level of sanctions, an admonition as if it does not exist, and he should discuss the matter with the citizen, write with him a block, which is basically as large as a penalty block, where he describes the conduct, the perpetrator of the offence, the administrative offense, will express himself and he will impose a penalty of admonition. He comes to the maid's office, pulls the block out, puts it in the statistical records that they are. And I'm asking if there's a social need to record a reminder or an agreement. I have considered whether we have made any mistakes in this legislation and whether it is really socially necessary and we have to deal with it. The Minister's reply was that the warning blocks were formally necessary, from a purely practical point of view desirable, and it is probably really impossible for every infringement to take effect to be qualified as an offence and to be dealt with by the police authority on the spot. This means, the Minister's answer is that it is necessary to register, but it is not really possible for any misdemeanor proceedings and the lowest social harm that have been dealt with before by warning, virtually. It's not real, it's not real, it's not in the police's ability to deal with it, and it's in each of them writing down the notebooks and the records, etc. Then - and everyone seems to know what a misdemeanor is - the police asked me: "We're going to take a service car. We're going in the opposite direction, we're going to meet an unenlightened vehicle. The vehicle violates Act No. 361 on road traffic because it is also mandatory to have the vehicle illuminated during the day. The police are currently saying, "We're going, we're going to let the beacon go, we're going to blink so the citizen can see that the police are coming, we're going to blink through it, and we're going to tell him by gestures - you're not. Citizen sees that it doesn't shine - and many of us who don't have automatic lights yet, it certainly happened that we forgot to light up the lights on a sunny day. The police saw this as a solution to an agreement where they didn't even have to deal with anything. Now, according to the new law, they ask me: We're supposed to light up the lighthouses, turn on the vehicle, catch up to it somewhere in urban traffic, i.e. Make this a charade, stop him and tell him, Citizen, you don't shine, we've noticed! Sit down, write a block in place, and solve the offense with a warning. We need to know how many citizens are engaged in such serious social negotiations. - Sounded like absolute nonsense to me. I didn't want to deal with it, because cops are already heavy enough, and they're doing one third of their work to the administration. For example, if you have any possessions today and you give an explanation to the police, the police will give you 12 sheets of paper for one of your announcements. I repeat again - 12 sheets of paper, where there is a lesson. Lessons for 12 sheets A4. And that's for anyone who needs only damage to the fence or the perpetrator's property. 12 sheets of paper. šalamounský's reply from the Ministry of the Interior was that it was stated that if a police officer in the conduct of the police service found a course contrary to the law and, at the same time, appointed the perpetrator of such an act, he was entitled to settle the matter on the ground by an agreement. - I don't know how, but it says so here. - If, after assessing the relevant facts of a particular case, it finds such a measure sufficient for the purpose of eliminating the infringement of the law and the correction of the author of that found adverse condition, the case shall be closed by the police officer by examining the case on the spot. [[By solving it?]] The policeman is doing so within the framework of the Police Act of the Czech Republic. I'm making a statement. I and the police are in Law No. 273/2008 didn't find anything like that. So, theoretically, the request would be: according to what paragraph in that law on police would a police officer proceed like that? And now it's interesting - we're talking about the lowest socially harmful negotiations: it doesn't go according to Act No. 250 and does not impose an administrative penalty on the person, i.e. a warning or a penalty, nor does he make a notification to the competent administrative authority. A police officer shall not be obliged to write any written documentation on the spot examination of the matter. - On the other hand, it is said that the analytical and legal department of the Ministry of the Interior is aware of the fact that the resolution of the matter on the ground by agreement, but not by negotiation of the offence, is not an instrument contained in the current version of Act No. 250. - So they refer to Law No. 273 about the Police of the Czech Republic, where you will not find such a thing, say that a policeman does not have to write down what he wants, at the same time he creates blocks to write a warning as a fine block, and they put another sheet in his pocket and at the same time say that in Law No. 250 is nothing like that. On my questions, if I asked if this was about increasing the administrative burden of police officers, the answer was very interesting: Yes, it is about certain - certain! - increase the administrative burden on police officers, which in this case is not the result of the extension of the instruments available to police officers to deal with specific cases accordingly. - And since the law arose in the past term, this government doesn't consider it its problem because it responds to the actions that were before. So putting the Institute of Order on the ground, imposing an administrative penalty of admonition, is not appropriate with the Government's programming declaration, because this institute was introduced into the Czech legal system by an amendment in 2006, i.e. before this government. It's like two political parties to the current government coalition aren't there. So it turned into someone else. I guess I'm just asking you one basic question: We really need to take the lowest forms of misdemeanors that I mentioned in my example, e.g. A driver who commits such serious misdemeanor acts that forgets to turn on the lights at a time of day is required to be chased by policemen with beacons and to write with him a block of administrative settlement of a warning offence, which they subsequently enter into the register and subsequently - I don't know what it will be registered for then? Maybe someday you'll ask how many misdemeanors the police have solved on the spot. [[10.20 hours]] I'd rather the cops fulfill the government's programming statements and the tasks they've been given by law and fight crime, we'd see them more on the streets than spend 30 percent of their time writing down nonsense blocks and records that we're simply adding to them. And throwing it at the last government, even though there are two political entities in the government that are part of this government and are sitting in the government, I find it very smiling. One of the cops told me: give the idiot a job, he'll invent a paper - in this case a fine block, a warning measure. I'll wait for the Minister to say. Of course, I'm aware that the Minister hasn't been in office for 24 hours, or now he has. I'll leave it up to him, and we'll decide what to do next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u23	Thank you. Mr. Home Secretary Jan Hamáček has the floor now. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u24	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have come to know the correspondence between the Member and my predecessor. I would like to say that I am aware of the problem that arose when the institute of agreement fell out of law. And as much as the Ministry of the Interior and other institutions, especially the Police Presidium, have tried to address things, for example, by means of methodological recommendations on how the police should proceed, it turns out that the complete lack of agreement is a problem. Firstly, there is a methodological instruction, and the question is whether all police officers met him in time, but even so, if they knew him, do they have some kind of legal certainty that if it is not directly due to the law, they cannot then be prosecuted by police authorities. So from my point of view, the easiest solution, because I agree that it is not in the interest of increasing the burden of the police, it is not in the interest of registering something that we only record in order to record it would be to amend the law. However, I would like to say frankly that if we went the way of the Government's draft law on offences, it would be a process that we would have to start perhaps now in order to reach the outcome at the end of the parliamentary term. I have also noted from the statements made by the Member that there is a path, let us say, a simple parliamentary amendment to this law to resolve this. I understand it's not standard procedure, but I think it's adequate procedure. So if there was a possibility of an agreement within, of course, a subcommittee for the police, then, of course, I am prepared to make available the relevant expertise of the Ministry of the Interior, so that we can solve the problem. It's a helpful step for me, and I think we're probably both in agreement. There's no need to burden the cops. This also applies to other members of the Security Corps. And my priority is to make an audit and see if really all the paperwork that cops and firemen do is necessary. I think there's plenty of reserves. So in this case, I'm offering the Ministry's synergies, if the subcommittee, or one of its members, or you personally submit the amendment through the President, so I guess we're able to sort this thing out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u25	Thank you, Minister. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Member of Parliament, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u26	Thank you, Minister, for our agreement, as we discussed before the start of this interpelation. Yes, the simplest form is the parliamentary proposal. We are prepared with our colleague, former Interior Minister Milan Chovanc, as both members of the Sub-Committee for the Police of the Czech Republic for the cooperation of your proposed experts, provided by experts from the Ministry of the Interior, to prepare and submit it at the autumn meeting of the Government. If colleagues here in the Chamber of Deputies agree that there is no need for an administrative record of such conduct, or, as a matter of fact, such administrative offences, to record it, then I think we are able to discuss this also in the context of a reduced procedure and could be effective quite quickly. Although the effectiveness of Act No. 250/2016 Sb. is from 1. 7. last year, that means almost a year, so the cops in the weird and methodical direction on how they're supposed to deal with these things comes up now and is being introduced. So if he's two months late, we're able to treat this legislation. Thank you for your kindness. If you wish, the Sub-Committee on Police, which I chair for the second term, is ready to help you at any time with removing the burden of police officers and in other solutions to security issues of the Czech Republic. I think you started as a minister in the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u27	Thank you. So now I'm going to look around the O.R. to see if there's any interest. There is no interest in the speech, so I am ending the debate. Member Zdeněk Ondráček. Are you interested in proposing a resolution?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u28	No, I've had enough of this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u29	So I'm done with this interpellation. Now, let's get down to the final interpellation I have here. Anyway, here's an apology. I would like to apologise for the whole of the day on account of a foreign trip, and it is Mr Řehounek. We will now proceed to a written interview with the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch responded to the interview of Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová on the division of aprobation tests according to Act No. 90/2004 Coll., as amended, part eight, for doctors of third countries operating in the Czech Republic according to the field. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 209. So I am now opening up the debate and the floor of my Member, Hana Aulická Jírovcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u30	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Minister, in April I approached you with my written interview under No. 88 on the current issue of aprobation tests for doctors from third countries. I asked you four specific numbered questions, and I expected four specific answers. However, as we can all see in the Houses of the Press 209, I have unfortunately not received specific answers to specific questions from you. Perhaps only partially in your extensive educational text on the third question. So if I am not to understand the first answer of the penultimate paragraph of your answer as three times no, that is the reason that led me to disagree with your answers, i.e. almost unanswered. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to emphasise that it is not a mistake that, just as you consider the Ministry, it is for the applicants to undergo a proper process of recognising the competence to perform the relevant medical profession in the Czech Republic, that is to say an informal and probational test, so as to ensure that the health services of patients in the Czech Republic will be provided by persons with appropriate expertise and also with the necessary knowledge of the Czech language, in other words, that, for example, the doctor from Kiev confirms the same qualification as the probational and linguistic examination, as is recognised by a doctor from Bucharest only after a language examination, since Romania is part of the European Union, and therefore this doctor does not have to pass a probation exam with us. To this end, the initiative of foreign doctors is published on the Internet in the form of a petition for the modification of compulsory examination for doctors, dentists and pharmacists and can therefore be made publicly available. The Merit of the matter of my efforts and this interpelation is that only the conditions for testing third-country citizens who are, not that, beyond the obligations of students at our medical faculties should unite with them. There's no way I'm interested in changing the content of the exam, but in changing its form. That was and is the point of my interpellation. I would like to make a hypothesis here that not every graduate of our schools could succeed again in the same day after ten years of practice in their field. Therefore, I am not interested in less professional requirements, but in the conditions for preparing and carrying out tests. The problem had already been discussed by Minister Němeček and after him Minister Ludvík and now, Minister, you too. The problem is therefore not new and it has always been shown that the relevant chambers and academic sphere have pushed their way in the Ministry. Proclamations about patient protection and the different levels of schools are relevant and I do not want to question them, but the unspoken one is missing and this is the defence of the own interests of those critics, which I do not intend to discuss controversially here. [[10.30 hours]] The attempt to defend itself with a flat-rate cheaper competition is evident and can also be demonstrated by the Prime Minister's position after a meeting with chamber representatives. But the situation is getting complicated. Today it is not just about money in the health sector, but I would say that today and especially in the future it will be about enough qualified people. That is why the Association of Regions and Hospitals and the Prime Minister's vision and perhaps the responsible minister have been given a broader dimension to clarify the problem. In the end, the problem became also media gratitude. Minister, if we can't regulate the numbers of foreigners who study at our medical faculties free of charge, I don't mean teaching in English that brings money to schools, then we have to raise our students' numbers to the current limit, and we can't do that without money. The problem, however, is where to quickly take new educators, spaces, technology. If the result comes, it's not until 10 years from now. But we're short of doctors now. You don't have to go all the way to border regions or structurally affected regions. For example, getting dentists or pediatricians will be a problem in many villages as well as in cities. They know that in the municipalities, in hospitals, on the outskirts, but mainly disabled citizens. If health insurance companies or the state cannot guarantee their citizens from the Constitution of the Czech Republic the right to affordable health care in all designated places of the Czech Republic, then something was and is wrong. It is therefore irresponsible not to meet at least a partial solution to the lack of medical personnel and to create artificially excessive barriers. Yes, we must respect European law, but not by a system such as a bag of doughnuts or a tsunami of water batteries. In Saxony, for example, if they have found a more helpful way to obtain aprobation, why not learn a lesson? This does not mean that we open our way to false doctors, scoundrels, shamans, or gold diggers, or those who only want to go through our country with a slightly acquired qualification. There are a number of professional chambers in our Republic. Not all powers are delegated to certain public administration performances. In health care, this privilege exists and there are demands of chambers for other competences. I know, it's not easy. The Ministry of Health shares competence not only with chambers, but especially with insurance companies, public administration, professional companies and with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and perhaps with other bodies, but also with the current state and especially for the future health of citizens of the Czech Republic is responsible for the Ministry of Health, and perhaps the Ministry of Health as well as the entire government would be better said. Our doctors and nurses are going to Austria and Germany, but this global migration movement does not stop there. The Germans are going to Switzerland or Great Britain. From here to the U.S. and from there to Australia. We are witnessing the free movement of people, and thus the tunneling of the country's intellectual potential and means of education. We have no choice but to adapt to this system. Dear Minister, time has shifted with the curtain, and a number of considerations, as I see in the media, have shifted. I therefore ask you again to answer the questions I sent you in my written interview. Calm the professional public and interested in your authoritarian opinion. I'll try to simplify the questions in a more formal way. The probation exam will be divided... [[He coughs and goes out for a drink.]] Well, you got me asking questions! [[Fun.]] Will the term and probation exam be divided according to fields such as state exams in medical doctors? If the tested in a field fails, will it only repeat the failed exam in that field? Is the Ministry prepared to inspire the way of carrying out aprobation tests abroad, for example in Saxony? And that's it for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u31	So now the Minister is interested in the performance, so I will ask Minister Adam Vojtěch to speak, and the Member will, of course, have the opportunity to speak again. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Members, I also have a bit of a scratch on my throat, so I hope I can manage. Anyway, I'm taking the liberty of reacting to the performance, virtually. interpelation related to aprobation tests. You have certainly described the situation here, I would say, quite well and it is true that the question of staffing in health care has a number of sub-problematics not only, as far as foreigners from third countries are concerned, but also the question of ensuring in the future some natural reproduction of an ageing medical population. Not only the medical, but the nurses, but here we were talking mostly about doctors. It should be said that the Ministry of Health in this regard has been in the past, I would say rather passive in terms of some analysis of how the structure of the medical population will actually develop in the future. We have created a model within the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, and it is clear from this that the current number of graduates of medical faculties, as set up today and in principle does not change, is about a thousand graduates per year, of which 800 seem to be going into practice, the rest will disappear somewhere - either going abroad or going completely out of the field, but 800 are going into practice. That's a fundamentally constant number. Thus, this number is not enough for the natural reproduction of an ageing medical population. That's just a fact that's documented on the data. That is why we have also started working intensively in cooperation with the medical faculties and we want to strongly support the medical faculties so that more Czech students can be accepted. Because the problem is that funding medical schools isn't entirely optimal. Medical faculties don't get enough money to cover the cost of one medical student. The study of medicine costs about 117 thousand crowns a year per student, the faculty gets about 67 percent of it covered. The rest are now being replaced by foreigners and other sources. So we want the funding of faculties to be better in this regard, to cover the costs and, on the contrary, to increase the money, and we're counting on it, and there's an agreement that we're going to increase the number of students in medical faculties by 15 percent. This has already been agreed with all the deans, we are now finishing the final material with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and we will create a ten-year action plan to support medical faculties. Since September, medical faculties have received CZK 135 million from the next year in order to prepare for the larger recruitment, and from the next academic year 2019/2020, the number of students, Czech students of medical faculties will be increased. So this is some intention, in terms of Czech students, Czech doctors. As for those foreign doctors or health care workers, I must agree with you, of course, as you described the migration here. That's right. We need to be aware and admit that to some extent we do not do well in the Czech health care without foreign workers, and it is something that is common everywhere. I spoke with the German Minister of Health who told me that 50,000 nurses are missing in Germany, that they simply do not have them physically and that they are also looking abroad - in Macedonia and in other countries. Migration is big, and we simply need to focus on getting foreign workers here, because to some extent we can't do without them, even though it is certainly not a wholesome solution, and I would say that this is rather a solution to solve some problems in specific locations, in particular regions. [[10.40 hours]] It is true that since the written interpellation that I have responded to and with which you were not entirely satisfied, the situation has also evolved. We have dealt with representatives of professional chambers, which are largely perhaps not entirely objective, it is true that often even very, I would say, aggressive in their comments. Then we dealt with regional representatives, because the regions themselves actually came up with the need for these workers and that it is simply not possible to end the whole project, the project Ukraine. I myself personally visited a number of hospitals in the most affected regions such as the Karlovy Vary Region, the Ústí Region, where the problem is the biggest, and I discussed it with the chieftains and the directors of those hospitals. They simply confirmed that, first, they need Ukrainian doctors or doctors from third countries, and second, that the real aprobation tests, as set up, are - I would not say strict - set in such a way that it is difficult to do or perform them positively. It is true that we have already prepared a change at the Ministry of Health which is based on the amendment of Act No. 95/2004 Coll., on postgraduate doctoral education. The amendment was approved last year. On this basis, it was prepared at the Ministry by a decree laying down the probation and examination rules which entered into force or was published in the Collection of Laws 21. 6. 2018. This is the first partial measure in which we aim to improve the process and the probation procedure. Because the biggest problem today is basically the oral part. The aprobation exam has a written, practical and oral part. The oral success rate is about 10 percent, which is a very low number. The students, or the doctors, the schoolchildren, are just about to prepare for the oral part within the practical part. So far, there have not been clear rules on how the practical part is to take place, so by this change, by the decree, we have set some rules, some clear educational program according to which the practical part is to be conducted, as well as that it has to be carried out on pre-approved accredited facilities under the direct supervision or professional guidance of relevant health professionals, i.e. Czech physicians with appropriate professional erudition, in short, that the practical part has qualitative parameters such that it prepares the foreign doctor for the oral part of the probation exam as best possible, because there is simply the biggest problem. The second thing you're talking about, and that's where the Ministry of Health's opinion has really developed since then, is how the oral part is to be conceived. It is true that today the situation is set so, or the test is set so that on one day the doctor must do essentially four state examinations, with the fact that if he does not do even one of them, he must repeat them all again. That means there's no way at least one counts if she does it. That is, I would say, wrong, and that is why we are now planning further changes in the aprobation test. We are already convinced that changes are to be made, and we are also preparing them in cooperation with the professional public, in cooperation with IPVZ, with the Institute of postgraduate education in health care, which is directly managed by the organisation that provides aprobation exams. We are really ready for changes in the decree. So, on the one hand, the change in the distribution of the oral exam in more days, which I think would be very helpful, and secondly, that if the student or doctor, the foreign doctor, did one test and didn't do, maybe another three, or did two and two, he simply didn't do the tests he had already passed. I think that this is quite logical and that it should not degrade the quality of the probation exam, which, of course, we cannot completely reduce, we cannot completely reduce the requirements of content, it would probably not be right, but as far as organisational character is concerned, as it is set, there I think there is room for change. Plus, we'd like it to be a little bit more practical in the course of the probation exam, so that maybe the chief of some county hospital, just so it's not too academic, even though with all due respect I don't want to be negative to the honored professors, professors from medical schools, but I think a practical view would be good. These are also things that we want to deal with in order to simply have investigators there who may be more practical, perhaps, in a district hospital. We deal with these things, we prepare them, and I'm sure I'll be happy to inform you about them when we have them on paper. We really want to do this, we believe that this is the right way. Just give us a little more time to prepare it in some kind of written form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u33	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová wishes to perform. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u34	Thank you for the floor. I thank the Minister for his answers. At first, I thought from your answers that you wouldn't get to the merit of my questions. I understand they've been misinterpreted. But I think in the end, you actually answered what I asked. Maybe I'm just missing some kind of timetable where you want to come up with it in other plans, and on the very specific issues that we've both named here, so maybe I'd just ask you personally to figure out what your time horizon is. Because, as I have said here, it is not a question of some perspective of years, but it is really a question that we need to start this as soon as possible because it is the current situation and it is a big problem. Perhaps I would really like to say that I am glad that you are talking about the most affected regions such as Karlovy Vary and Ústecký. I must say, unfortunately, we also have situations from the Ústí Region that, although the scholarships which were concluded and which were accepted by our students, even the scholarships could not commit these students to entering hospitals in our regions. Unfortunately, in many cases, they return or pay back and the doctors are not finished to work, but the graduate doctors go where the heart drags them and they see a better vision for their future. I'm not suggesting rejection. Thank you, and maybe we'll just fill in some information between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u35	Thank you. Would you like to get out? So Mr. Health Minister Adam Vojtěch. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the timetable, we are already working on this, on the material, on the amendment of the probation exam, and we want the new rules to be followed in autumn. We'll work very hard on this over the summer. If all goes well and it is not torpedoed in some way, because of course it will have to go into comments again etc. and it can be expected that there may be some opposition on the part of some professional chambers, I hope it will not, so we would like the new rules to be tried and rehearsals already in the autumn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u37	Thank you. Mr Pavel Plzák is enrolled in the general debate. Please. And in the meantime, I'll read one apology. He apologizes between 15 and 19 a.m. today for the hearing by Mr Jaroslav Bžoch. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A serious colleague, colleagues, as a doctor and a member of the medical chamber, I am actually concerned about this subject, and I would like to say in brief something that may not have been mentioned here. First of all, education. It should be said that, apart from those students who study here in a foreign language and pay for this education, there are also students who study in the Czech language and are not citizens of the Czech Republic who are also paid for the education. I don't know how many there are at this time, but there was a time when there were almost one third of them. And of course, some remain, some leave. The question is whether, within the European Union, because it applies to the whole of the European Union, something can be done about it, perhaps the Minister could say so. Then to the departure of the doctors and the middle medical staff. That's the thing the medical chamber points to... Fifteen years maybe, as I remember, it was handled at conventions. And there are several reasons. Some were mentioned, some weren't. If I take it in order - education. Yes. We set up a problematic education here, and it was one of the reasons the doctors left. Something's wrong with that. As the Minister said, we're trying to make amends. Money. If there weren't a shortage of doctors and nurses, I think there would be nothing going on with the funding and salaries of this staff until today. We've been here for 20 years, as a paramedic, I can confirm it, listening to the fact that we deserve better salaries, even those nurses deserved it, but unfortunately, we're never left. While the republic was being robbed, there was never anything left for a doctor. And the doctors handled it the way they handled it, they just voted with their feet and went abroad. What can we do about it? And the trend and the patterns, of course, affect other doctors and continue to this day. I hope we can stop this trend. The third thing is bureaucracy. Please, when I return to my maternity home, I sign several safety directives. I could take that all day to read it before I sign it. The accreditation activity of some of these private subjects is so incredible, so creative that I personally can't deal with it. It's a matter of regions that ordered those accreditations, I think there's also another big problem. And the last thing that concerns not only medical and moderate medical conditions, but also teachers. The credibility of this condition. I remember a time when nurses were beloved beings, whom everyone was very happy to thank for everything. Today, one of the reasons why they don't want to go into the business is how not only patients treat them, I don't say flat-rate, but also families. Today, nurses in some departments are literally being bullied, and families who have slow visiting hours all day sit with their patients and call their sisters to wipe their mouths and scold them for leaving their grandmother with their mouths wiped clean. At the same time, they could have done it in peace. And today, when families are forced to be present in the operating room at the time of surgery... I beg you, which chef in a restaurant would allow the diners in that restaurant to come and watch as they prepare their lunch? And they enforce it and say they have a right to do so. And this whole situation is so incredibly annoying to the environment that those sisters are really saying, "We don't need this, we can really find another job with that money." But I don't know if there's anything we can do about this, because we have everything for free, and people treat it as a free service, and sometimes they treat those sisters as maids. And I don't know if he has a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u39	Thank you, honourable Member. I will look around the hall to see if there is any interest in speaking in the general debate. I don't see any interest, but I'm interested in a point of fact here. So, Mrs Adámková. Please. In the meantime, I'll read one apology. For all afternoon, Mr Ondřej Profant apologizes for reasons of work. So, in fact, Madame, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u40	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I consider interpelations in the field of health to be important and beneficial, so whether we agree or disagree. Thank you for interpelling the engineer Aulická, thank you very much for interpelling the very well prepared answers to Minister Vojtěch. I would like to say one more aspect of the matter that is burdened by the people who are there today and daily, and that is a sense of uncertainty. Remember, anyone can step up and accuse in this trial, as Dr. Plzák said, the nurse, but also the doctor, that he did something wrong. I'm passing the time when it's right. Of course, everyone has the right to complain if there is something wrong, let them do so. There's nothing about that. But it's more or less like bullying the state. And as for the education, of course, I think it has been said very well that the rules must be set in the same way, because it is not possible for us to leave our insured people in that health care to someone where we don't know what this person can do. It just can't be done. That is why education is entering and we will continue to work with it. As far as supporting this situation is concerned, frankly, if anyone complains about any of the colleagues in this room right now, whether he's a doctor or a nurse or a rehabilitation worker, that he's done something wrong, I assure you that almost every law firm will be very happy to take the complaint, because the doctor has more or less no support, and in most cases the medic will be the bad guy who has to prove that it's a little different. The big problem that is now and which is beginning to appear in bed rooms is the permission or non-approval with resuscitation of heavily ill persons. So the problem is very wide, people are expressing their will, and the family doesn't respect it, and the department is suing it anyway. So I think that health care needs to be addressed comprehensively -- yes -- so that we can do all the things we promised our constituents, but also to preserve the quality, but also to protect those paramedics. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u41	Thank you. At this point, I have no application for a general debate, so I am ending the general debate with this. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová has already informed me that she does not want to propose any resolution on this interpelation. Then I will terminate this interview, but since I have not noticed any agreement between the presidents of the MPs, so before I announce a break within 11 hours, let me inform you that Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is excused from this afternoon's intercession. And since there's only about three of these interpelations, we're gonna continue with the interpelations to the ministers. This means, I would like to draw the attention of both the Ministers and the Minister and the honourable Members to the fact that there will be an hour and a half to the Prime Minister's interpellation, but that we can follow up very quickly. So that you may be present, if necessary, who did the interpelling, and the ministers too. Then I'll call a break in 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u42	I'll be on my way, 11:00. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. We have solid points ahead of us. The first is paragraph 89 - the Ombudsman's report on the Ombudsman's activities, the House's press 138 second reading, the House's press 139 also about personal data, the related law and item 17, and this is also the House's press 131 and it is in the first reading. We would then discuss any other points according to the approved agenda. Let me remind you that at 12.30, we have firmly classified points 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79 and 80, i.e. polling points. But now is a moment for any Members' speeches, for amendments approved on the agenda, our 16th meeting. The first is Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová in writing, I see Mr Skopeček. Please, Madame, you have the floor with your proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u43	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to ask you and propose to include paragraph 63 in tomorrow's meeting, House Press 120, as the fourth point after the already firmly placed points. I am saying this for the reason that the changes that we have in this press on pension insurance mean increasing the basic income or raising, and of course we have other amendments to discuss, so that these changes can actually be prepared, so we need to discuss this press tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u44	Okay, thank you. A colleague of Kupka is now reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u45	Thank you for the floor. I would like to propose as a new item at this meeting the appointment of the Czech Government, because there is already a number of conflicting information in the media about how many lists there were. Mr. President Netolický speaks of two, the Prime Minister rejects it, says there was in fact only one list. In that case, it is not clear what was actually on the list, what were the names, for example, in the box for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Given that this is a very important constitutional act, one of the most important things that we have before us throughout this parliamentary term, we can experience it, so I think it is absolutely essential that we learn from the actors of the appointment, how it was, how many lists are in the hands of the President. I assume that the Chamber of Deputies, which gives the government confidence, will be interested in this and that you will support the inclusion of this point. Because starting the government with the fact that it isn't even clear what the initiation point looked like, if that government wasn't based on a lie from the very beginning, it is, of course, the key thing for us to express ourselves to and that we should be interested in. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u46	Thank you, colleague Kupek. Mr Kubíček now also has the floor on the agenda. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u47	Thank you for the floor, I give the veto to place this point on behalf of two clubs, YES and ČSSD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u48	Okay. Well, thank you. The chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, who announced that he had a replacement card number 9, will now take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u49	Thank you for the floor. I fully respect that, but I am very surprised by the attitude of colleagues from ČSSD. They were many top politicians of the ČSSD who criticized President Zeman in recent weeks, months and years, and many introduced this as a new political concept, for the creative interpretation of the Constitution. And I would say that the criticism was justified in many cases. And from yesterday we can see that, in addition to President Zeman, President of Social Democracy, Jan Hamáček, who claims that there was only one list, and that he was appointed Secretary of State in full compliance with the Constitution, which cannot be true. I already told you yesterday there are only two options. Either Jan Hamáček was proposed as Secretary of State and it is another humiliation of social democracy, but it is all in accordance with the Constitution, because - the Minister of Justice is not here, so I expected that perhaps today he would answer the question of how it should be according to the Constitution and how it was. Or there is a second possibility that the President of the Republic entrusted Jan Hamáček with the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs without the Prime Minister's proposal, and that is simply not in accordance with the Constitution. I understand today's veto that the Social Democrats are joining those who have a creative interpretation of the Constitution and whose shirts are closer than coats. That, for his short-term political gain, he would throw away the constitutional tradition, the Constitution itself, the rules of combat, the political struggle. On 11 July we are to decide whether or not the Chamber of Deputies will give or trust the government of the Czech Republic, but we do not have clear whether the government has been appointed in accordance with the Constitution. And we have designed that point for today precisely because of this procedural debate, which, of course, is crucial - or is it not crucial to uphold the Constitution? Remember, let us all remember the text of the promise of the Member of the House of Parliament of the Czech Republic. What did we promise? First of all, we promised to follow the Constitution. Suddenly, when it doesn't suit us, someone, of course, the Social Democrats don't want to admit color, even though they have a lot of strong talk about how they insist on their nominee and that there is only one list, and suddenly we have the Secretary of State of the Interior. If we can't talk about it today, we'll try to talk about it on every next day of the Chamber of Deputies, no later than July 11. But you just can't run away from the problem. Either Jan Hamáček was on the list, and then it's in full compliance with the Constitution, or he wasn't, and there's been a violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u50	That was Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura. Who's next on the agenda? If no one, we will vote on individual points. Respectfully, there's only one point. Another colleague of Kupka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u51	I would like to propose a modified form of that point, which I will once again propose for discussion, because I really consider it essential. But they are not members of the opposition who would bring in a vague and double interpretation. They are members of their own coalition who say that there are probably two lists, or we can at least read it from the mouth of the Governor of Netolický. And there are a number of serious contradictions in the expression of the leading representatives of the ČSSD and the ANO movement. [[11.10 hours]] I consider it necessary, both in Parliament and in relation to the citizens of the Czech Republic, to make it clear how the act actually took place, whether the Constitution has been violated or not the Constitution has been violated and how it is with fulfilling the fundamental coalition promises. Without that answer, I'm afraid it's very difficult to even come up with confidence in the government. Thank you for your attention and I very much hope that you will allow the Czech public and the House to know what it was like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u52	Yes, that's quite an option. The chairman of the ANO club Jaroslav Faltýnek is now registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u53	Thank you. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I apologize for the late arrival and allow me, on behalf of our club and the social democracy club, to veto the inclusion of this new point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-28-ps2017-016-03-001-103.u54	Thank you, so it's an unvoted proposal. I will now read the apology made by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Petr Gazdík apologizes to us from today's meeting due to negotiations in the electoral region. We will now vote on the transfer of paragraph 63, House Press 120, as proposed by my colleague Aulická in her speech, in the vote number 46, which I launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 46. Of the 143 Members present 116 pros, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that item 63 has been reassigned according to the proposal of my colleague Aulická. We will now return to the approved agenda and it is item number
