ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u1	6. Government bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services and the conditions for their provision (Health Services Act), as amended /German press 262/ - second reading Please, under the authority of the Government, give the bill to the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me therefore make a proposal for an amendment to the Act on Medicines, which is the subject of press No. 262. This bill, which amends the Act on Medicines, is presented because of the need for the implementation of European Union regulations affecting regulation in the field of medicines, in two areas. The first series of amendments concerns the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products. It is the implementation of two regulations and one European Union directive governing the rules for the implementation of inspection procedures for good clinical practice and principles and guidelines for good manufacturing practice for assessed medicinal products for human use. The second group, from my point of view more fundamental and much more discussed, concerns the implementation of the European Union regulation 216/161, which lays down the rules on the protective elements mentioned on the packaging of medicinal products for human use. Following the entry into force of this Regulation, a system for verifying the authenticity of medicinal products throughout the European Union will be established and launched. This is often called a short-term anti-counterfeit directive. The purpose is to lay down uniform rules on the introduction of protective elements for verifying the authenticity and integrity of the packaging of medicinal products by the operators concerned. With the verification of the main protection element called the unique identifier is related to the establishment of the repository system. These storages will be established at national level, i.e. the Czech Republic, and at the EU-wide level throughout the European Union, in which individual identifiers will be stored, which will subsequently be verified when dispensing the medicinal product via the electronic system. Within the Czech Republic, the repository is prepared through the National Organization for Authentication of Drugs. It should be noted that the verification of the authenticity of medicinal products under the Regulation on protective elements is ensured by the last article of the supply chain which the medicinal products issue to the final consumer. In the vast majority of cases, these are pharmacies. However, the regulation allows Member States to anchor a different regime for certain situations. Due to the specific system of distribution of vaccines, the Czech Republic has used the possibility to modify differently the rules for the verification of medicinal products that are distributed for the purpose of regular, exceptional and special - compulsory - vaccination and optional but also covered by public health insurance. Verification of the authenticity and elimination of the unique identifier will in this case be the obligation of the distributor. The definition of such validated medicinal products depends on the regulation of strictly defined conditions under which such an exemption may be anchored. Only in these vaccines can we clearly see their public element as a result of being paid for by public health insurance or by the Ministry of Health budget. In this area, the Czech Republic has made the most of the legal possibilities that the Regulation on Protection Elements allows it, however further expansion of this spectrum of preparations beyond the provided regulation would put the Czech Republic at risk of a penalty for infringement of the law of the European Union. [[Anything at all?]] In this sense, I know that an amendment is announced, which would actually address the issue of all vaccines, including those that are optional and unprotected. But I must reiterate that, indeed, although the Ministry supports, as far as possible, the vaccination of the population of the Czech Republic and sees it as a public safety insurance policy ensuring public health, and it is certainly not our intention to reduce the level of vaccination of the population, however, we still have to bear in mind the fact that, as European Union law is given, virtually. these regulations, which we implement by law, must be respected, and it is simply not possible for us to go beyond the limits of the regulation, as we might wish. Unfortunately, this is not possible, we would put ourselves at risk of violating primary law and the resulting sanctions against the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to call on you to approve this proposal as far as possible, particularly in relation to the Czech Republic's obligations arising from its membership of the European Union. In view of the forthcoming deadline for the entry into force of the Safeguards Regulation, which will take place on 9 February 2019, I also submit that, in the course of the debate, I will request a reduction in the deadline between second and third reading for 7 days. So let me summarize that the aim of the proposal is to ensure, as far as possible, the safety of medicinal products in the Czech Republic within the framework of the implementation of the European Union regulation, that there will be no counterfeit medicinal products in the Czech Republic, and therefore, of course, to ensure the protection of patients. I would like to ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u3	Thank you, Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee on guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 262/1 and 262/2. I thank the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Miloslav Janulík, for taking the position at the rapporteur's table, and I will now ask him to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The committee discussed the amendment in question with the fact that it recommended, as the Minister said quite comprehensively, for approval, that we have so far received one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine amendments, which I presume my colleagues will read. In the system they have headings 1816, 1817, 1853, 1862, 1863, 1868, 1875, 1876 and 1877. You can look them up. I think that's basically enough for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the short report. I am opening a general debate in which I have signed up for Mrs Věra Adámková and Mr David Kasal, so far. I will ask Mrs Věra Adámková to speak in the general debate. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. Implementation of various directives, if you know that they are very necessary, usually also have sanctions there. Since the incidence of counterfeits in our Republic is more or less illusionary and our pharmacists have always behaved very responsibly, I am proposing an amendment here because he could impose a penalty of up to CZK 2 million here. The minimum sum is 300,000. I therefore believe that it would be appropriate for us to really allow our pharmacists there to get to know everything. So that, first of all, there would really be only the minimum sum, or not 2 million, but 300,000 in the event of a breach. Not conscious, please, I don't mean if someone did something consciously, which is not a threat to us, it doesn't happen, it really doesn't. [[16.30 hours]] And otherwise there is a number of obligations for the pharmacist, when he has to follow the recording code, to work with this material. That is why I think that we really should be serious to them there, because we have no reason to believe that our pharmacy service would want to do anything wrong. It has never done them, and I therefore believe that we should remain at the minimum value and not at the maximum value. Moreover, I think it would be advantageous that the amount of fines that are really in millions for delinquency for pharmacies operators would have to be a really conscious mistake. Not that someone in the framework of the implementation of the directive will simply do some trivial thing, because I think it would not really be serious towards them. There are really no counterfeits in our country, we had no problems with that, although, as I say, I understand that implementation of the directive is necessary, there is no doubt about that. I also think that it would be advantageous if we postponed these sanctions by the end of 2019 so that it would be really time to implement the directive, implement all the mechanisms, and then we could only proceed to those, say, hard enforcement criteria. Otherwise, this amendment is a House document of 1875 and I will sign up for it in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u7	Thank you, Mrs Věra Adámková, for her performance. I'm registering her application for a detailed debate. And now, Mr David Kasal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u8	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you in my speech to the proposal that has already been made in the Prime Minister's preface, when I will be the one with the other seven Members across the political spectrum, which will submit an amendment concerning vaccines. I think it would be good to introduce you to certain details, because for me, if something works very well and has a higher standard than the European Union standard, and it is about protecting the health of our people, so I was elected by the people of the Czech Republic to Parliament of the Czech Republic and should defend their interests. Let me tell you the most basic points about this. The Czech Republic currently has the most advanced and health-risk system for the distribution of vaccines in Europe, which fully meets the needs of both the thermolable vaccine system, the nature of the vaccines, and fully reflects the highest health demands of the 21st century. Clear evidence for this claim may also be that, as one of the few similar systems, it is supported by all its key participants, namely health insurance companies, professional companies, manufacturers, distributors of vaccines. The proposed amendment to the Act on Medicinal Products amends the completely illogical distribution of the vaccine distribution scheme without appropriate technical justification. By excluding medicinal products used for optional non-replaced vaccination from a set of vaccines that can be distributed directly by doctors, health service providers, is created completely illogical without any relevant reason, which brings about a number of pitfalls. [[What?]] These are, in particular, the following clearly identified problems: Firstly, complete resignation to observe the cold chain, i.e. the appropriate method of preservation of vaccines when these are issued by the pharmacy and subsequently delivered by the patient to the treating physician for the purpose of administration. Completely simple example: If you choose a vaccine, you know how warm it was this year, so when you carry it in your purse or if you leave it behind the car window, you easily boil it there, and after two hours, if the vaccine gets to the doctor, I understand that the doctor has a big problem to apply it, because it will in principle be ineffective and the doctor cannot afford it. For further, the regime of dispensing medicinal products to a medical facility for a request is currently not subject to regulation of compliance with and proof of storage and transport conditions for thermolable medicinal products, as is the standard for distribution under the rules of good distribution practice. Another risk is non-compliance with storage conditions and it is essential from the perspective of the following demonstration of lege artis procedure in the event of any side effects. From this point of view, opposition can be expected to bear legal responsibility for the administration of the vaccine by doctors and it is only very problematic to expect acceptance of the risk of developing adverse effects by producers. It should be borne in mind that if there is an error in the preservation of the vaccine from the time of delivery to the doctor and as a result of its damage or impairment, it will be a defective product from the point of view of the Civil Code. In accordance with Section 2936 of the Civil Code, the competent health service provider is responsible for the damage caused by the use of a defective object in the provision of health services, even if it has not caused the defect in any way. When the vaccine is delivered by a distributor, the risk of vaccine damage due to incorrect preservation is minimized by the rules of good distribution practice and compliance with it is continuously controlled by the State Institute for Drug Control. Come in. The patient will be forced to pick up a prescription from the doctor in many cases, then get and buy a vaccine in the pharmacy and travel to the doctor's office again and get the vaccine administered. Thus, patients will be unnecessarily burdened by this administration and by obtaining a vaccine in pharmacies just because they want to protect their health beyond compulsory vaccination. Another risk. Doctors who will not be willing to send patients to pharmacies with a prescription will be dependent on the availability of vaccines in a network of public pharmacies and, at the same time, on the willingness of operators of these pharmacies to provide regional service to ensure the delivery itself to the office. From the point of view of the producers, there is also a risk of low possibility of obtaining supplies of vaccines to the Czech Republic, especially in the possibility of zero control of stocks and consumption in distribution through a network of public pharmacies. Another risk is that there will also be an increase in the administrative burden for treating physicians, as each provider will be forced to choose a combination of the following methods of vaccination with regard to the availability of vaccines. Either negotiate a pharmacy willing to deliver vaccines to the doctor's office on demand, or pick up the vaccine personally at the pharmacy, or choose the way to pick up the vaccine in the pharmacy by the patient based on the prescription. It should also be pointed out here that there are a number of vaccines available in two logically and logistically distinct regimes. Thus, one of the same vaccines will be delivered directly by a distributor to the doctor if it is paid in the present case, so only to the pharmacy if it is not paid. The resolution of both possible modes is unnecessarily administratively demanding from the doctor's point of view, it is planning, buying and registering the funds, and it will not bring any benefit to the patient. For the reasons set out above, it is appropriate to maintain the current legislation, which in practice does not pose any practical problems and constitutes an entirely acceptable administrative burden. And finally. In the light of the proposed amendment related to the adoption of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/161 of 2 October 2015 supplementing Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, laying down detailed rules on the protective elements on the packaging of medicinal products for human use, it is therefore not necessary and it is appropriate to divide the obligation to verify the safety features between the pharmacy and the distributor from the logic of the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u9	I thank Mr David Kasal and ask who else is reporting to the general debate because I have no other written application. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. We can go to the debate in detail, because no proposal that can be voted after the general debate has been completed has fallen. I ask if there is an interest in the final speech after the general debate. Mr. Secretary? No. Mr. Rapporteur? Not either. We can therefore launch a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. We have registered, Mrs Karla Maříková is the first registered, Mrs Věra Adámková will prepare. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby refer to my three amendments, which are read into the system as House documents 1816, 1817 and 1853. The first revised amendment regulates the obligation of the distributor to withdraw from the operator authorised to supply such a medicinal product for which the protection features cannot be verified or the removal of the unique identifier is carried out, no later than seven days after the date of notification of the operator to the distributor of the unsuccessful verification of the safety features or the execution of the removal of the unique identifier. The second amendment, which is read in the system as House document 1817, provides that the statutory obligation to verify the safety features and to carry out the removal of the unique identifier for all medicinal products supplied with the protection features is not identical to that already provided for in the Regulation on Protection Elements. This amendment also proposes the inclusion of offences committed by providers of health services authorised to issue medicinal products at a fine rate of a maximum of 300 000. crowns and more serious offences up to 2 miles. CZK, since the original amount of the fines is disproportionate for the operators of pharmacies for offences, which are intended to consist only in individual errors in the verification of the safety features, the dispensation of medicinal products. There are historically no counterfeits in the Czech Republic, so possible errors will have no impact on patients' health, they will be explicitly errors with purely administrative consequences. The third amendment, which is read in the system as House document 1853. It excludes homeopathic preparations from medicinal products issued under medical prescription. This amendment responds to the current paradoxical state where the effect of homeopathic medicines is publicly questioned by scientific authorities and compared with similar placebo. At the same time, homeopathics are marketed in the Czech Republic as medicinal products. There is also a detailed justification for these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u11	Thank you, Mrs Maříková. Now, Mrs Věra Adámková, Mr David Kasal will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby refer to my amendment, House document 1875, which I introduced you to in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Now, Mr David Kasal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I am applying to my House document 1868 and have justified it in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u15	Thank you, Mr David Kasal. Now, Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u16	Thank you. I would like to sign up for four amendments, which are under the numbers 1862, 1863, 1876 and 1877. Very briefly to the individual. The State Institute for Drug Control has no legal option today to organise commercial and non-commercial lecture activities, to train manufacturers and distributors of pharmaceuticals, to cooperate on awareness campaigns of other institutions and authorities, and to this end, to collect small participation fees. This amendment allows the pharmaceutical authority to do so. Another amendment shortly. It responds to an inconspicuous situation, which is based directly on a regulation of the European Union, which says that free-market drugs which are not on a special list must not be accompanied by protective elements, not necessarily, but must not. It is illogical, but it means quite a lot of logistical difficulties, because the way in which it is dispensed, whether it is a prescription medicine or a free-selling medicine, varies between individual countries of the European Union, hence what is freely sold e.g.. in Poland, it can be a recipe for us. This amendment addresses the situation in such a way that if the manufacturer voluntarily provides a free-trade drug with a protective element against opening e.g. because it has to do this for other markets, so it is okay and we will not insist that protective elements disappear from the Czech packaging of these products. Another responds to sanctions associated with the implementation of the anti-counterfeit amendment. And the last amendment is that pharmacies have legal certainty that the medicines that they fail to give to the patient, for example, because they are unable to verify or disable them, will be able to return to the distributor within two weeks and will be able to recover the costs with the marketing authorisation holder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u17	Thank you, Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Now, the Minister of Health has declared himself in a detailed debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam President, honourable Members, as I have already announced in my introductory words, in view of the forthcoming deadline for the entry into force of the regulation on protective elements, which we are implementing by the amendment to the Act on Medicines, and will take effect on 9 February 2019, I would now like to ask for a reduction in the deadline between second and third readings for seven days. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-04-ps2017-024-01-005-006.u19	Thank you, Minister. Who's next for a detailed debate? I don't have a written application, and I don't see anyone from anywhere. We will therefore vote on the proposal to shorten the deadline to seven days, which has fallen in the debate and is voteable. I'll call a colleague from the lobby who I've asked to conduct discussions outside the O.R., and I'll sign you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And once the number of entries is settled, we will vote number 20. The number of entries is stabilized. I have begun voting number 20 and I ask who is to shorten the deadline between second and third reading to seven days. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 20, 131 Members present for 99 against 6. The motion was accepted. This was the only proposal that could be voted at second reading, which fell in the debate. I can therefore thank the Minister of Health and the rapporteur and end this item, the first item of second reading at this meeting. We're gonna keep going, and that's a point.
