ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-004-015.u1	15. Government bill amending Act No. 280/2009 Sb., Tax Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 47/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 Here was proposed procedure under § 90, para. 2 and a veto of two clubs, KDU-ČSL and ODS was submitted here during the meeting. So we're going to continue the first reading process as standard. At the moment, Mr Marek Benda is in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-004-015.u2	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I made my main reservations clear yesterday. Madam Secretary promised to respond to them, so maybe now I'd create room for a possible response from the Minister, and maybe then I'll lead the argument further. I think that the fact that I want to propose the commandment of this bill to the constitutionally legal committee was clear yesterday. I'd rather leave the Minister's chance to respond to what was said yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-004-015.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And Madam Secretary is interested in a performance. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-004-015.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I take the liberty of responding to Mr Benda. If I have correctly noted the suggestions and questions yesterday, I will answer as follows. The implementation of DAC 5 is now implemented in about half of the countries of the European Union, while France and Slovakia, for the sake of interest, have gone the same way as we have, which means the way of a more general procedural regulation. Other reactions and comments. DAC 5 requires all tax administrators to have access to data, i.e. not only the Financial or Customs Administration. So I confirm what was said here yesterday by the Member that this could, of course, also affect the administrator of local charges, because it is also the tax administrator. That, of course, is undoubtedly true. However, from the nature of the matter they will be excluded from this option because they would have to prove that they need it for their particular agenda. For example, municipalities managing the dog's fee certainly do not need the vast majority of these data and would be difficult to prove that they are in charge of tax administration for this particular area, so they must not even obtain them from the nature of the matter. In essence, this concerns mainly international cooperation in tax administration, and de facto only a very small and small fraction of tax administrators, particularly the Financial and Customs Administration. This means, in practice, there cannot be a situation in which municipalities dealing with, for example, fees, this is a classic example of tax administration, require some information, or may at all require information from obliged persons, such as lawyers. As far as control mechanisms are concerned, as was mentioned here yesterday, this is not news. Tax administrators today normally deal with many sensitive data. They have them above-standardly and fully standard tax management mechanisms work, i.e. both internal and external, whether it be tax-order protection, judicial protection, supervisory authorities such as the Office for Personal Data Protection, tax confidentiality. This means that I think here is the control mechanisms that preserve and protect these data, a whole series of them. I don't recall there ever being an affair and data being misused. Arguments of the type - I am not saying that it was said yesterday, but it was also mentioned in the legislative process, for example during debates at the Government's Legislative Council level - that the tax administrator would order, for example, an international question from Slovakia, this cannot be accepted because it would be a clear excess and abuse of power. The question needs to be clearly answered, have a connection to tax administration, it works today either... It's a reciprocal exchange, or it's an automatic exchange. All of this is subject to strict regulations, often by the European Union, because they are harmonised laws. So I kind of rule this out. I would still like to explain, in some way, in a simple way, because I admit that my opening word yesterday could have been more complicated and, of course, for those who may not be completely detailed, it might not have been entirely clear, so let me just sum up the facts. We are obliged to implement DAC 5. If we don't implement it, we're putting ourselves at risk of infringement. Again, about half of the countries of the European Union have implemented this. We are even after the implementation deadline, which expired 31. 12. 2017. And even though we had no delay at all in the preparation of this implementing regulation, of course, the election year has entered into it, so that is what it is, it is basically nobody's fault. As far as implementation goes beyond, and I do not deny that we are going to a certain extent beyond implementation, so we are going to the obliged persons, who are not covered by any professional chamber, are not representatives of the professional chambers. These are mandatory persons, such as banks, other financial institutions with banking secrets, other economic entities. And they're already required to share this information with the Financial Analysis Office today. They will now have to be communicated to the tax authorities, as I explained earlier to the tax administrator, at their request, provided that the tax administrator proves clearly... it must be clear from the file that it is tax administration. [[9.30 hours]] As far as the representatives of the professional chambers are concerned, this means explicitly stating to lawyers, notaries, tax advisors, bailiffs, auditors, there we stick strictly only to the scope of the DAC 5 implementation, meaning the extent that they already have to communicate to the Financial Analysis Office today, and certainly does not aim even the current AML regulation of the directive or DAC 5 to break their secrets arising from the legal relationship with the client, but only concerns information - it is even impossible to disclose this information, because of course it is considered legal secrecy and the secrets of these professions to be untouchable, but they are only obliged to disclose information about clients and transactions that are not legal aid, that is to say mediation of business, management of foreign property. According to statistics from the Financial Analysis Office, the cases that are reported by these professions are really units, the numbers are very, very low, so I don't expect them to increase from the point of view of DAC 5. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-004-015.u5	I thank you, Madam Secretary, and Mr Benda is reporting for the debate. And he was shaking his head, so I guess he'll have some comments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-004-015.u6	Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I was warned that yesterday I was interrupted precisely at the moment when I asked for the commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee, so, in order to be sure, once again, on the log: I recommend that this bill be ordered, in addition to the guarantee committee, to which I respect that it is a budgetary committee, also to the constitutionally-legal committee. That's a formal proposal. I further recommend that we not reduce the time limit for his hearing. That's really not an easy thing to do at all. And I think, and I must say, Madam Secretary hasn't convinced me completely at this point in time with her performance. It says: we are after the implementation deadline, but half of the European countries have implemented. This means, probably half the countries are also after the implementation period and nothing so terrible is happening. He says: Other countries like France and Slovakia have gone the same way as we have. Well, I don't know who your experience is, but should France and Slovakia really be an example to me of countries that we are supposed to follow from the point of view of internal administration and from the point of view of the protection of sensitive data? So I am almost sure in France, Slovakia is a relatively close country to us, but even there I would say that the level of sensitivity to privacy is at a different level than in the Czech Republic. So these aren't the countries I want to follow, either. And everything that sounds here, yes, corresponds to what I said here yesterday. It is for unclear reasons that instead of saying: we will deepen administrative cooperation between administrations that are already able to detect such information - and DAC 5 requires nothing other than that information that is exchanged with other countries within a country in a system. DAC 5 does not force any country to start researching more information for its information systems. And there is a situation where we say: because we want to have DAC 5, so all the things that the FAO has today exclusively for the most serious crimes, such as money laundering and the fight against terrorism, we suddenly say that theoretically, potentially, any financial authority, or even every tax administrator, as I have mentioned here, could have been involved in local charges. And we say, well, we have control mechanisms. Honestly, we don't. Tax administration has no effective control mechanisms, and it is a huge problem, what is collected with tax administrators. I understand to some extent. But believe me, I've studied a lot of writings, or at least breakdowns, which have involved, for example, the Office for Personal Data Protection, and that I feel that the tax authorities are the ones that are carefully guarded by what they keep about their "clients," or those who manage taxes that remain in those files, there is a big problem, and there are no effective control mechanisms. We have these mechanisms created against the FAO because it has such enormous powers and because we fear that these enormous powers will not be potentially abused. But to the tax authorities, it's just their internal control systems. And believe me, getting into your own file and finding out what the tax office is keeping there, and on what requests it has requested some inputs, it is far from clear. So I'm really asking that we deal with this quite deeply. To say today they're just units of cases. Well, maybe they're just a bunch of cases today. But the moment I break through, and that's how we've been through this country x-times, they say, well, that's just for the most important things, we're just gonna let that happen. We're just gonna let it go, they're gonna ask for it rationally. And then all of a sudden, we find out those applications aren't units, but they're hundreds in the first year and tens of thousands in the third year. Let's be careful. I ask very much that we deal with this proposal quite in detail as well as in relation to the breach of the mandatory confidentiality of individual other entities, and I ask that we do not reduce the deadline and order to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I think we can have another expert debate there, possibly on the board of the budget committee. But everyone, I'm warning everyone, it's not a simple transposition, it's potentially a big intervention in what we've considered to be the secrets of individual groups that provide legal or tax aid. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-004-015.u7	Thank you, too. With priority rights, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-004-015.u8	Well, I'll just keep it short. I will try to respond to Mr Benda. Once again: The fact that the information will be received in the future under DAC 5 by the tax administrator, if, of course, the legislation is adopted and becomes effective, this follows from the DAC 5 directive. It directly states that, in the future, the information communicated to the Financial Analysis Service or the Office, in fact, today to the independent office, will also be provided to tax administrators on their request, if they testify to legal interest, that is to say, the ongoing tax administration. So there's no doubt that it targets the tax administrator, that's just right in the DAC. What's beyond that, and I'm openly confessing here again, is that this information - the DAC says that the information can be requested for the purposes of international tax administration. And for a certain set of mandatory entities, they already have that obligation under the AML Directive, the tax authorities may also require it for the domestic tax administration. This concerns banks, financial institutions, other economic entities. This does not apply to lawyers, notaries, tax advisors, judicial executors, auditors, where it is implemented only to the extent of DAC. This means tax administrators, and those talking about DAC 5, may require information they need for tax administration and only in connection with ongoing international cooperation in tax management. As for the number of examples that are, of course, speculation. Nobody has a oracle ball. I was merely stating that the information to be communicated at the FAO is indeed in the order of the units, and I am unable to say, to estimate it, but I do not expect precisely for the strictness of these conditions that there would be any rapid increase. But we are unable to specify either one or the other, of course. [[9.40 hours]] The fact that there are no control mechanisms over tax administrators, I would like to say very, very serious doubts about this, and please do not question it, let us not doubt that the Financial Administration or the Customs Administration or other tax administrators, as the case may be, are dealing with these data with high caution. And again, I don't remember my entire professional career, and if you jog my memory, I'll never miss anything. Tax confidentiality is a strictly strict matter. Data protection is something that is absolutely above all, systems are built in such a way that nothing escapes. When we talked about data here several times, it's a large volume of data that gets, for example. Financial administration, whether from the inspection reports, whether from the sales log - repeat, these data are above standard protection, 20 officials in this country have access to them, all have an NBU clearance. That's one of the examples I'm giving. So please, let's not question it. The protection is really great. We realise that the Financial Administration, for example. has superior access to data, uses it for its activities and has to deal with them in this way. If we send such signals from the mouths of members of the legislature, it may cause some uncertainty. And I really would hate to, because, whatever legal secrecy it is, high sanctions, whatever it is to protect the IT system, it all works the way it's supposed to work, i.e. To protect the data, she didn't get into unauthorized hands. And again, it never happened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-004-015.u9	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Marek Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-004-015.u10	Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I must appreciate that it is refreshing that the Minister, after long years, is able to respond to the objections raised in the House and that there is a substantive debate. I'd say it's refreshing. However, I think she confirmed what I've been trying to say all along. This is not a pure transposition of European regulations. This is a transposition in which state power seeks to gain a higher degree of competence. What DAC 5 requires is merely an exchange of information between administrations that already holds the information so that tax authorities can access this information - it is mainly national. He thinks especially when the Fin are here investigating what he is doing and what he is doing to ask the Czech FAO: do you not have any knowledge of him laundering dirty money or that he has 15 accounts in the Czech Republic? It could probably be interpreted that they are also national financial authorities, virtually. tax administrators, but I don't see why they shouldn't ask the FAO and why they should ask other entities. And that is the dispute that I believe is going on, if we are to say: each tax administrator has the right to ask any of the other entities, or every tax administrator has the right to ask the FAO, which is the high level of control that we are talking about here with the Minister. That is why I think it would be worth a detailed discussion on the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-004-015.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. I don't see anyone. There is no proposal to shorten or extend. The rapporteur is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-004-015.u12	Hello. I am here representing a group of Members who are interested in shortening the time limit for discussion to 30 days, so I would like to make it an official request that we vote on my opinion and opinion of my colleague Benda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-004-015.u13	30 days, then, to shorten the term? [[Ambassador Rais agrees.]] Thank you. The debate on this point is over. Allow me to use the time to read a few apologies. Mr Jaroslav Bžoch apologizes from 25 to 26 on account of illness. Mrs Olga Richterová apologizes between 11.00 and 12.10 because of the hearing. Mr Radim Fiala apologizes from the morning meeting until 12 o'clock for work reasons. Vice-President Tomio Okamura apologizes within 13 hours for medical reasons. That's all. I ask whether there is an interest in the final words of both the Minister and the rapporteur. No, not interested. So I say that I have not noticed that there would be a motion for a return or rejection. We will therefore deal with the commandments of the committees. First, we will decide on the command of the Committee to guarantee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. I'll call in the co-workers from the lobby. So we're going to vote. Who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? This is the vote number 73, 128 Members registered, for 115, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. In the context of the general debate, Mr Marek Benda's proposal was made to refer the proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee as another committee. I ask if there is another motion on the commandment of the committee. I see no one here, so we will vote on the motion for a commandment to the Constitutional Committee as another committee. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 74, registered 128, for 81, versus 25. This proposal was adopted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as another committee. There was also a request to shorten the period for second reading pursuant to § 91 para. 2 and 3 by 30 days, i.e. 30 days. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 75, registered is 128, for 65, against 46. This proposal was adopted. We have dealt with all the votes on this point, and I am ending this point. The next item is point number
