ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-008-019.u1	19. Proposal by Members Věra Kovářová, Petr Gazdík, Jan Farský, Vít Rakušan and Jana Krutáková to issue a law amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended /German press 140/ - First Reading The Government's position has been delivered to you as House press number 140/1. I can already see the plaintiff's deputy, Mrs Věra Kovářová, that she is already settling in her place. So I'm going to ask you to present the motion as a representative of the plaintiffs. Madam, you have the floor. At the same time, the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jan Hrnčíř, is also settling. There. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-008-019.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you the draft amendment to the Value Added Tax Act submitted by the Mayors and Independents Club. The aim of this law, virtually. the proposal is to reduce the value added tax rate to public transport fares from 15 to 10 %. This amendment will allow more money to be left in public transport. Public transport is largely covered by public finances. This concerns the state, the regions and the municipalities. Therefore, it does not appear appropriate for public transport to be burdened without purpose by higher rates of VAT on fares. I remind you that the fare rate in the Czech Republic is the eighth highest rate in the European Union. Of course, if this rate goes down, of the estimates we have, one billion could essentially remain in the budget of the regions, municipalities and cities, and could cover the costs of transport services that are constantly rising. Recall the increase in the salaries of drivers, which was a government decision, which significantly increased the cost of public transport within the regions. This was partly compensated for, but nothing was compensated for by the municipalities. If this amount were to remain in their budgets, then, of course, other costs that would be due to the rise in inflation could be covered. Of course, it would be possible not to increase the fare, because there are such signals that the fare would have to increase, even though we know that there are other measures coming from the government. Of course, regions, municipalities and cities could also use this amount to improve the quality of transport services, improve connections, improve the quality of services. As far as I know, the government is going to add different services to the second reduced rate, such as repairs of clothing, even though I know that this is related to the EET. But I think that promoting the public transport of people who go to schools, to work, is the way in the right direction. And one of those trips is a reduction in value added tax on public transport fares. Therefore, I would ask you to release this proposal for second reading. Finally, I would like to say that the government has expressed a negative position and justified this by the fact that there are certain errors in our law. We are aware of this, and we have therefore prepared an amendment that sets everything in line. We consulted the Ministry of Finance on this proposal and would then submit it to the Budget Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-008-019.u3	I thank the plaintiff's representative, Mrs Věra Kovářová. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Jan Hrnčíř.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-008-019.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal by Members Věra Kovářová, Petr Gazdík, Jan Farský, Vít Rakušan and Jana Krutáková to issue a law amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, House Press 140. According to the current legislative regulation, the fare in public transport is subject to the first reduced rate of value added tax. In the view of the petitioners, the existence of public interest in the use and development of public transport is not an appropriate solution. In general, taxation increases the price of fare and is demotivating to potential customers. [[15.10 hours]] The domestic rate of VAT imposed on tariffs of 15% is the eighth highest in Europe, as has already been said here. When moving to another more appropriate tax rate, the fare may be reduced, or, while maintaining its prices, the funds not paid in taxes may be used to promote the development of public transport. They can also potentially serve to increase wages for public transport drivers who are in short supply in the Czech Republic, and the current level of wages does not provide sufficient motivation for them. At its meeting on 30 April 2018, the Government discussed the proposal and assessed it and opposed it in particular because of several legislative technical deficiencies. However, these comments were addressed by Mrs Věra Kovářová, the petitioner for second reading, by an amendment. In addition, the Organising Committee recommended the discussion of the draft law on 10 May 2018 by Resolution No. 68, designated the rapporteur Jan Hrnčíř and proposed the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-008-019.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the first reading. I am opening a general debate. Yes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-008-019.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that this amendment be rejected at first reading and I will make a brief explanation for this. This is a non-systemic intervention in the entire VAT tariff, which is contrary to the current construction of the VAT Act. The proposal is neither logically justified. The amendment concerns only one type of regular transport. The proposal brings a relatively large budget gap without any solution to its compensation, in addition it is unsystemmatic in terms of the construction of the VAT Act. Even the assumption of a reduced fare price is not reasonably substantiated here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-008-019.u7	I thank Mr Roman Kubíček. So we have a motion to dismiss, so I'm noticing. Now Minister Schillerová has the floor. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-008-019.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on the draft amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, by making it difficult for him, on the one hand, to have quite major legislative defects and, on the other, a partial non-systemic step in terms of regulating the tax burden on entities. So I would like, from the perspective of the Ministry of Finance, to give you an overview of the dissenting position and to explain to you what the defects are mainly about, that is, what the dissenting position is about. The unintended defect of the proposal is that the amendment of the law, as proposed by the petitioner, could not lead to the fulfilment of the intention to reduce the rate of value added tax for the ground mass regular passenger transport and their luggage by transferring it from the first to the second reduced rate, as it is contrary to the current design of the Value Added Tax Act. However, given that this item would be exempted from a reduced rate of 15 per cent of the tax rate, this service would be subject to a basic rate of 21 per cent as a result of the adoption of the proposed amendment. This would result in an increase, not a reduction, compared to the current tax rate. However, Mrs Věra Kovářová's amendment, which has already been inserted into the system and is available on the website of the Chamber of Deputies, responds to this legislative defect. However, if the revised text were adopted in the spirit of the said amendment in order for the result to be consistent with the intention of the petitioners, the proposal would mean a deficit in the revenue of the state budget, the budget of the regions and municipalities of the estimated amount of CZK 930 million, which means almost a billion. Moreover, this proposal unsystemically translates into a second reduced rate of 10 per cent only part of the public scheduled passenger transport, such as water mass regular passenger and luggage transport, passenger transport by cable suspension lines, which also provide transport service in the territory, remains at the first reduced VAT rate. The above therefore does not correspond to the opposition to the desired trend of simplification of tax rules and at the same time creates concerns about unjustified inequality. Nor can the expectations of the appellants who promise from the proposal that there will be a reduction in fare prices as a result of a reduction in VAT. This government expects a discount in the 2019 budget for a very important group of citizens, namely pensioners and students, of 75 percent. 6 billion crowns will be spent in the budget. We are counting in the accompanying VAT law, which is the amendment law to the amendment to the EET Act, which is in the Chamber of Deputies at this meeting, we are counting on reducing a number of items to a second reduced rate of 10 percent. This is to be supported especially by the third and fourth EET waves. But we're also counting on a reduction in VAT to water and sewerage. And that's where we're gonna make sure, thanks, through the Ministry of Finance's pricing bill, that the final consumers feel it, that is, our citizens. However, this step is unsystemic, it will be expensive and very complicated for administration, both for the payer and for the administration that manages taxes, that is to say financial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-008-019.u9	Thank you, Minister. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? I don't have an application, I don't see anyone, so I'm done with the general debate. Is there interest in final words? Yes, it is. Mrs Kovářová is interested in the final word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-008-019.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, here you have heard from the Minister of Finance that this is a non-systemic measure. I must say that we think that this is not quite the case, because we know that this is the way in the right direction. The reduced value added tax rate for public transport fares is the right way. Therefore, I beg you to release this proposal to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-27-ps2017-016-02-008-019.u11	Thank you. Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? He's not interested. So we ended the general debate, we ended the final words. I have a note here that a motion has been tabled for rejection by Mr Kubíček. This is a proposal with which we will now deal with the vote. [[Sounds like a gong.]] I've invited all the absent Members to the O.R. There's a checkout request. You're all checked out. Please sign up again with your voting cards. We will now vote on the rejection of the proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 35, 152 Members present, for 68, against 70. The motion was not accepted. [[A round of applause for the entire right under the press gallery.]] We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Would someone else please suggest a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will take the vote. We will vote on the proposal being tabled to discuss the budget committee as a guarantee committee. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 36, registered by 158 Members, for 156, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the Committee on Budgets is the guarantee committee to discuss this proposal. [[15.20 hours]] The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to another committee. Would any of the Members please suggest such a thing? If this is not the case, I am of the opinion that the proposal will be dealt with by the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee, and I will conclude the discussion of the first reading of this point. Now, let's look at the point.
