ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening today's meeting adjourned on the 12th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. I would like you all to sign up with your cards and, if necessary, tell me who votes with the replacement card. Ivan Bartoš asked for an apology from today's meeting by these colleagues: Ivan Adamec for no reason, Ivan Bartoš from 14.30 to 17.00 for reasons of work, Jan Bartošek until 15.30 for reasons of work, Josef Bělica for reasons of foreign travel, Pavel Bělobrádek for reasons of health, Stanislav Blaha within 16 hours for Maxová of health, Pavel Blažek for personal reasons, Marian Bojko until 16 hours for Schwarzenberg of health, Petr Gazdík for reasons of work, Stanislav Grospič from 15 Šafránková for reasons of work, Jan Hamáček for reasons of foreign travel, Milan Hnilička until Lucie hours for reasons of employment, Milan Chovanec for reasons of employment, Řehounek Chvojka for reasons of employment, Aleš Juchelka until 16.30 for Michálek of work, Stanislav Juránek for reasons of employment, Marian Jurečka for Skopeček of foreign travel, Jiří Kobza from 18 to 19 hours for Majerová of work, for reasons of work, Helena Langšádlová within 16 hours for Zuzana of work, for reasons of 16 hours of work, Jan Lipáša, for reasons of 16 hours of work of the reasons of the reasons of the Karel of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic. The members of the government apologize Richard Brabec from 17:00 for work reasons, Robert Plaga for work reasons, Ilja Šmíd for work reasons. With the replacement card number 2, Mr. Mašek votes. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to introduce you to the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. We propose a firm inclusion of the following points: Paragraph 28 of the approved programme, this is the House Press 109, the Labour Code, first reading, to include on Friday 20. 4. as the third point after the block of third reading, this means for the already firmly placed point 21. Furthermore, paragraphs 37 and 38 of the approved programme, this is House printing 138 and 139, personal data and related law, first reading, to include on Wednesday 18. 4. the first and second points of the negotiations. And I would also like to point out to you that point 67, the government's response to written interpelations, is already exhausted, so we will start our negotiations on Thursday at 9.00 on other points according to the approved programme. There won't be any more written interpelations on Thursday. We'll continue with the approved show. If there's no objection, I'd let the proposals from the Gremium vote at once. I'm asking if there's a proposal. This is President Faltýnek on the agenda, yes. [[Member of the Faltynek: On the agenda.]] So Mr. Faltýnek on the agenda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, Mr President. I tried to find a match at the grémia meeting to remove some points from the agenda, unfortunately I failed. That is why I would like to make my specific proposal, which is to propose, on behalf of our MP, that the following items be excluded from the agenda. Point 61, Report of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council 2016, print 78, paragraph 63. Furthermore, the report of the Board on the activities of Czech Television for 2016, House print 113. And also points 64, annual report on Czech Television's management for 2016, and number 65, annual report of the Czech News Agency for 2016, House press 116. My proposal is based on the fact that not all these points, namely two, have been discussed in the electoral committee. With this request, the President of the Standa Berkovec Election Committee asked me to discuss all these four reports at the next meeting within one block. But I understand that if this proposal fails, I would then modify it to remove the two points that have not yet been discussed on the electoral committee from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u3	Can I just specify which two points it is? [[Members negotiate outside the microphone. From the diaper it sounds that paragraphs 61 and 65.]] Thank you. I said, who else? I know President Stanjura has applied with priority rights. I'm registering Mr. Zaorálek's application. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u4	Hello, Mr President, Dear Government, fellow Members. I have one proposal to withdraw from the programme, namely item 42, the Government proposal by which the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is submitted to express its consent to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union, simplified the translated fiscal pact, or fiscal compact, as you wish - to exclude it from the agenda of this meeting. And what President Faltýnek said a while ago. To make this a vote, if he'd agreed to it, we'd split his proposal into two. That we could vote on the elimination of paragraphs 61 and 65, those are reports that the electoral committee has not yet discussed, so it is logical to disable them. On the contrary, I think that the 63 and 64 reports have been discussed by the electoral committee, and they have adopted a very clear position. And if I can judge by the results of the vote in the electoral committee - I am surprised as a member of the electoral committee that the President wants to rule it out when we have it worked out - there is no reason. We're just gonna throw those points in front of us. So we will not support the elimination of these two specific points precisely because they have already been properly discussed in the electoral committee, but we are ready to support the elimination of points 61 and 65. So if the President of the Chamber of Deputies had to vote on this separately, we would have to deal with it by voting. Because we can't vote on the elimination of all four, and if it doesn't go through the vote, we can vote on the elimination of two again. I don't think that makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u5	Thank you. The President seems to dispute that once we have voted on exclusion and that it would not be voted on, we cannot vote again on exclusion. His counterproposal is that we would vote 61 and 65 first and then 63, 64 after that. Is that acceptable to the plaintiffs of this point? I will leave a moment for the meeting and give the floor to Mr Zaorálek, who is next on the agenda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues. I would like to ask you to include a new point, the first point at the meeting of today's House, which I would call the Czech Republic's opinion on events in Syria. I propose this point here today, although I am aware that it is not easy for plenary to handle such a debate, and I will try to justify why I am making an exception. I'll presend that the Foreign Committee dealt with this last week, at the end of the week. And the reason I'd like it to be listed here is because the event was, I think, very special, this is something that doesn't happen every month, and because I think the position of the Czech Republic is not entirely obvious. The way I followed those positions, and now I don't mean that it wasn't always easy for us to find a consensus between constitutional agents. But I observed that it was not quite clear even the position of the members of the government. It seems to me that certain shifts and changes have taken place in the Prime Minister's position. I even overheard and noticed a certain distance from the Prime Minister's position from the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State, so I think the public can get a little hockey out of it. It seems to me that this is an important issue because, and I'm just going to at least suggest what the seriousness is. A year ago in April, something very similar happened in Syria. You may remember, there was also suspicion of a chemical attack carried out by the Asadův regime, and the first 59 tomahawks were launched to launch again by the United States. And maybe you'll remember that we commented on it in different ways back then. Some were more careful, some might be more enthusiastic, but something matched the comments. They agreed that the assessment of the sense of attack of those 59 tomahawks depends on whether it turns out to be part of some overall strategy, some concept of how we will proceed, and that the move will not remain unique, torn out, but that it will be part of some real policy towards Syria. The reason I don't think this situation is easy right now is because in every media and world you will read that the current president of the United States, Donald Trump, is sowing confusion into any Western position against Syria. And I'm quoting, like, Economist, that's not some superoriginal sentence. And that's because, over the course of the month, he also successfully changed his position quite fundamentally. And now the point is, it's not easy in a situation like this to face it. And for me, it's pretty incomprehensible to the public, if we just say we're gonna blow it, we're gonna say yes. That's why I said that it's not enough to just say "okay, we're bombing again" when we see that it's connected with huge confusion and problems, with huge questions, what we're doing in Syria today. And we are part of the Alliance, we are part of the European Union and we should ask ourselves these questions. We used to ask ourselves what we are doing here in the House in Afghanistan, and you know what the consequences are when we take the kind of action that costs people, it costs capacity, it costs energy, and in the end it doesn't have a result. And today, when I simplify it, in Damascus, I heard people in the streets rejoice, that it cost so little that it seems like it's actually fun and nothing's happening. So this is where they do spectracular theater events. We all agree nicely, but nothing has changed with the people who are there. So I feel like this is worth the debate. And if the situation is so unclear on the part of the community, even on the part of our own statements, it helps me to make the public unsure that fake news blooms here, so that conspiracy theories bloom, because a policy that is unable to name things, which is unable to say that it is competent, is actually losing confidence. And that's what's in general today. Plus, we have a government that's in remission. That means there's no government that's going through the process of trust, and that's making it all the more complicated. It's just an objective situation. That is why I think it is good for us to talk about this here today, to hear this position and to replace the fact that at this point, perhaps the Czech Republic is not in the best shape, with a government that is able to represent 100%, and at the same time to tell the public that there are simply politicians who are thinking about it and who are aware of what is going on in Syria. At this point in time, I think it is not clear to the public from the views of the country's representatives. And that's why I propose that point, and I hope you approve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Perhaps President Kalousek wants to respond to your speech. Then the Minister of Foreign Stropnický will appear. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Fake news and conspiracy theories would bloom anyway, because it's part of the situation. But, of course, it grows stronger on the basis of such speeches as the appearance of the Foreign Committee President Zaorálek. I dare say one for you, perhaps for most of us known story, when during the Caribbean crisis, when there were also fake news and there were a lot of conspiracy theories, even though there was no Internet, the American Ambassador to French President de Gaulle visited to present him with intelligence images of Russian nuclear missiles in Cuba. And when he wanted to show him the pictures, de Gaulle, who brought France out of NATO at the time - I stress, brought France out of NATO - for a number of other reasons, stopped him, didn't want to see the pictures and said, "No need, the word of the President of the United States is enough." Please tell the President that France is behind the United States. I'm saying this history because it's the principle of alliance. President Zaorálek is talking about our policy on Syria. We may have one, but most importantly, we have a common security and foreign policy. We're part of the North Atlantic Alliance. And the United States, Great Britain and France - and now in such a special discussion today about who is or is not Eurohujer, so please note that in that coalition there are both Theresa Mayová, who is conducting Brexit, and President Macron, who is paying for one of Europe's greatest integrators. So in this coalition of three of our key allies - they did something on the basis of information from their intelligence services and information that they had no doubt about, and we are their allies. Or, as President Zeman wishes, we want to be the Trojan horse of the European Union - the Kremlin. One or the other, this is a situation where we have to decide whether or not we want to support our allies and where we should join. And I, the moment the President... [[Responses to the entertaining Members in the first place:]] I can't go on until that line in front of me... Look, Mr. Faltýnek, are you doing this on purpose or...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u9	Thank you for addressing your colleagues through. I'll ask the others to remain in their seats and, if possible, not disturb them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u10	I thank you through Mr President, but it is every time I speak. So it is a situation where the Czech Republic is a national interest in being read. If, on Saturday, the Secretary of Defense, the Foreign Minister made a statement, the Prime Minister took the position, and I can say for myself that I could immediately sign those opinions, I could sign the Prime Minister's position on Saturday, so I stared madly at the fact that on Sunday, the Prime Minister strongly denied his position on Saturday. The worst thing that could have happened has happened. We simply stopped being read not only to the Czech public, but we stopped being read to our partners. And in foreign policy, if you are not readable to your partners, you are losing any possibility of promoting any priority of your national interest, because everyone will stop counting on you unless you are a 200-million-dollar market or nuclear power, which the Czech Republic is certainly not. That's just what happened. And I think that it is the duty of the Government of the Czech Republic, the Government, no one else - the President does not formulate foreign policy, the Government formulates it, is responsible for it and is controlled by the Chamber of Deputies - it is the duty of the Government to formulate clear, legible positions consistent with our long-term foreign and defence policy strategy. Unfortunately, that happened on Saturday, and it got out on Sunday. I may surprise you, the TOP 09 will support President Zaorálek's proposal, but it will not support him here to discuss our policy on information and fake news to discuss our priorities in foreign and defence policy. [[but]] And in the fact that at decisive moments, as de Gaulle did in 1962, the Czech government, whatever it is, must find the courage to support its allies, because if it doesn't find the courage, it will lose the allies, thereby losing the fundamental priority of the defence policy of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Now with priority right Minister of Foreign Affairs Martin Stropnický. For colleagues who have made their views known, I would point out that we are not in the debate, I cannot make factual comments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would just like to apologize for any indisposition, because I should probably be somewhere other than here at the moment, but I didn't want to avoid the subject. I certainly didn't want to be labeled as hiding from a case or a case of Syria. I believe that the subject is not on the agenda today for reasons I will try to explain. I think it's a multilayered topic, it's an extremely complex problem. No doubt, as António Guterres and Jens Stoltenberg both said, it is actually the biggest security problem in today's global world, and I'm afraid we're not going to push it too far here. On the other hand, of course, I have a natural respect for the views of everyone here in order to express them, but let us consider, because it will undoubtedly go on, no doubt this will seriously disrupt today's agenda. All I'm gonna do is make a quick recap of what happened. At about 4:30 p.m., at the time of the military operation, we began to deal with some of our procedures at the State Department. We've been coordinating with the services, etc., so we certainly didn't start late, so to speak, and at the same time, of course, we've tried in no way to succumb to any sign of panic. There was no objective reason for that either. We knew that such a military act would happen, we didn't know exactly when and how. What happened? It happened that three warehouses were most likely hit plus the production plant or the development area for the production and storage of chemical assault weapons. No person was killed, three persons were injured. 29 NATO Member States verbally supported this action, 27 EU Member States verbally supported this action. Can you imagine that we would be dealing with a situation here where the Czech Republic would be one or the other or a third State that would do the opposite? I can't imagine. The word "allies" has fallen. I think it's absolutely essential. Sometimes I feel like I'm hearing here about our allies, the voluntary allies that we've chosen as someone who maybe determines something for us, where we need to compliment, how I read, where we want to buy their respect for the future. Through Mr President, Mr Zaorálek, you do not need this, such a diction. That's the law... red. I would therefore argue for this - by the way, at this point three parliaments of European countries, respectively, have discussed this. two, French and British, and Congress, if I have the right information, it is also included in the Bundestag, and then I think that in Estonia, and that's it - or if anyone feels that we have neglected something terribly, because everyone is having massive, massive and substantive debates about it now, that is not the case. But it's just my feeling of it, my opinion, I don't force it on anyone. Once again, I think it is better that we discuss this on both committees, both the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in some detail, and then we go back to plenary. That depends on your will. But I fear that otherwise, after a long-term debate that some will undoubtedly use for their own personal media benefit, we will only come to the conclusion that peace is better than war, that having a Security Council resolution is better than not having it and that not using chemical weapons is better than using it. But we know that now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u13	I thank you and now I have several applications with priority rights. First, in the absence of the President of the KDU-ČSL Club, Vice-President Benešík, then Vice-President of the CSSD Club, Mr Birke, and then Minister Šlechtová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to speak for our club - because we are not sure if this point will ever be included and if it is even appropriate for it to be included, because this is a public meeting and I understand, and the Minister has made it clear that information is very substantial, but is currently not publicly communicatable, so that he and his preferred right, as well as the Secretary of Defense Šlechtová, can comment on this to give us at least the framework information on this. We are not fundamentally opposed to discussing this point at the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies, we are just a little skeptical about whether the discussion of this point will become an arena for, say, personal visibility where, instead of taking the substance of the matter. And you know what's very interesting about that? They've been killing in Syria for five years, even longer. He Asad isn't some lamb we're gonna talk about. To keep extremists in line with extremely brutal means, he held the same brutal means of the so-called democratic opposition. Let's just paint it the way it is. Now, let's say the allies, especially the United States, the United Kingdom and France, are going to make laser-accurate attacks after they are convinced that Asad has used chemical weapons against his own population for several times, he hasn't killed anyone, he probably hasn't hurt anyone, and we have a huge need to discuss this. Oh, my God, why now? There have been murders on all fronts for years, and why has something like Asad and Putin provoked us to do that? Let's answer that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u15	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I beg everyone - I feel the noise level has been unnecessarily high. He managed to drown it out, but let's be considerate, let's be quiet. Now Vice-President Birke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Allow me only to supplement the proposal made by my colleague Zaorálek, who, in my opinion, did not mention enough the inclusion of the point which is being discussed. [[President: I didn't.]] So let me put this point on today's day as the first item of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u17	Thank you. There will therefore be two votes. Now with priority rights, Minister Šlechtová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is Saturday morning, you will wake up and you will find out from the media that there has been a war attack in a particular country. What about it? In a few hours, the Secretary of Defense will perform, which during that time called the leadership of the Ministry of Defence, generals of the Army of the Czech Republic, Military Intelligence, where we all agreed on what information we had, either from the rapporteurs or from the generals, or, of course, from NATO. Based on the pursuit of the media, citizens, you politicians have been speaking to both me and the Minister of Foreign Affairs all Saturday morning. I personally assured the Czech public as a Czech politician that Czech citizens, Czech soldiers at UNDOF are not at risk and are fine. We subsequently informed that there was a military intervention by the US, Great Britain and France on Syria. More information in that moment of public nature was not available to any of us, and by no means would any of us let them go, neither I nor the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Subsequently, since everyone has the right, both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to gather their crisis crews or the management of these crisis crews, we provided information to the crisis staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and subsequently Mr Stropnický spoke with his position within the framework of the Allied - our - NATO membership. Two government ministers, it doesn't matter that we are a government in demise, stood up for Czech citizens to let us know what the situation is and that we are safe. And you, many of you, are telling us that you and I are responsible for something? [[He's talking very strongly.]] Which one of you stepped in front of those cameras without whispering to the two of us, both Minister Stropnickýý and Minister Šlechtová for informing us about what we knew at the time? Personally, I do not have a problem with this point being included, but count on a lot of information being classified, so I suggest that some points be included in committees, as Minister Stropnickýý suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u19	Thank you, Madam Secretary. With priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Benešík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u20	I was counting on this to sound, and it's perfectly correct. A lot of information is simply classified, and with the greatest will of the Secretary of Defense, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs can't tell us here in plenary. And if we want to express our position on terror, the Islamic terror of the Islamic State, and so on, we have a great opportunity to do so, because I am counting on the House's meeting probably going to vote today on the supply of atomic technologies to Iran, so-called. Bushehr. KDU-ČSL has long said that, although primarily peaceful technology, it will never support the supply of this kind of technology to the Islamic regime, which shows very obvious signs of dictatorship. So these two things, even if someone seems to be unrelated, are related. And I repeat again for the KDU-ČSL club that we do not support the embargo, which, in our view, is absolutely right for the supply of nuclear technology to Iran, which is clearly a sponsor of terrorism and violence in this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u21	Thank you. President Stanjura, then Vice-President Filip. Mr. Stanjura checked in a little earlier. Please, you have the floor. You checked in early, I logged you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u22	Good afternoon again. I mean, we, as the strongest opposition party, didn't bring up the debate. I find it unfortunate that this debate should actually be conducted without us deciding on that point or not. I would understand. The proposal was made, if so, I would ask Mr Zaorálek, through the President, to clarify the point. In my opinion, it is not the position of the Czech Republic, but the Government of the Czech Republic. There's a difference after all. We cannot personalize the right to speak for the whole Czech Republic or have information, but the government should say so. I want to explain why we are prepared for such a proposal if it is modified, to support. It's not like we want to perform too much here, stall and spend a few hours doing it. The problem is simple. I didn't really understand her speech tonight, with some statement from the Foreign Minister, Prime Minister, everyone in remission, but basically they were still talking in a uniform way on Saturday, one language, one approach. Then the Prime Minister, on Sunday's resignation, actually changed his words, changed his vocabulary. From my point of view, he made amends for both his ministers, and then it becomes a mess. If this had remained on Saturday's performances, and nothing would have been added from the mouth of the members of the government on Sunday and Monday, we would not have felt the need to debate it here in plenary, because the position would have been fairly clear, unified and perhaps we could return to good political practice, which the Prime Minister in resignation could have briefly informed the Presidents of perhaps opposition parties about how his government, which is in demise, has no confidence as to how it stands, where appropriate to find support for it or not support for it. I'd consider it legitimate, not publicly, without a microphone here to get that information. It would not be the first time, and I hope that it would not be the last time in such important extraordinary events to consult these things with the opposition. And that's it, actually. I don't want to drag this debate through anything. I propose that we decide whether or not to include this point, then those who want to speak will have the opportunity to do so. This is a little unfair when ministers are actually involved in the debate and others can't respond to it. I was just trying to explain to our club that the point, if renamed, we prepare to support it. If it doesn't happen, nothing special will happen. I just want to point out that the debate is initiated by a potential coalition partner of the ANO movement. Let's not say that the opposition wants to delay anything. The opposition hasn't suggested anything at this point. Maybe they'll join the motion. And if you want to debate Syria in secret, in public, calmly, don't drag us into this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now with priority rights Vice-President Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I did not want to react initially, but I must, because my colleague Benešík brought another point here. Do you know what the reason is for us to discuss this today, i.e. forgive me, on the third day of the attack, and not at the time the dispute began? That's easy. Because Saturday morning, or Friday, Saturday morning, indisputably under Resolution 3314 of the UN General Assembly of 14 December 1974, there was an act of aggression. This resolution sets out and established a definition of aggression for all UN states and for international law. Bombing is considered to be aggression, further aggression is considered to be an attack by the armed forces of certain states of another State or an attack by the armed forces of certain States on land, maritime, air forces of another State or on their military or industrial objects. The Statute of the International Criminal Court considers aggression to be a criminal offence. [[14.40 hours]] And here we are clearly on the one who violated and who did not violate international law. Clearly, this act of aggression has happened. It is also clear that the civil war in Syria did not arise on its own. I remember well the statements of former President of the United States of America, Obama, who said that he would continue to support financially, materially and technically so-called. moderate Islamists to continue to fight the regime that exists in Syria. This is, however, contrary to Article 1 (1) of the Treaty. 1 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, known here under number 120/1976 Coll. So if you want to discuss it, we can discuss it now and then, of course, but it also needs to be realised that this discussion cannot be some sort of ideological slapping, but it must be a question of clear facts that, unfortunately, we do not have here, because we would have to ask why they blocked the United States of America from leaving in time for representatives of an international chemical and combat organisation to leave so that they can't make their way to the scene. If you want to discuss this, please, we can. However, I do not consider it possible for us to discuss this without having at least the report and information discussed on Friday, albeit to a limited extent on the Foreign Committee, and without knowing the opinions of our experts, who would probably have to discuss this first in the House Committees. It is possible to agree with the government here that such material will be prepared to interrupt the House's meeting, to include committee meetings, foreign committee, defence committee, Security Committee, or so. the other bodies of the House, and then we will act here in a matter of fact. But forgive me, the kind of talk that Mr. Benešík has been doing here, don't be angry with me, it's just an example of where such a debate can go. If you want, I'm ready for this debate. In substance, internationally, and peacefully, I will argue precisely in favour of the fact that something like this can never happen again in life. Because this attack is an act of aggression against a sovereign state under international law! No one has the right to impose on another state the regime should have. No one can abuse his raw material base. And here we are clearly witnessing that someone is financing and also supporting the overthrow of the legitimate regime by the armed forces. What was before us in Syria? It was clear that the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic had dealt with the Islamic radicals, and Bašár Asad wanted to declare elections. I guess somebody didn't mind. Ask yourself if it bothers you that there will be democratic elections somewhere!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u25	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. And now with priority rights, Vice-President Okamura, then Vice-President Benešík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to convey our SPD movement's position on the attacks on Syria. We consider the attack on Syria to be a violation of international law by the US, France and Great Britain. Our SPD movement condemns the position of ministers of the Czech Government in demise on this matter. The attack was preceded by an international investigation into the alleged use of chemical weapons. It was carried out on the basis of information from Islamists. SPD doesn't trust that kind of resources. As a result, the US, Great Britain, and France sided with the Islamist opposition against the internationally recognized Government of Syria. Attacking with its consequences can deepen the destabilization of the regions, trigger further migration waves and threaten peace in Europe. Support for the attack by NATO and the European Union is in complete conflict with the existential interest of the Czech Republic and the Czech nation. Blind obedience to NATO and to the European Union can have the hardest consequences for our country and nation in the future. The SPD considers it essential to promote respect for international law, stabilisation of the Middle East, halting support for Islamists, preventing migration to Europe and halting tensions in Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u27	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Prime Minister, dear government, colleagues, I have a million-six reservations about Barack Obama's foreign policy. That was the president who was afraid of his own shadow. Blaming him for starting a war seems completely ridiculous to me. This was the Chamberlain of American foreign policy, which cleared positions and just created, in my opinion, space for a number of very complicated situations. That's what I think I can say here. So I have no great sympathy for Barack Obam in this regard. I am not aware that he would ever say that he would support - and that is in his defense - moderate Islamists. If he said that, I think President Filip will prove it, it's quite possible, I'm not aware. He may have said that he would support the democratic opposition to Bašár Asad, and now the question is what can be classified as moderate opposition. That's absolutely true. But what is quite clear is that the MP who supports the abolition of the embargo on the export of atomic technology to Islamic theocracy, dictatorship in Iran, will support the true Islamists. Because in Iran, radical Islamists rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u29	Thank you. I'm going to formally ask if anyone else is interested in any more performances on the agenda. It's not like that. So we finally get to the vote. First, let's vote... With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u30	I apologize for the delay, but I accept the proposal of Zbyněk Stanjura to divide the two points - four points, sorry, about the messages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u31	Yes, thank you. So first, we will deal with the proposal from the Gremium, as I read it at the beginning. I hope you still remember this after the discussion on Syria. Do you want me to recap? I don't think we have to, it wasn't that complicated. I see my colleagues are entering the O.R., so I can hold out for a few more seconds. We'll ring the bell. I'll ask you to take your seats, sign up with your card. And we will vote on the proposal for a grémia on the agenda. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 67, 169 Members signed in, for 165, against 1. The motion was accepted. We will now deal with two votes with President Faltýnek's proposal. First, we vote on the elimination of paragraphs 61 and 65, which are points that have not yet been discussed by the electoral committee. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 68, 170 Members signed in for 166, against no one. This proposal was adopted. [[14.50 hours]] We will now vote on the exclusion of paragraphs 63 and 64 from the agenda. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 69, 170 Members signed in for 103, versus 65. This proposal has also been adopted and the points have been eliminated. Next, we will vote on President Stanjura's proposal to eliminate paragraph 42 - the fiscal pact. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 70, 170 Members registered, for 127, against 30. This proposal was adopted. Point 42 has been removed from the agenda. We will now vote on Mr Zaorálek's proposal to include a new point. I saw that we would consensually call this point the Position of the Government of the Czech Republic to events in Syria. We're voting to place a point in the meeting. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for a meeting point. Who's against it? Voting number 71, registered 169, for 99 against 10. This proposal was adopted and a new point was included. Now we will vote on his solid inclusion - as the first item in today's negotiations. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 72, 170 Members registered, for 94, versus 6. This proposal was adopted. We have dealt with all the proposals that have been made at this time. I don't think I have good news for the senators present in the showroom that their point isn't coming up. We will continue as we have approved our agenda. Excuse me. I'll read you a few apologies. He apologizes to Secretary Schillerová for work reasons for today's meeting. Mr Josef Kott apologizes from 17.30 to the end of the meeting day from today's meeting. She apologizes to Mrs Pavla Golasowská from 17:00 to the end of today's negotiations for work reasons. Mr Ondřej Veselý apologizes from 17.30 for working reasons. Mr Dolínek apologizes from 14:00 to 15:30 without giving any reason. Mr Lubomír Volný apologizes from today until the end of the week for health reasons. With priority rights before opening the item, Mr Kalousek. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor. Before you open the point, Mr President, and give the floor to the appointed member of the government, I would like to stress that the approved point is called the Government's position or the position of government. That means whatever member of the government is lecturing him is the position of the entire government. And if the Prime Minister said he was denying it the next day, because a completely different member of the government said so, that's not true. The position that the Chamber of Deputies will now hear is the government's position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-17-ps2017-012-05-000-000.u33	I thank the President for his contribution. Opening point
