ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u1	49. Government bill amending Act No. 280/2009 Sb., Tax Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 47/ - third reading The Minister is at the rapporteur's table and I will ask Mr Jan Volný, rapporteur for the guarantee budget committee, to do the same. The amendments are in the Houses of the Press 47/4, which was delivered on 2 March this year, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee has been delivered to you as the House Press 47/5. I ask the Minister if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. He's not interested. I therefore open the debate and see Mr Miroslav Kalousek's application and then Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you will remember that at second reading, when I tabled my amendment, I added that if it is identical, including Mr Benda's reasoning, I will ask you to withdraw it at third reading. Because it really is the same - it was the proposal C by Mr Stanjura, who presented it for Mr Benda - so I would like to ask you to withdraw my amendment under letter D because it does not make sense, and it is not even possible for us to vote twice on the same one. Allow me to make a brief view of TOP 09 on the bill as well as on the amendments. Let me start by sighing that we are sorry that the party with a clear pro-European orientation is being pushed not to support the implementation of the European directive, which is not the fault of the directive, it is because of the very common phenomenon in our legislation, when the political will of Czech politicians or the wishes of Czech officials is being delivered to the European directive beyond its scope. This is also the case in this case, in the case of Directive DAC 5. To the honour of the Ministry of Finance, let it be said that it did not conceal that it openly admitted that some of the provisions are beyond this directive, which unfortunately is not a common case. In many cases, we receive proposals from other ministries where there is no distinction between the scope of compulsory implementation and the scope beyond, and then everything is thrown at the evil European Union, and it is very often our own creativity that we have committed during the mandatory implementation. We cannot support this directive for reasons that I have mentioned here several times. It is a breach of banking secrecy for ordinary domestic tax administration, not just for international cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. We believe that breaking such a serious secret without any control by a prosecutor or judge who controls law enforcement authorities when breaking these secrets does not correspond to the importance of the public interest in the ordinary domestic tax administration, which corresponds to the maximum public interest significantly higher, and this is the fight against terrorism and money laundering. Two amendments address this issue. It is completely addressed by Mr Stanjura's proposal, in Benda's parentheses, which seeks to clear the proposal submitted for simple implementation of the directive. If this amendment were to be adopted, we will, of course, be happy and enthusiastic about the amendment to the Tax Code in the framework of mandatory implementation. In part, Mrs Válková's amendment to the Constitutional Legal Committee, which put forward there, seeks to respond to those complaints. It is a step not complete, but it is a compromise, and it is a step in the right direction, and we would like to support this amendment. I ask the rapporteur whether it would be possible to vote first on Mr Stanjura's amendment, which we would like to support, and if he does not pass, we would like to support the amendment of the Constitutional Legal Committee. Otherwise, we could get into a complicated discussion as to whether the proposals are voteable or not. If we adjust the procedure in this way, the vote will be no problem. Let us comment very briefly on the amendment to this amendment. It is Mr Ferjenčík's amendment, in the parenthesis of Mr Michálek. Much has been written about him, said much. I don't want to extend the situation, I don't want to extend the debate, but I would like to make a brief remark. Breaking a lawyer's secret, which is not the privilege of lawyers, is their duty, that is to protect clients, break it and construct an intervention in the constitutional rights of a citizen on the basis of the assumption that perhaps sometime in the future there might not be a tax due, that is in all respect of the petitioners something from which must run frost on the back. If this amendment were accepted, there is no doubt that we would initiate a constitutional complaint. We believe it would be successful. Even if we had not done so, we believe that the first interested parties to be asked to break the banking, sorry, legal secrecy on the basis of that simple consideration that there will be no tax in the future, that they would also file a constitutional complaint and that they would succeed. I would also like to point out that, while breaking these secrets through law enforcement authorities is under relatively strict control, whether a prosecutor or a judge, depending on the stage at which the criminal proceedings take place, there would be no reasonable control here. The paragraph is written to the extent widely that it threatens an incredible act that could occur without any control, without any insurance. I therefore consider it simplest when the House politely rejects this proposal. If it comes to this agreed compromise that only the amendment of the Constitutional Legal Committee will pass, we will not be able to fully agree with it and we will probably abstain at the final stage, but we will not consider it an absolute tragedy and we will not think that this requires a review of the Constitutional Court. In the event of Mr Michálek's amendment, our view will be dramatically opposite. Thank you for your attention and please consider some of my sentences.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u3	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. I have here one factual comment by Mr Ondřej Veselý and a written application by Mr Václav Klaus, Mr Vojtěch Munzar and Mr Věra Kovářová, stating that I must ask Mr Benda to wait, given that the written application takes precedence. So I understand he applied, he was the first, but his party colleagues beat him to it. [[Member Michálek reporting.]] Mr. Michálek reporting with priority rights? [[Yes.]] Okay, in that case, after a factual remark. Mr Veselý's point of fact is now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must report bias on this point because I am an active lawyer. I guess I'm not alone here, but I'm reporting it to be clear. Although I respect colleagues from the pirát very much, I must say that the amendment that breaks the confidentiality of lawyers is completely unacceptable to me, and I ask them and I ask them to try to consider this proposal. The confidentiality of attorneys is a fundamental principle on which the relationship between attorney and client is based. It's a principle that's been going on here for years, I'd even say centuries. And it's a principle that hasn't been broken by either of the regimes that we've had in totalitarian regimes. That means neither the regime, let's say, fascist, or Nazi, nor communist. Please consider this matter. It's the opening of Pandořina's locker. And once Pandořin's locker is open, then attorney-client privilege and relationship will never be what he was. Please consider this thing. I cannot support the proposal. And if the whole bill passes as it is filed, including this amendment, I will be forced to join a possible constitutional complaint. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u5	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with priority rights, Mr Michálek, and then duly signed in by colleagues. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, at least briefly, to justify my amendment, because I did not have the opportunity in the previous reading. So now on to this House document 402. The Czech Pirate Party has been running for elections to limit tax evasion especially for large corporations, which now use very complex tax schemes, through which it is possible to divert the money that should be subject to taxation in the Czech Republic. Using these tax schemes, the money gets to the Caribbean through, for example, three jurisdictions, where, in some cases, zero taxes are taxed. So even what the ODS says doesn't help is that when the system gets simpler, when taxes go down, there will always be companies that prefer to do it because there's no lower tax than zero percent. So we need to have an effective adjustment for the money laundering and tax evasion of large companies. Because that's what's estimated at 50 billion today. Crowns. These are the top estimates of how much escapes from the budget of the Czech Republic. And in that respect, I think it's perfectly fair for large corporations to pay taxes. It should not be a burden on taxpayers. If we decide that these, let's say, camouflage legal structures will be completely legal, we'll be allowed to do so, we'll call on those companies, so of course that means someone else will have to pay for it. It will have to be paid off by standard taxpayers, employees, and it will have to do what happened during the ODS government and the government of the Minister of Finance of Kalousek, when taxes were rising to citizens. And that's wrong. The state should primarily look at where it can save. This means in its own operation and in where the tax evasions that have not yet been sanctioned are. And I think that this is in the area of tax evasion on income tax, where these optimizations occur, some of which, I point out, some of them, not all of them, are illegal. These are the ones that are forbidden and aggressive tax planning. And also in the area of VAT, where there are carousel frauds, and there are again tax evasions of tens of billions of crowns. Our proposal really aims to deal with these sophisticated schemes. And it's not just the Czech Republic that's taking care of it, it's the whole world. In the United Kingdom, for example, they have legislation that requires lawyers to proactively report all those business-specific transactions of the type of trust creation, the setting-up of legal entities and tax schemes that serve to optimize. There. I think we're gonna...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u7	I understand, Mr. Chairman. Once again, I will ask the House for peace. If you're discussing anything other than the tax code, please be in the foyer. I think we need to understand each other. It is the third reading, it is not some marginal standard, and so I ask everyone to either address this topic or move discussions on other topics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u8	So let's continue the discussion through this speaker's counter rather than in plenary like this. Now, about what the proposal is about. The proposal is half the sentence. And it's really not a breach of attorney's confidentiality, as it's said in all the media, where they printed the TOP 09 news and the Bar Association. Because it broke the confidentiality of lawyers -- well, that happened in 2008, when the law against money laundering was introduced, according to which lawyers must report suspicious transactions to the Ministry of Finance. So that's been the case since 2008. The European Union has just said that it will not only involve money laundering, but it will also involve cooperation in international tax management. So that's actually the break-in my colleague Kalousek is telling us. In his view, that is all right, if we are to break the confidentiality of attorneys, if we are to protect German, Austrian or French taxes, but if we are to protect Czech taxes, this is supposedly an intervention in constitutional rights. So I completely disagree with that, and basically all the states that implemented the DAC 5 directive have implemented it in such a way that it applies both to international tax administration and to national tax administration. So in that respect, I think it's nothing unusual. And if we really want to combat tax evasion effectively, then it is necessary that this regulation, which is already in force abroad - for example in Slovakia, if the lawyer does not give those data which relate exclusively to commercial transactions, he is threatened with a fine of several thousand euros. And I wanted to comment on the nature of the secrecy. Articles have been published on the Internet by a lawyer named Tomáš Sokol, who claims that lawyers will have to provide information to citizens about divorce, information that people will come to consult with a lawyer. To this end, it must be said that this is not true, because Section 27 of the Act against Money Laundering clearly states that the retention of data does not apply to legal advice cases and does not apply to cases of representation before a court or other preliminary hearing. It really applies exclusively to business transactions such as the creation of legal entities, such as financial transfers, and such operations as those through which camouflage, concealment of origin and evasion of tax obligations and money laundering occur. So the basic argument why I think this amendment should be adopted is that we actually suspect that there are relatively high leaks, and that there are small employees, entrepreneurs, normal people - 99 percent of this population, which does not use legal services for business transactions. The proposal, as it is designed, is designed very carefully, much more carefully than in all the other European countries that implemented Directive DAC 5, as I mentioned it. There's a limit of 500 thousand. crowns of tax evasion, which means that it applies only to suspicions of tax crimes. Slovakia? It's unlimited there. There could be much lower amounts. So in this respect, we have been very careful and we have incorporated control mechanisms into this proposal to limit any possibility of abuse. If I point to the example of a citizen, a citizen would have to keep that information under the Money Laundering Act and be obliged to provide it under the amendment, for example, it would have to be a real estate deposit of 12,5 million. Kroner, or this guy would have to make 270 grand. CZK monthly regular income. So that's the amount that can't happen to an ordinary citizen. [[9.30 hours]] I think that since the proposal was recommended by both the Budget Committee and the Ministry of Finance, as well as here in the Chamber of Deputies, there is an effort to fight tax evasion, especially of large fish, not just small fish, I wanted to ask you to support the proposal and not let the other taxpayers pay for these big fish. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u9	I thank Mr Michálek. We have two factual points, one Mr Miroslav Kalousek, then Mrs Helena Válková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u10	Thank you for the floor. With all due respect, Mr President Michálek, this is not - the 2008 breakthrough concerns money laundering and the fight against terrorism, and it is not designed so that the tax officer could, on the basis of the consideration that perhaps someday in the future, not be paid a tax, simply break the silence. Your construction is completely different, and it's unprecedented. There's no point in referring to what's in the law in 2008. It's just a completely different structure. And I repeat that sentence again, which is true, not that it isn't true. Here, this amendment is now designed to intervene in constitutional rights on the basis of the consideration that, at some point in the future, a tax should not be paid, and this intervention in constitutional rights will have no meaningful control, while, in the case of law enforcement authorities, it has that meaningful control. If you argue that this is a major corporation in particular, I dare tell you, from the experience of the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, that this is not the case. Big corporations don't hide behind law firms, they have their Alexej Bílka on a full-time job, and they do it on their own. Maybe you mean well, but it's just heading in a different direction. The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Madam Secretary is claiming priority rights, but I have two more factual points here, Madam Secretary. So Mrs Helena Válková, with a factual point, Mr Michálek, also with a factual point. Madam, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, very briefly. Unfortunately, the whole law here, the amendment to the Tax Code, is in order, except for the amendment, for the very reasons that have been discussed here. So I am certainly not a follower of the impenetrable extensive interpretation of the confidentiality of a lawyer, tax advisor, auditor, insolvency administrator. On the contrary. And when you read the proposed text, only its vagueness: "In the event of finding out the facts suggesting that the tax entity to which the data and documents relate did not or will not fulfil the tax obligation of CZK 500,000," it in itself gives me deep distrust of how it will be interpreted by the tax administrator and how it will be prepared - and that is to say, I will refute the claim that my previous speaker here, through you, Mr Michálek, has said that all the other countries have actually implemented in this concept. That's not true at all. So I'm curious how the attorney or tax advisor will prepare it from the file and separate it. I just can't! You, my dear fellow, have never done a law practice properly through you. I can't!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u13	I also thank you for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Jakub Michálek, also with a point of fact and then with the priority right of the Minister of Finance. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u14	Thank you. I just wanted to give a factual answer to the fact that in the present regulation, the mechanisms in the FAO case are much more vague, there are no limits. There is simply FAÚ when it conducts investigations and needs information, so it requires them and there are no limits. So it's not true that we're doing something here that's just more vague or less strict. On the contrary, we put that limit there so that it could never end up with small normal people who have income that corresponds to average income. So the FAU today, when it needs information, according to Section 24, will require it, and for those purposes, money laundering, terrorist financing - of course, money laundering can also be related to tax crimes, because that's where the money obtained by tax crimes is legalized, it needs to be ensured as if it were protected, cleanliness. When we look at how it works, for example, in the UK, there is one office in the UK, it is simply Her Majesty's Revenue, and this service has very broad powers and requires information like the FAO in the Czech Republic, so it requires it as the General Financial Directorate, which is the part that we are talking about and for all purposes. So in the UK, they have a much wider implementation, where the lawyers have to even proactively report the facts that may be about establishing trusts. So please don't talk about it being unconstitutional. I am convinced that the Constitutional Court will sweep this complaint, as it has swept away a whole series of other complaints. After all, when you look at the debates that took place in the past, in 2003, TomáTomáš Sokol said that, in fact, the law, the proposals for amending the law against money laundering are unconstitutional and that it has not been here since communism. And you know who put it up then, the anti-money laundering adjustment in 2003 and who they blamed for going back to... [[The President shall enter into his speech with notice of the expiry of the time limit on the factual remark.]] It was Pavel Rychetský, President of the Constitutional Court. So if...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u15	Please observe the Rules of Procedure, Mr President! One more point in fact, Mrs Válková, then with the Prime Minister's priority right. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u16	I don't think I'm gonna use that time. I recommend to your colleague, Mr Michálek, that he get to know exactly what was covered by the breach of confidentiality in relation to the FAO in connection with legalization, virtually. combating the legalisation of the proceeds of crime. There it is clenched again by certain facts, the actions described. So we can't compare it. And, of course, it caused some concern, but it is precisely because it is limited to certain types of specifically defined crime that can be lived with. Here, as I have read the citation of your amendment, through Mr President, it is too vague and it is heading for the future. And already in the theory of law, we have learned that the actions that should be criminal in the future suffer precisely from the lack of constitutionality compared to the proportionality test.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more time, Madam Secretary, wait. So, my colleague Benda cancels his point of order, he's duly logged in. Madam Secretary with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I'm looking, unfortunately, President Kalousek is not here. That's too bad, because I wanted to say it's not what he says it is. So, briefly, I'm going to try to be completely factual and clear. As it is now. We have the Money Laundering Act, which we have here since about 2008 or 2009, if I'm not mistaken, and it contains a group of obliged persons. At the same time, there is a set of data which these obliged persons must communicate to the Financial Analytical Office. So the cards are long overdue in this direction. The DAC directive merely states that in the future, these persons and this information - nothing new, no new persons, no new information - will provide tax authorities for the purposes of international cooperation in tax administration. We decided to implement the tax system because we wanted - and this was actually our original proposal from the Ministry of Finance's workshop in the legislative process - that we wanted a level playing field, and we did not conceal it. That is indeed true, we have been openly saying from the beginning that we are going beyond implementation and that it has its logic, because when the information is to be given to the German, Austrian, Italian tax administrator, why it should not be given to the Czech tax administrator. This is how we treated it. [[9.40 hours]] At the same time, I would like to point out that the AML Act, the Money Laundering Act, which we have here so long ago, and it was approved under completely other ministers and another Chamber of Deputies, and it has been valid for years, so it strictly prohibits requiring information or giving information that would affect untouchable legal secrecy, that is, concerning legal representation, criminal proceedings, and, on the contrary, it says what information may be mentioned, such as mediation. That means if the lawyer knows he's brokered a deal for money laundering, he should give the information. I have decided to do so in a moment to support Mr Michálek's proposal for a simple reason. The Treasury has always wanted it this way. I know that because I was part of it as Deputy Minister. We have been to the Government's Legislative Council twice, we have not marched and we have therefore retreated that we have said that we will therefore agree to international cooperation in tax administration, because we would not simply move on. But just so you know, before you decide. Belgium, Bulgaria, Ireland, Greece, Spain, Italy, Cyprus, Romania, Poland. All the others, I'm not gonna name them, so I don't hold you back, all the others are being transponed in the same way. This means that this allows not only the European tax administrator but also the domestic tax administrator to do so. And I beg you, without the narrow throat proposed by Mr Michálek in the amount of CZK 500,000. And I agree with that narrow throat. These countries all, the others, have been transcended without a narrow throat, which means any transaction. But I say, I have no problem supporting the parliamentary motion with the sum of CZK 500,000, because we do not aim for others. I will also support the proposal of the Constitutional Legal Committee to exchange this information with each other. This means not the ordinary tax administrator with the ordinary attorney, but specifically the centres, the General Financial Directorate versus, for example, the Bar Association. I will support all of this, but on the other hand, I ask you to simply support this adjustment and not send a signal to Europe that we do not want to fight money laundering and tax evasion in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u19	I thank the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and we will continue with the debate where Mr Václav Klaus is now signed up. Mr. Vojtěch Munzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u20	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I must begin by saying that, perhaps for the second time in my life, I will have to agree with Mr Kalousek, although not entirely. I reject the amendment as a whole, not only part of the amendment, because this amendment breaks confidentiality in the profession of attorney, notary, tax advisors, bailiffs and auditors. The primary duty of the state is not merely to collect taxes; it is the duty of the state to provide people with free life. We should keep that in mind. The obligation of confidentiality of a lawyer is a fundamental prerequisite for legal assistance. It doesn't make any sense without it. I'm gonna say something unpopular about you. There's a lot of hysteria going on here when it comes to some committee that's gonna change again in six months. But yesterday we're gonna approve a European warrant, and today we're gonna approve a breach of attorney's confidentiality? That's more or less the preparation of dictatorship, you might say. I don't think, unlike some here, that the defense is part of the prosecution. I hope there are more of us like that. Mr Michálek, through Mr President, is he constantly talking about the tax collection and the evasions and the like and putting in place a breach of the confidentiality of the lawyer? So let me give you some advice: perhaps the introduction of torture will also significantly increase the tax return and you can defend it with exactly the same structures. This is just something completely incredible! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u21	I thank Mr Václav Klaus. Now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have two things to say in my performance. In the second part, I will comment on Mr Michálek's proposal, but in the first part, I would like to take the liberty of defending the amendment that you have in your materials and which unfortunately did not receive my support in the Committee on Budgets. And it may also have something to do with the way I talk about it with Mr Michálek's amendment. My proposal concerns the so-called divided or divided tax administration. In the Tax Code, there is a provision that states that if the tax administrator has acted unlawfully or unlawfully, in the case of a divided administration, or of a separate administration, the tax entity has the right to compensatory interest. In the framework of the Sunday Administration, and it got there by a novel from 1. 7 2017, so in the framework of the divided administration, this is, for example, when you are fined by the Czech Trade Inspection, but it is enforced by another entity, such as the Customs Administration, so the entrepreneur does not have the right to this interest. Why did it get there in 2017? Because the State did not want to give this compensation, this interest also within the framework of the tax administration. The Supreme Court has spoken about this several times and decided that such an entrepreneur is entitled to this interest. However, thanks to Amendment 1. 7. there was a sentence that says that interest does not have the right of an entity in the framework of a divided tax administration. And I don't like it, because we have an entrepreneur here on the one hand, who, thanks to the lawlessness of the tax administrator's procedure, is entitled to interest, and then we have an entrepreneur who is not entitled to this interest. And the difference is whether or not there's a separate tax administration. I think that there has been a great inequality before the law and we should heal it, and that is why I am proposing this amendment. So that would just be a brief evaluation, I've already performed and you can find detailed justification in my materials. But I would also like to comment on this proposal by Mr Michálek, through Mr President, and I would like to take the liberty of reading one sentence if he listens to me: 'The Czech pirate party wants to fight with all legal means against a) abuse of laws to restrict freedom'. That's your election program. We have also witnessed the fact that laws are often used to the detriment of tax entities. The most shining example is the abuse of warranty orders. And here you come with a very vague formula. You say it's very accurate. But let me quote you again - your proposal of the "reality insinuating it" type is not exactly defined wording, it is really very vague. There was no or no fulfilment of the tax obligation. There's not a single control mechanism in your proposal. There's nothing to say about how the clerk should proceed. It's on the will, often on the evil of that clerk. And we all know that it won't be interpreted the way you want it to be interpreted. There's always someone in the state administration who's gonna misinterpret it the hardest for the tax entity. And that's what's gonna happen. And it will be your direct responsibility, you and your political party, and you are going against your own agenda. This is because the fundamental values - the constitutionally guaranteed right to privacy is one right that is constitutionally guaranteed to all of us, and the other right to legal aid. This is a pretext for adopting an amendment to the tax rules, which does not correspond to the original objectives of the directive in question. And I think it contradicts the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. When I spoke of the right to legal aid, the fifth Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms enshrined the right to legal aid as one of the fundamental rights falling within the broader framework of the so-called right to a fair trial. The right to privacy, including the right to the preservation of human dignity, personal honor, reputation, prohibition of disclosure or other abuse of personal data, is also constitutionally guaranteed. In order to fulfil the meaning of legal aid and privacy protection, it is necessary to ensure that the communication between the lawyer and the client takes place without inhibition. If there is a risk that this will not be confidential, it cannot be assumed that such communication will be honest and open, which completely contradicts the purpose of the constitutionally guaranteed legal aid right. [[9.50 hours]] You said right now that lawyers have to report it when it comes to money laundering. But this proposal of yours does not concern this. There is indeed a very vague formulation and can be interpreted in any way. That is why we received letters not only from attorney Sokol, we all received letters from the Czech Bar Association, the constitutional lawyers commented on this. And I'm afraid your concern is only that wish is the father of the thought. You think it will only be interpreted by you. But there are a lot of lawyers here. We know that when two lawyers meet, it makes three opinions. So how can you guarantee people that they won't take advantage of it? And how will you guarantee people that it will only be interpreted by you? Well, it won't be. I can put my hand in the fire for that. So I believe that you yourselves are violating your own program. You're not introducing any control mechanisms. You said there were control mechanisms. The provision you are proposing does not contain any control mechanism. There is no mention in the amendment to the Tax Code that the Czech Bar Association, through which it could go, could refuse such a request. It's not there. So this proposal certainly interferes with the protection of freedom, privacy and the right to legal aid. And I'm surprised you brought it up with a breach of your own agenda at the third meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u23	I thank Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mr Marek Benda will be ready, then Mr Kupka. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly share the opinion of the Mayor's Club and independent of the amendment to the Tax Code Act. The original aim of Directive DAC 5 and its transposition into the tax system was to improve international cooperation against tax crimes. The Ministry of Finance, however, moves this amendment to significantly strengthen the power of the Czech Financial Administration. We believe that asking banks for data, this is a breach of banking secrecy in purely national cases, and we consider this to be wrong. Among other things, as has already been said here, the authorities must, respectively. the institution shall inform the Financial Analysis Service if it finds any errors. The Ministry of Finance therefore goes beyond the directive when it wants the Financial Administration to have data from domestic banks, payment service providers or lawyers. Among other things, I would like to comment on Mr Michálek's amendment. We believe that this is an unprecedented breach of legal secrecy, or an unconstitutional intervention. It is also unacceptable for representation in commercial transactions to have legal protection other than other legal relations. Among other things, it was also said that the lawyer, if he finds that the client is carrying out suspicious transactions, must inform the Financial Analytical Service. This means that the breach of confidentiality is regulated by the law against money laundering, so this amendment is useless. I would also like to note that confidentiality protects mainly clients, not lawyers, and that most lawyers lead their clients and have an obligation to lead their clients to the relevant exercise of rights and obligations. If Mr Stanjura's amendment had not been passed, respectively. Benda, then we won't support this novel. At the same time, we will not support the Pirates' amendment. In conclusion, the Minister often cites examples from abroad that some countries have implemented the directive in the same way as the Czech Republic. And I ask, then, Madam Secretary, if we propose an amendment to the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes, where municipalities should receive one third of all tax revenues, so what is the case in a number of countries of the European Union, will you also support it? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Now, Mr Marek Benda, Mr Martin Kupka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u26	Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, the rapporteur has disappeared, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I thought it was a little unfair of you, Mr Vice-President, to push me off as a written application when you registered me, to acknowledge me, and then you... so I figured I didn't have to report in writing anymore, and then you pushed me away. But I guess it doesn't matter. I would rather now, because much has already been said, want to say a little bit about the representation of the Minister, which I consider to be essentially deeply unfair and disloyal not to this House, but to the government. Madam Secretary here represents the government. Not yourself, not your resort. The government has decided in some way - and I must say that I am sorry at the moment that the Prime Minister is not here and that the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister are not here and that the Government's legislative board will not express what the government is thinking. If the government is presenting what it's presenting, with full knowledge, or if it's just like we agreed on this, but if the Treasury wants to adjust it in some other way, then let the Treasury adjust it in some other way. I find this really unfair, because there is an attempt to circumvent the Government by the Ministry of Finance with the assistance of Mr Michálek, respectively. Ferjenčík, but it's still the same. Trying to bypass the government and say, what we didn't get away with in the government, what the Government Legislative Council rejected as unconstitutional - and I'm just pointing out that it was the Government Legislative Council, it's not some fantasy of some attorneys or some attorneys here thinking. The Government's Legislative Council recommended that the government not go through the way of breaking other secrets of attorneys, notaries, auditors and others in relation to financial institutions other than those to which the directive necessarily binds us. And the Treasury is lobbying for the pirát that I really expected to be more of a group that will defend human freedom, and they won't run into what the Ministry of Finance is trying to enforce. And I'm really sorry and I really find it unfair for the Treasury Secretary on behalf of the government - she doesn't speak on behalf of anyone else here, she doesn't speak here as a resort - on behalf of the government, she said "we have a positive opinion on the proposal" that the government has thrown out of her proposal, knowingly and on the basis of the opinion of her advisory body, which the Government's Legislative Council is. So I would ask that we also think about this: we have a government proposal and the finance secretary is currently trying to bypass the government. Not just us MPs, but a government that somehow decided and headed somewhere. That's a general remark. Then I would ask that - as Mr Kalousek has already said, but I would like it to be proposed as a change of procedure, and I am sorry that there is no rapporteur here, but there is probably nothing to be done about this - that there is an amendment to vote on my proposal for a change of procedure. That first there will be a vote on the amendment under letter C, which is Mr Stanjura's proposal, respectively. My insertion into the system, which was subsequently taken up by Mr Stanjura. This is the purest one that says: we are only implementing the directive. [[10.00 hours]] I think it's fair for the House to decide on him by vote. If the House decides not to go the way of the government proposal, it is, of course, the law of the House, but I consider it a little unfair that my proposal should not be voted on simply because it is placed somewhere else and that it is said, well, unfortunately, you are in the order, you are unlucky, your proposal will no longer be voted on. If this proposal fails, then the vote is on the proposal of Mrs Válková, respectively. a constitutional committee, which I consider a reasonable compromise, which maintains confidentiality in relation to the Czech tax authorities and at the same time introduces a narrow throat. And I beg you very much not to support the lobbyist proposals of the pirate party, virtually. The Treasury Department that's trying to tear down the government's bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u27	I thank Mr Marek Benda and I have noted both the opinion of Mr Kalousek and his colleague on the procedure, and we will certainly return to this when discussing the procedure. Mr Jakub Michálek and Mr Kupka are now prepared to make a factual remark. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to go against the accusation that this is some kind of lobbyist proposal. The proposal was prepared by me in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, from which I requested various options as to how this issue can be regulated. I gave it to the Constitutional Legal Committee, and they all sat there and saw it. It's a proposal that was made within the state. And lobbyist proposals, these are the proposals that you put forward through Mr President. So you do not present them through the President, but the proposals prepared by banks, the Bar Associations, etc. And in some cases, many of the things that were said here were simply read from the opinion of the Czech Bar Association. Well, lawyers do exactly what their job is - defend their interests. And their interest is not to be regulated by the state. Of course, they will protest against all regulation of money laundering, all regulation of tax evasion, etc. I don't think the freedom we have in the program as a pirate party means the freedom to launder dirty money and organize massive tax evasion. You really can't say that. The lawyer is already under an obligation to report, and it certainly does not apply that the obligation to remain silent by the lawyer is unlimited. So much for a colleague to understand each other. And I really don't like this accusation of lobbyist pressure or anything, because the only lobbyist pressure we have here is from lawyers like Mr. Sokol, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u29	Thank you for keeping time. We've got some more factual points, a colleague of Kupka's gonna make it. Marek Benda, Zbyněk Stanjura, Vojtěch Munzar. So Marek Benda first with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u30	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask my club president not to speak to Mr Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u31	Well, I'm going to delete your time and ask the House for peace, and I'm going to run again. [[Busy in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you are discussing something other than the tax code, please in the foyer! Let us respect each other and leave those who have been given the floor to express their opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u32	I have no doubt that colleagues are discussing tax rules. But I would just like to respond to what Mr. Michálek said. First of all, it's not some Sokol attorney, but it's the entire management of the Bar Association. Just so we don't simplify it. So are the notary chambers, and so are all the other chambers. And second of all, who is a lobbyist, it's not your decision to make. For me, the Ministry of Finance and Financial Authorities is as dangerous a lobbyist against the will of the government - and now I say again and again against the will of the government - as any chamber. This is simply a two-interest fight, and let us not pretend that the financial authorities are also not lobbying to have it as simple as possible, and even in this case they are going through the government. So I think it's really unfair to say that one is lobbyists and the other is saints because it's a state. The state also has its interests. I understand he's trying to defend them. But here we have some government proposal, and you, in favor of the Ministry of Finance, on the basis of the Ministry of Finance's evidence, have talked you into it - now I don't know what word is right - you are trying to defend the interests of the Financial Administration against the Government of the Czech Republic against this House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Zbyněk Stanjur, then Vojtěch Munzar, Marek Výborný, Jakub Michálek. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u34	I would like to draw attention to the error in Mr Michálek's logical approach. Don't tell me it was written by lobbyists - and the second sentence - was written by lobbyists. So they have different standards for each other than for us. We're able to write it ourselves. What is lobbyist about the proposal "let us implement a purely European directive without our domestic improvements"? Is that a lobbyist proposal? Anyone can throw that away, even you, Prime Minister Michálek, from that proposal what's extra. If it's right, I suppose it is, if there's a significant part that's implementing, and the part that the Treasury is adding, it's very simple. No one has to write that to us. I read yesterday's justification for President Michálek in the press, maybe I won't quote accurately, so I apologize that this is a measure that goes against large corporations and aggressive tax optimizations. That's how you put it, Mr President, through the Vice-President. And here you said the 500 grand. It doesn't hit small and ordinary. Well, it hits even small companies, 500 thousand, even a small company, if they buy something, they can have a VAT of 500 thousand. And some clerk may conclude that she might not pay the tax. 500 thousand. Is the amount that multinational corporations have aggressively tax planning for? You can't be serious! If that's the case, you have to change the currency. [[Laughter and applause from the right.]] I'm sure it's not 500 grand. Kroner, I'm sure you didn't. And Marek Benda talked about it. And I'm really embarrassed that the other ministers who voted against the Ministry of Finance's proposal are silent here and they're gonna let the Treasury Secretary say, well, it doesn't matter that the government fired it, some suspicious Legislative Council of the Government, President Michálek here is exactly in the Intensities of the Ministry of Finance. That you work for them in their favor, it's legitimate, I don't question it, but you always turn around, 500 grand. - Thank you. [[The President draws attention to the expiry of the time limit for the factual remark.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u35	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Vojtěch Munzar, with a factual remark. Before I give him my word, I state that there has been an apology from the meeting of Minister of Culture Ilja Šmíd for urgent work reasons. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u36	Thank you. Hello again. I, in turn, want to respond through the President to what President Michálek has said. You're hiding it here for fighting dirty money, but the wording really is this: a fact suggesting that there hasn't been or will not be fulfilment of the tax obligation. There's no talk of big corporations. This is the case - the interpretation will be the worst thing I've said here, and I really think it will be, it will be the worst thing against those tax entities. And you can't guarantee it won't be. There is no refinement in this amendment of yours, there are no control mechanisms. And you really are going against the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Because lawyers already have a duty to report money laundering. But you are losing this right to privacy, adding additional responsibilities to them, giving opportunities and rights to the Financial Administration, and this really goes against the constitutionally guaranteed rights of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Marek Výborný, also with a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, my colleagues, I originally wanted to speak in a proper debate, but my colleague Michálek provoked me because here we are really going to distinguish the things that are on the table. After all, there are some clearly defined constitutional rights, not lawyers, not not not notaries, not executors and others, but citizens, those clients. And by working together... And I'm sorry the Minister of Justice isn't here to comment, because he should be here to give a clear statement for the Ministry of Justice. Because it seems to me that one resort, in cooperation with a group of Pirates, is running some holy war here for the would-be benefit of the citizens... But that is not really the benefit of the citizens. [[10.10 hours]] There is a breach of what is protected by the Constitution. And it is our duty to respect that. If this is enforced, we all know that the Constitutional Court will immediately comment on this. Let us please take this in plain sight and, in my view, we must reject the lobbyist efforts of one group here. I would like to make it clear for the KDU-ČSL club here now that it is followed by the procedural proposal of my colleague Marek Benda, and if what we think is the purest is not passed, i.e. let's just implement and nothing more, because here again we are trying to be more papal than the Pope and to use one standard to enforce some of our interests or interests of the Financial Administration, so if this does not pass, then let's support the sensible compromise proposal by Mrs Válková. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, the rapporteur's factual point. Mr Jan Volný came forward with a point of fact, Mr Václav Klasu will be prepared for a point of fact. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u40	I thank the President for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak here either from the left or from the right, just to sum up some facts that I feel as a Free Member. One thing is that it is really illogical, if we act today, and we are likely to have to agree that this sensitive information, or we are going to give this information to colleagues from both tax administrations and foreign states on request, is really giving me an illogical solution so that we do not allow our authorities and our tax administrators to obtain this information. The second thing that lies in my head is why 15 very important states, which have already had this implementation and have approved it, have approved the approval of this implementation precisely by their authorities to receive this information from these channels and even without the narrow voice that Mr Michálek has put there, i.e. half a million. They really think it's 20 crowns. The third point is the argument that there is also talk of some future non-payment of tax or future forward-looking problem that should be addressed and reported. Well, of course, this attribute is preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. Then if it's already happening, what's about prevention? So when it comes to prevention, it must be able to reach even at a time when it is not yet finished, because then, when we deal with it, if the weapons are somewhere in the Far East, it's completely unnecessary. It simply gives me logic, and I think we should support Mr Michálek's amendment. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u41	Mr rapporteur, it is also true for you that time needs to be observed for a factual point. I'll read the actual notes. Mr Klaus, Michálek, Langšádlová, Zahradník, Bartoš, Benda. And properly logged in. That's so that the proper registration, Mr. Kupka, Skopeček and Ferjenčík know that they have... And Prime Minister Bartoš is reporting with de facto or with priority? If with priority rights, then before Mr Kupka, because factual remarks are also before priority rights. So only after a colleague of Benda. But I would remind you that it is necessary to sign up electronically for a factual remark. Mr. Václav Klaus. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u42	Thank you. Just a little bit of emotion. Note the hatred that Mr Michálek has expressed in his voice the words "Sokol lawyer." They're like Sokol's attorneys. Parliament's Member is attacking an upstanding citizen of the Czech Republic who pays taxes, etc. . [[Laughing in the Hall]] They're laughing at it here at the counter, like some other movement laughed at it in the past. So let me just warn you that neither the Urválek nor H Frank broke the full confidentiality of attorneys. You're inventing something like this, and you're laughing at it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jakub Michálek is now also making a point of fact. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna take this very seriously. There was a question about control mechanisms. These control mechanisms are incorporated in a proposal which has been approved or recommended by the Constitutional Committee. For one thing, there was a change in the fact that the information was initially requested by all the financial authorities, according to the amendment, only the General Financial Directorate could request it, or one office in a country that should be specialised and which, of course, if there were any actions to bring it to the administrative court, and there is also protection in the administrative justice system. Furthermore, it is in accordance with § 58 para. 3 that the tax administrator will try to obtain it in a different way before asking for the information, which should also limit part of the cases where it will be used. Furthermore, it says that the information will be requested in the form of a call, so it also requires some justification, although, of course, it is quite brief in the tax proceedings. It also says that this will be required through the Czech Bar Association, which should ensure that there is no abuse, and if the application is not properly justified or there is another suspicion of lawlessness, it may recommend that the lawyer defend himself in an administrative court. And the last thing we put in there, which is beyond how all the European states that have implemented it have it, is that there is a limit to the fact that it will actually only turn out to be suspected of tax crimes. And the phrase "reality insinuating" is exactly the same as in the Code of Criminal Procedure. There's really nothing new about that, it's exactly the same as it is in the Code of Criminal Procedure. So the control mechanisms are built in there, they're solid, and we believe there will be no abuse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Helena Langšádlová's point of order. You have the floor on a point of fact, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would again like to make such a general remark on the implementation of the European directives. When we talked about this last time, the Minister, and thanks for that, taught me that, in general, the implementation of the text being implemented or the text relating to implementation is underlined. I took such a test between Members across, and I found that most of us really, or almost all, did not know that. This is our fault. But still, I'd like to ask you a lot. I think that we should talk about whether, in the case of the implementation of the directive, we should not only have the net implementation here and not have the other amendments in other proposals, because perhaps the discussion of those points where the draft EU law is always written would be greatly accelerated, although I know that implementation allows for different alternatives for Member States. And if that is not the case, I would still very much like it if even in the text of the explanatory report, in the evaluation, as we know about other cases, if it is compatible with something, with some regulation, so that even in the explanatory report there is clearly a paragraph that will actually put us into which part of the proposed law is really implementation and which part is something extra, as we know it in other evaluations in the explanatory reports. There is nothing against it, but it would make the proposals very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I have four factual points ahead of me, and then the Minister's priority right. Now, Mr Jan Zahradník, with a factual remark, and then Mr Ivan Bartoš, also with a factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when this House is about breaking freedom, it always creates a heated debate. During the last parliamentary term, such a discussion aroused a breach of home freedom by allowing controllers to climb into private homes and apartments and to control what they were drowning in their stoves. The House approved this after a heated discussion, even the Constitutional Court confirmed this unfortunate practice. We're all getting used to it, no one opposed it, no one opposed the violation of this freedom, nowadays even protests against it. [[10.20 hours]] Today we have a violation of the citizen's freedom to be represented in court by a lawyer who will honor and have to honor the principle of confidentiality, everything that the citizen learns from it. And once again, we can ask where all these activists are, all those human rights defenders. Why don't all those freedom defenders against this, sometimes so agile? They just keep quiet, which means they agree to it, and they don't know that it can ever turn against them. And there's one more thing. This is proposed by the Pirates party, which founded its existence long ago on the fact that in their view there is freedom to draw upon other people's intellectual property unlimitedly and to copy and download and draw from all possible sources without restriction. [[Let's hear it for a few pirates.]] And so they are now making a proposal that significantly limits one of the fundamental civil liberties. I'm surprised and curious to see how they're going to comment on this now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time to the point of fact. Mr Ivan Bartoš's point of view now. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u50	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am just cleaning quickly. We have been founded with the postulate that we are paying particular attention to the protection of human privacy in the 21st century and the free dissemination of information and the search for balance between these two interests. I'd like to respond quickly to three things. The first is the untruth that has been said here about some sort of cutting-edge preparation of a lobby proposal with the Ministry of Finance. If you look into our transparent systems, into the Redmine system, where we record our steps, there is a clear line of action in the explanatory report. Jakub Michálek expressed his opinion on the committee that he would like to add this matter there and subsequently asked the Ministry for synergies, which is common in legislation in the Czech Republic. Secondly, I find it ridiculous that someone would accuse us of any servility towards the movement YES, Andrej Babiš or the Ministry of Finance. We were very critical of the previous government's legislation. And thirdly, if someone is talking about some kind of preconception and emotional words and unprecedented and clearly unconstitutional are flying here - we ourselves are several times, and even with colleagues from the ODS, they have submitted an initiative to the Constitutional Court against something decided by the Chamber of Deputies. Sometimes we succeeded, sometimes we failed, although we disagreed with it, for example in the case of the Ministry of Finance and in the fight against gambling, where there was blocking websites. That's just the way it is. If there is anything about unconstitutionality, we are fully in line with the fact that if anyone does not like it, this amendment of ours can turn to the Constitutional Court and we will then respect its decision. But we're supposedly young and naive, but we're arguing in a matter of fact here, while I'm hearing some kind of wish or emotional expression, or some kind of act, maybe for the audience, or for the record. Let us please be factual and give the facts that I have said here, including how the preparation went. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u51	Mr President, you have also run out of time to make a point of fact. [[Let's hear it for a few pirates.]] Now, then, Mr Marek Benda, with a factual and Mrs Válková, also with a factual point. And then the Secretary of State with priority rights - I'm on record. A colleague of Benda's - a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u52	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, a brief response to what has just been said here in a factual remark from President Bartoš. I didn't accuse you of being obsessive to the Yes movement or Andrej Babiš. On the contrary, I say that you go around Andrej Babiš, that you connect with the Ministry of Finance against the government. That was the criticism I used. But I wouldn't apply for that. I wanted to ask one thing, and especially after the speech of the rapporteur, but my colleague Michálek has done it several times too. Please don't talk about money laundering and terrorist financing. This has nothing to do with your proposal. Laundering money and financing terrorism is under the FAO, it concerns the AML directive and today it is possible to monitor without any difficulty... All these breakthroughs are made to the extent that the AML directive binds us to this. What you are talking about may be potential common tax evasion, but not what affects the AML directive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u53	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mrs Helena Válková also made a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I just wanted to make it clear in substance what I said earlier in the general position, because I heard that it would also be good to be specific, from Mr Bartoš, by your means, Mr President. Thus, those countries that did not transpose the directive, as has been said here, that is to say, we would have done, if we had accepted Mr Michálek's proposal, so it is Germany, Austria, France, Spain. So these are countries that have a system of continental law, not Anglo-Saxon law like Great Britain. And it is not true that these countries would go beyond the directive. So it would be good to stick to really factual facts and not have MPs who may not have that kind of study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u55	I also thank you for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Michálek with a point of fact, then with the priority right of the Minister of Finance. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Really very factual. It is not true that the AML and DAC 5 directives are not related. Directive DAC 5 explicitly refers to Directive AML, precisely for the purpose of determining the heading of the data to be provided. That means data on business transactions. That was a reaction to a colleague of Benda. I don't see him anywhere now, so I guess it was pointless. But to keep the debate simply within a reasonable framework and to rely on facts and documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u57	Thank you. One more point in fact, Mrs Válková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u58	I just wanted to say that it was France, Germany and Spain that limited the transfer to money laundering.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u59	Thank you, too. Mr Munzar is now also making a point of fact. Madam Secretary is very patient, waiting for her opportunity. [[Madam Secretary wakes up.]] Not yet, then a colleague Munzar with a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u60	I also have a factual point to make at the moment for the speech by President Michálek, through the President. Yes, DAC 5 contains references to AML. But your proposal goes beyond this directive, so it doesn't concern either DAC 5 or AML. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u61	Thank you. Now the Minister of Finance with priority rights, then Mr Martin Kupka duly entered into the debate. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be factual and brief. First of all, Mr Benda's comment on the circumvention of the government proposal. We really are, and I know what I'm talking about, because I've been going through this whole deputy proposal, and I know that we've been to the Government's Legislative Council twice, we haven't marched and we've retreated. We were given an opinion where the Government's Legislative Council had doubts about the proportionality test, so we retreated and went to the government with a proposal that concerned these professional chambers only with international cooperation in tax administration. But this proportionality test is actually because Mr Michálek proposes a limit of CZK 500,000, so it is resolved. And I, forgive me, will always support this amendment, it has actually appeared on the Constitutional Legal Committee for the first time, I will support what is rational, regardless of what anyone has proposed. As far as cooperation on the amendments is concerned, I have always supported this as Deputy Minister. There are a number of opposition Members, I will not appoint them, not only in the Chamber of Deputies, but also senators in the Senate, with whom we cooperated in the technical preparation of legislative proposals, amendments, and even then we disagreed. It's okay. But it is better for us to participate in the preparation of the technical proposal so that it is legislatively correct than then simply have some problems provided that the proposal is approved. So this is a legitimate process that normally works. And let's face it, let's just not look for any conspiracy. He's not there. I know what the whole thing was. But let's face it, common sense has won, which I'm glad. [[10.30 hours]] Madame Langšádlová's comment. It is aimed more generally at the legislative rules of the government. Indeed, it is as I said at the previous meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The implemented part is always underlined, it's imposed by legislative rules. It couldn't have gone any further, because it wouldn't have been allowed by individual commissions and by the Government's Legislative Council. I will not express myself in general as it is in the explanatory reports of other laws, but in ours it is certainly well described, because even President Kalousek said that we never covered it up, so I guess it was clear to everyone. Little point, I'm fixing myself. In my last speech, I said that we have had the AML Directive since 2008. It was in the heat of the fight. We've had it here since 1996, to be absolutely accurate. And now, please, to the Válková Member. I'm sorry, it's not true. Unfortunately, I don't have Spain coming out here, I didn't go out in any way, but I'm gonna read France. France is a typical country that has gone beyond that, so the documents they have prepared for you, Madame, are not correct. As of 1 January 2018, the French tax report has the possibility to contact financial institutions, regulated professions - lawyer, judicial officer, etc., casinos, etc. a request for information held by such persons in accordance with the law of AML and for the purposes of the national tax administration. The penalty is EUR 10,000. As far as Spain is concerned, I'm sorry, I didn't go out, but I'm gonna find Germany real quick. DAC 5 was implemented through a special German law. On the Internet is used shortcut for this StUMGBG, collection number has 1682 and in the collection was published in July 2017. There is a significant tightening of the notification obligation. 10% of the threshold for both direct and indirect shares in foreign capital companies was legalised. If this threshold is exceeded, German taxpayers are required to report to the German tax administration. The notification obligation is also tightened with the above mentioned other companies. It concerns all companies outside the EU, the EEC or Switzerland. The condition is not the amount of the share, but the substantial or decisive influence in Germany of resident investors. So much, basically. I don't have Spain here, I'm sorry, but Spain has also been implemented beyond that. So I'm just specifying the information that's been said here. Just a little point. In addition to DAC 5's discussions at all with Mrs Kovářová, unfortunately she is not here, but she spoke about whether I would support the participation of municipalities in shared taxes to reach at least 30% of Europe's share of taxes. He's reaching out to her. Basically, this border is long overdue by the Czech Republic. The municipalities receive 23.58 % of shared taxes, 8.92 % of the county, which is 32.5 % of total. Last year the share was 30.32 % and in 2018 it is estimated that the tax revenues of municipalities will account for 73 percent of their budget. Just for your information, the tax revenues of municipalities and regions have grown in the long run and will not stop growing in the following - this year. In the last four financial years of 2015-18, the municipality's tax revenue has increased by 54 billion, 31 percent, and 19 billion regions, which is 37 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u63	Have a good morning. And now, with factual remarks, I have two registered, so I will first ask Mr Válek for a factual comment and Mrs Helena Válková will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u64	Thank you. I would like to assure the two parties who are debating, through Mr President, that I am honestly trying to understand where the problem is, and I am failing to do so, for which I am deeply ashamed, and extremely, extremely, I would appreciate and support what Mrs Langšádlová said if we separated what is really the implementation of the directive, where I have no reason at all to discuss that something is being implemented to the extent that it is recommended and what is beyond this implementation. So here I hear from one side that we should only implement the directive and not what is beyond, from the other side I hear that only the directive is being implemented. So someone doesn't speak exactly what I think is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And the next in line is Mrs Helena Válková and Mr Adam will be prepared with another factual remark. [[That's right, Adamec.]] Madam, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u66	I just want to be clear. Madam Secretary, I'm sorry, but I'm really sorry about the quote you made here earlier, it's obvious that these negotiations in a relationship that they have transposed and modified their legal legislation of a country such as Germany or France have always been about a foreign element, it has been about commercial corporations and it has to do with things that are related or could be related to suspicions of money laundering. That's what I meant. Mr Michálek's proposed amendment is aimed at something else. This has also been said here. And that may also be an indirect answer to the question put by my previous speaker, who asked where there is a line between what we need to implement and what we don't have to do, and the other side says: we can't, actually, because it won't stand up in that proportionality test.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u67	Thank you, Madame, and the next in line is Mr Adam with the facts. [[Messenger. - Adamec!]] Mr. Adamec. I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u68	Thank you. Mr President, I see you can't come up with a name for me, but I can take it. I wanted to respond to the Minister here when she said that the tax revenues of the municipalities were rising. At a time of economic growth, it would be weird if you didn't. But I think that's the kind of spell you communities want, because you're growing tax revenue?! That is how it needs to be explained, because they grow tax revenues in general in the state. It's a connected vessel. What needs to be said, and I would like it to be used so much that the ratios of distribution remain the same, except for exceptions. That means there's a rise in revenue and the state. And I think you need to say that here. And except for the exceptions, when we changed tax revenue in the area of VAT, respectively. the share of the RUD to the regions in one year - I think it was by a percentage, and in the next year, only when it suited, so to the municipalities, nothing else happened. It's always the same, so let's face it, except it's economic growth, the state collects taxes, which is a good thing, and here taxes are redistributed in constant equal proportions. I wouldn't want to be here until there's some sort of struggle for a budget allocation, a possible redistribution, which is also a problem, because it's still one pick, which just goes from one part to another, so that we can be completely clear about it and not say that the municipalities have enough money. It's not like that, and I thought it was necessary to explain it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will therefore return to the general debate and I have Mr Martin Kupka here. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u70	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, my dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention again to the text of the amendment: in the event of the finding of facts suggesting that the tax entity concerned by the data and documents has not, or will not, been, complied with with the tax obligation. I stress once again: facts suggesting this. I think that everyone, even those who do not have a large legal education, is aware that this is really a vague formulation, and for me, that is a reason not to vote and vote for such an amendment, because the laws are not to be vague. This vague formulation naturally creates space for a very wide interpretation, opening up space for further expansion as a basic principle not the presumption of innocence, but the presumption of guilt, when we are looking for some evil, some badness, some unfairness around each corner. I am convinced that it is not possible to restrict constitutional rights by combating tax evasion with the best and more self-respecting fight against tax evasion. It is also clear that, in this case, there is indeed a restriction on the constitutional rights of citizens. If we break into the confidentiality of lawyers and also interfere with the confidentiality of the relationship between the lawyer and his client, then we simply interfere with the areas protected by the Constitution, and we should not do so. [[10.40 hours]] Moreover, it is clear that we do not live outside of time and space. That we are living at a time when there is evidence of abuse of warranty orders, even the courts have said so. A number of cases are known, e.g. Moreover, the financial administration has unlawfully charged a higher tax. The case of the company Zrtych, where it was CZK 24 million, is known because the company faced an underpayment of CZK 9 million from its sub-contractor, and justice was negotiated by the Supreme Administrative Court after seven years. It is clear that the fundamental task of the state is not only to ensure tax collection, but also to protect citizens, protect citizens' freedom and protect citizens from errors that are also taking place in the case of authorities, even in the case of courts. That is why the rule of law has so many different insurance policies and is based on the principle of weights and contradictions. And at the moment it takes place, a proposal is made that clearly breaks the balance and suddenly avoids the presumption of guilt, that it is excluded that those who, even if the person is just to correct the error, should advise the tax advisor, so he is actually guilty in advance, because he might actually cause an underpayment. He could not pay the tax. I think he gave the crown to all that, at least, for me, Mr Volný's contribution, when it looked like we should almost shut down everyone who behaves suspiciously or sometimes in the future. Translated into this amendment, it would mean that we should actually close all those who come up with facts suggesting that a crime is taking place or may be committed in the future. I would not want to live in a state, and I do not want to live in a state - that is why I am also here in the case of this debate - I would not want to live in a state that really continues to reduce people's confidence that the state will also protect them. That they'll protect them from the mistakes of the authorities, the courts, that they'll protect them in this case, too, from being able to make a mistake of their own and fix it. I so strongly hope that when we pass and negotiate on this law, we will go back to the original wording and consider to what extent it is specific and to what extent it is vague. Facts suggesting that the tax entity to which the data relate has not, or will not be, fulfilled the tax obligation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. And here again, I have some factual points. I've got two here. So I will be the first to ask Mr Volný and prepare Mr Juříček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u72	Thank you. I would like to respond, through the President, to my previous speaker. Well, of course, it's a law or a procedure that should address the prevention of these acts. That is why, of course, the suspicion that this crime might be committed must be addressed. And of course, please, if the police get an echo all over the world that some guy, some group, is buying a large amount of stuff at the drugstore that can be made to bomb and blow up half the square, they're obviously gonna hit and they're not gonna wait for the terrorists to throw it out of the square. And then they say, well, we intervened because there's already been a deed. That's perfectly logical. Not to mention that Germany will also ask us about this information. Not when the money's somewhere in the Far East or when it's embezzled, but because they're gonna suspect it might run out there. Of course, it's about prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u73	Thank you. Next, I will ask Mr Juříček to speak and Mr Stanjura will be prepared. I have a factual remark from Mr. Juříček, and then I have you in line. Thank you. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u74	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you see, I am in business in the ranks of the world, and I must say that - and I am not questioning at all a number of the various errors that have happened in the area of taxation here in the Czech Republic, and that the courts are working slowly, etc. However, I do not see such liberalism as it is in the Czech Republic anywhere. Of course, we will certainly not compare ourselves with China, where I have a factory or in Russia, but I also have a factory in the United States or Germany, and I can tell you that all the principles that apply in these undoubtedly respectable countries are much stricter than those that we apply in the Czech Republic. And back to the law. I have been to a number of discussions, and I can tell you that this broad debate with a number of different actors has come to what is actually the subject of today's debate. I very much welcome what the pirát have done, through Mr President Mr Michálek, because that is precisely how we can solve the suspicions that may lead to the various tax evasions, while at the same time realizing that there is a clear filter that the Czech Bar Association can provide or may not provide on the basis of the information that will be asked of them. So I think it's very balanced and very reasonable for us to deal with other countries that are much fairer in this regard, more stringent. And the prevention, when the money gets away, you don't do anything. The moment the suspicion is confirmed through the attorney's information, then there's still a chance to stop the money. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u75	Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u76	Thank you for the floor. I want to respond to the rapporteur's speech. The comparison just limps. We're talking about suspicion that someone won't pay their taxes, and he's making it look like someone's making a bomb and terrorism. There's no question about that, about the case you were talking about. So either we're talking about fighting terrorism, and we all agree, or we suspect that someone won't pay their taxes. Suspicion. That's the key. Or are you saying that whoever doesn't pay taxes makes bombs? In the dictum of what I'm listening to today, anyone who uses lawyers, tax advisors, auditors is actually a suspect. That they're the professions that cover it. And in particular, it sounds from the mouths of those who have been promoting big companies and big capital over the long term. Well, that's pretty funny! Is a small Czech businessman doing aggressive tax optimization? What would he possibly optimize? And speaking of foreign examples, for Mr Juříček through Mr President, I am reading at this very moment how large American companies do not pay taxes, especially from IT areas, and how the European Commission is considering imposing a European tax on those companies that have it so much tougher than we do. Just from the United States. So let's use the arguments that fit, not the general ones. Everything's wrong with us, we're too liberal. Are we too liberal in our country? Who has so many regulations and regulations? So let's specifically talk about how many regulations we have. How long will it take to start a company in the United States, Germany, and how long in the Czech Republic? Where it's more liberal and where it's not. These are the relevant arguments. Here is a proposal against the will of the government, against the will of the Legislative Council of the Government, which says that everyone is suspicious, which is why we need to examine it. [[Time warning]] So the only recommendation is: everyone put half a million in front of the state, and then you won't be suspects. [[Time warning]] Forward without the state wanting it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u77	Thank you, Prime Minister. And we'll go back to the general debate. So, Mr. Mr. Skopeček, I'd like to speak with you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u78	Good morning. Thank you for the floor. I reject the amendment, not just because of the amendment that aroused so much emotion here, and we're talking de facto about him. However, I made quite an extensive statement of reservations about the standard at the previous reading. The main argument was that, in my view, almost with obsession, we are looking for repressive tools that would affect aggressive tax planning or tax evasion, but we are barely paying attention to the problem of our complex tax system. We're not dealing with how to simplify it. If at least half of the energy spent by the Ministry of Finance on the search for all kinds of repressive tools is devoted to simplifying the tax system - and let's see how the Income Tax Act, according to the number of words, has increased exponentially since the 1990s - I guarantee you that tax evasion will fall very significantly. But like I said, I talked about this at the previous reading. [[10.50 hours]] I would like to address, in particular, Mr Michálek's proposal, which I find truly incredible. In my opinion, this is the most significant and most serious effort in the House in this term of office to hack into privacy and hack citizens' freedom, just as it is, in my opinion, a huge blow to the principles of the rule of law, because although I am not a lawyer and I have not studied the theory of law deeply, in my opinion, the confidentiality of lawyers is simply one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law. We need to realise that we here in the House have the enormous power to enter the privacy of fellow citizens, we have the great power to restrict freedom, but we should weigh on the pharmaceutical scales when to do it and when not, when it is meaningful for the state, when it is not and when the greater value is the freedom of the citizen and the protection of privacy. Everyone's going to have a slightly different balance sheet. Someone clings to freedom and privacy as I do more, someone less, but for each of us it should always be about thinking about it three times and cutting once when we talk about freedom of citizens. When we talk about this law, let's imagine putting a camera in every street, putting a listening device in each law firm, putting a listening device in each company, each of us having a duty to turn each other in, our family members. Undoubtedly, such measures would lead to a reduction in crime in the Czech Republic, not only in the area of tax evasion. But do you feel that the price we would pay for it would be more secure? I don't think so. I don't want to live in a country like this. I want to live in a country where the client will continue to have confidence in his attorney, where there will be the protection of his attorney's secrets, and where we will not be building these incredible proposals for this big brother, who has been growing here for a few years, and this is a very significant step for us to rejoin him. I appeal to all Members, take your senses to the hand. It is not just some technical legal or economic debate on how to prevent tax evasion. It is a big debate about the fact that we are about to have a very significant invasion of privacy and freedom and a very significant breach of one of the fundamental legal principles that belongs to democratic states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have another report for the debate by Mr Ferjenčík. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u80	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly review how the law was created and try to disprove some claims from the right side of the hall. First of all, it must be said that the government proposal has undergone relatively significant developments in the constitutional law committee. And our amendment is not some general amendment that allows the Government's proposal to be extended, but it is, however, a purely legislative amendment to the draft constitutional committee. And what happened to the law on the Constitutional Legal Committee? There was an abolition of the retroactivity of the law, albeit false, so it would probably also pass if it remained there, however it concerns only information that clients, and they are business clients, it is not legal advice, it will inform lawyers who represent them purely in commercial transactions and only in the future. The Constitutional Committee has adopted this measure. This means that it does not concern business information at all, and again I stress which have been dealt with in the past. It's just for the future. So it was one change that happened. Furthermore, the paragraph was deleted in the very non-transpositional part of the law that Mrs Langšádlová mentioned. It has been greatly reduced, the IP addresses and geolocation data of bank clients have fallen out of it. That was actually the biggest dispute in the first discussion of the Committee on Budgets, the non-transpositional part of the directive, when banking secrecy was being extended. We took a very hard stand against this, and on the constitutional law committee, we managed to cross out the most problematic passage of this amendment, namely that banks would have to communicate their clients' IP addresses and geolocation data of their clients to any tax administrators, including municipal authorities, etc. This passage has been removed from the law. Thirdly, the Constitutional Committee has approved that information requests should be centralised. This means that it is requested only through the General Financial Directorate, which is subsequently requested only through the Bar Association. It is certainly not what the government originally suggested that a tax administrator would apply directly to the lawyer, but it is that the General Financial Directorate, through the Bar Association, is asking for an attorney. So the process even has two institutions through which there's a filter going on, if it's not abused. There's no longer a chance that a local authority official who feels like someone didn't pay the dog fees would just take advantage of that. I believe that such things would be filtered out by the General Financial Directorate and, at the same time, the Bar Association can filter things when it considers the requirements of the Financial Office to be excessive. He's got the apparatus, he's got the resources, it's a decision according to the administrative order, he can normally sue in case she feels like there's an injustice being done. Since these changes in the law were supported, so we said OK, now the law has a head and a heel, and so if we want to implement some measures as the Czech Republic - and this concerns international cooperation in tax administration, it should be stressed that this directive concerns international cooperation in tax administration - and if we consider these measures to be reasonable throughout the European Union, then it is logical for us to use them within the Czech Republic as well. If we do not consider them reasonable within the European Union, first of all, the previous governments should have dealt with this and we should not approve it as a whole, but to say that we have to accept this and we cannot do this, we do not find it adequate. I would also concentrate on what he said through Mr Munzar, the President, on the right to legal aid. Everyone here is quoting our amendment, just tactfully concealing Section 1, which he refers to. Section 1 states: A mandatory person under the Act on certain measures against the legalisation of proceeds from crime and terrorist financing, even if he is a person under Section 57, is obliged to provide the following data or documents on request of the tax administrator: (a) the data obtained in carrying out client identification, (b) the data obtained in carrying out client control under the Act on the legalization of proceeds from crime, (c) the data on the method of obtaining data pursuant to (a) and (b) and the documents containing data under (a) and (b). [[11.00 hours]] And that's what we're talking about here. We're actually talking about the law against money laundering and specific paragraphs. We're not even talking about legal aid to people or representation in court. There's no such thing. This is a case where a client comes to a lawyer to do some business for him. And we think that if an attorney works for a client's business, they're supposed to apply the same rules as the client's. Since it is not possible for a person who has an obligation to provide information to the tax administration about his business transactions to avoid this obligation by carrying out the same transaction that he would normally do for him, thus hiding the real owner, thereby preventing control from the financial office. We're not talking about legal aid, we're not talking about representation. We're talking about someone doing business through a lawyer to prevent the Financial Administration from controlling the business. Therefore, we think that this is appropriate in these specific provisions - and there is only the identification of the client and the control of the client - in these provisions it is reasonable for us to provide this information. And I would like us to really talk about these specific provisions, so that colleagues come up with some real examples of possible abuse, and not to play emotional and say, "you're breaking the law secrets here," when it doesn't even involve representing people by attorney, and that data has to be registered today anyway, and it still has to be provided on the FAO's request. So it doesn't even spread a circle of information that's being provided. And I'm very sorry that this debate isn't factual, and we're not talking about whether the paragraph is well written or not, but instead, there's a total senseless lie being pulled out of the hat about lawyers telling information about a divorce or something that explicitly rules out the law. In addition, there is Section 27 in the Law on Money Laundering, which explicitly states which information lawyers are not allowed to provide, and that is precisely the information about legal aid, representation in court and so on. So we're talking about situations where a client's attorney is doing business. He's doing business for him, he's buying companies, he's starting companies, and the client's been giving it to him in the past because he knew the lawyer wouldn't be controllable, unlike him. If this guy was doing the same surgery, the IRS would normally reach out to him. That is why we have proposed that this should also apply to national matters. One more comment. Our proposal doesn't change the process in any way, it doesn't expand the range of information provided in any way. On the contrary, it limits from the bottom, giving it a minimum tax evasion, which is suspected or which has occurred, so that the General Financial Directorate can demand it at all. And otherwise, the provisions that apply to the whole of the European Union are normally applied there. That means, the moment the German tax administrator can ask for information from us in the event that some Čech didn't pay for garbage cans in Berlin, the law allows it without our changer, and no one cares. But all of a sudden, when we said that Czech citizens and the Czech tax administration could have that information over half a million, suddenly there's a fire on the roof. I admit I don't understand. One last thing. We will support the procedural proposal that Benda and Stanjura's proposal be put to the vote first. We think that when proposals are voted, it's supposed to go from the softest, let's say, to the strictest, and let's find the majority. We also supported this on the Committee's budget, even though we think that the amendment to the Constitutional Legal Committee has more meaning in relation to the implementation, which, if it passes and there are those control mechanisms that I was talking about, that is, the abolition of retroactivity, the monitoring of people over IP addresses, and one central office that asks through the Bar, if these control mechanisms are there, then our proposal will also be put to the vote, which also allows domestic transactions to be dealt with over half a million, while foreign ones are without limit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have two factual points here. So I am the first to call on Mr Ondřej Veselý to prepare for a factual remark by Mr Jan Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u82	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry I'm doing one more de facto thing. I'm so sorry. He was an emotional act, Mr President, but you really don't know exactly what you're talking about. If a lawyer does what you say he does, he does normal crime and is prosecuted like any other person. He just can't do anything else. He can't commit a crime. That would be helping crime, anything. That's just not it. This is a fundamental principle of advocacy, and that is the confidentiality of the attorney and the trust of the client that the confidentiality will be maintained. The moment the client has to filter for himself what he can tell me as a lawyer, I won't have enough ground to do my job properly. Really don't confuse these two things. As far as the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee is concerned, I find that a compromise difficult for me to accept, but I take it. You're going overboard. That's why I can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u84	I would like to respond briefly through Mr President to the previous speaker. We need to see what information is provided. That's information about the client's control and the client's identification. There's no other information. And that information has to be kept by the attorney today. There's no obligation in that law to provide information about what the attorney and the client were talking about. There's no such thing. That's just a lie. And all this is about the fact that if a client's attorney is doing business for a client, he has to provide specific information about the business transactions. He has absolutely nothing to do with when a client comes to a lawyer and wants to talk about what he has or doesn't do what he is or isn't legal. That's two different things, and that law clearly defines it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, I'd like to read the apologies that have already been gathered here. So, Mr Radek Koten within 12 hours for business reasons. Mr Andrej Babiš, Prime Minister and Prime Minister, on Wednesday, 21 March, all day, for working reasons, on Thursday, 22 and Friday, on 23 March, on the grounds of the Council of Europe. So it follows that the Prime Minister will not be present for interpellation. Next, I have an apology for Mrs Markéta Adamová, on 21. 3. between 10.30 and 12 o'clock for work reasons. And the last Mr.František Elfmark on 21. 3rd to 23. 3. for family reasons. Now here I have - Mr Chvojka originally approached me - with priority rights? But now it's popping up on my screen. So you want to see Mr. Kalousek? The Minister has technical equipment, and then I have President Kalousek's due debate. Subsequently, President Chvojka. Now, Madam Secretary, de facto. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u86	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. I would just like to point out that if the procedure changes and Mr Benda's first amendment is voted, he does not provide - I will no longer argue that he allows information for the foreign tax administrator, for the Czech tax administrator, we have already said a lot on this subject, but in particular he does not ensure full implementation. He narrows international cooperation only to international cooperation on request. And international cooperation is more marginal in terms of requests for this cooperation, and it takes place more at the automatic level. So we will not ensure full implementation if Mr Benda's amendment is approved, among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u87	Thank you. And now I would ask President Miroslav Kalousek. Please, you have the floor in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u88	Thank you for the floor. Allow just a few comments on the debate that has taken place. The Minister said that the Government Legislative Council had doubts about the proportionality test, but the problem, according to the Minister, is removed by that limit of CZK 500,000, the narrow throat. I believe that is not the case. I believe that the Legislative Council, when having doubts about the proportionality test, did not consider the amount of resources, but considered whether the appropriate instrument, namely the tool for breaking the confidentiality law, is appropriate to the public interest, which is the collection of taxes, and found that this instrument is proportionate in the context of combating terrorism, is proportionate in the context of money laundering and organised crime, but is not proportionate to the normal domestic tax administration. This is the principle of territoriality - not absolute higher, but if the cannon is not on the sparrow. Here is the constitutional right of the citizen against each other on the one hand and the interest of the state. And only if the interest of the state has such a priority as combating terrorism will it stand up in the proportionality test and it can be done. In the opinion of many constitutional lawyers - and the Government's Legislative Council - it is not possible to do this for ordinary domestic tax administration, which I stress. This is, of course, also related to how, in my view, we have been misinformed by the Minister about how it is implemented everywhere in Europe. In Germany, France, and Spain - and now I have verified it - it is strictly limited to money laundering, i.e. to combating organised crime, not to the general administration of taxes. That's a different act. Madam Secretary, if any MP informs the House this way, he simply doesn't have the documents of his office, but if the House Minister reports that way, it's a sin. You're misleading her when you say that Germany and France are using this tool for normal domestic tax administration. It's not true. The appeal to the narrow throat of CZK 500,000 may look nice in the first place, but again. We're... You, we don't. You here want to break the constitutional law on the basis that the tax might not be paid. Well, the tax clerk will consider that up to CZK 600,000 could not be paid, he'll file a request to the chamber, the chamber has no way of saying no. It then turns out to be a complete crap, that it wasn't even ten crowns, let alone 600,000, that something like this didn't happen at all, but the break-in will happen. There's no instrument of considering that the chamber might say, "The reasoning is wrong," and I'm not going to give that information. Mr Michálek's amendment does not give her the opportunity. It opens up the possibility of absolute because: I think so and keep it a secret. That's what's terribly dangerous about it. And that often mentioned argument that when a tax authority from another state has the right to do so, even the domestic tax authority must have the right to do so, I would like to draw attention to one significant circumstance. Within the jurisdiction, within the framework of the case-law on international cooperation in the correct taxation, including this Directive, including Directive DAC 5, there is a possibility for a given State to refuse that information by reference to professional secrecy. Excuse me, dear German friends, dear French friends, the information you require is protected by professional secrecy in our country, we cannot publish. And we won't break anything. While this possibility does not exist in domestic tax administration, there is a possibility that we must count on it as an option - there is no defense against the possibility of a tax official. That's the big difference. All of this was considered by the Government Legislative Council, all of which was considered by the government when the Ministry of Finance rejected this wish, which is why it is not in the government's proposal. Madam Secretary, I am now modeling an example that has not yet happened to you because you have not defended the state budget in the Chamber of Deputies, which is very similar to the current situation, and I hope it will never happen to you. Imagine that in the government you will discuss the state budget, these are always very complicated and emotional discussions, the finance minister is basically alone against everyone, because every colleague wants significantly more than he can be given. Finally, the government will come to an agreement and submit a government draft state budget to the Chamber of Deputies. An arbitrary Member of us may raise an amendment to this draft state budget, pleasing-looking, that for the Ministry of Culture it is necessary to add 2 billion to the monuments, for the Ministry of Transport 2 billion to the roads, for the Ministry of the Interior 5 billion to the police. Well, any minister would want that, of course. None of them, however, can afford to support such a parliamentary amendment and fight for it publicly. He cannot and must not, because he may defend the government's proposal as a whole. Imagine that one of your colleagues will stand up to defend the state budget and say "I very much support Mr Kalousek's amendment to give you 10 billion more" - to say something almost unimaginable. Well, a minister like that needs to be called off and killed immediately because he's violating government's fundamental loyalty. Madam Secretary, I don't know if you realize that's exactly what you're doing right now. That here against the government's proposal, against the government's expert consideration based on the opinion of the Government's Legislative Council, you are opposed to your own government and you are trying to push us through something that Mr Michálek has put forward legitimately, but it was rejected in the government's expert debate. And you're making a mistake with the House that it's solved by the $500,000. No, that's a completely wrong argument! For this reason, I very much ask all those who really think about the adequacy of a given instrument for something as serious as breaking the state secret, so that a number of information from the Finance Minister is not considered relevant, because it was not relevant in both the Government's Legislative Council's consideration that it was solved by 500 thousand and references to some foreign experiences, so that it is perfectly logical that when it gets abroad, so that the domestic administration must have the right to the same information. It's not true. We have a chance to say no to this abroad if it breaks a secret. This possibility no longer exists for domestic administration. That's all I wanted to say except the sad news I'm sorry for. After the general debate before the vote, please take a break for the club meeting within 12 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u89	I thank the honourable Member for the speech and I have two factual points here. So, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Jakub Michálek, will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u90	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond to the repeated thesis that it was rejected by the Legislative Council of the Government. I would like to stress that the Legislative Council of the Government has assessed a completely different wording of the law than the constitutional committee proposes and on which we propose the amendment. So, given that they were judging another document, it's probably hard to take as an argument that they rejected it as unconstitutional in quotation marks. [[11.20 hours]] And second point. Mr Kalousek through Mr President, you will never tell. You say, the IRS makes up the 600,000, they come to the Bar Association, they have no choice but to pass it on. And you haven't finished what's going to happen. So what happens is that the attorney's gonna have to provide information about whether the client was doing some business or not. And I really don't see the damage to that client. While we absolutely agree that the hedge orders, as the Treasury is using them today, are a problem, I still don't see the damage that happens to the guy when the lawyer says you're unlucky, my client here doesn't have a $4 million deal, or how much it would do to create a leak like this at all, he didn't, and that's the end of the whole thing. I still can't see the damage to that person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u91	Thank you. And another in turn, with the factual remark of Mr Michálek, will be prepared by the Member and President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, although of course I am from a political party other than the Government movement YES, I would like to ask that the House of Deputies should be heard at the meeting of a 'killer of the Minister', even in relation to the Minister's support for an amendment to the opposition. After all, we have a valid rules of procedure that expect the government to express itself through a competent person who has been empowered to do so by the Government's resolution at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and it is a matter that the Rules of Procedure for the Government to express itself. If the legislator wanted the government to always oppose it, he wouldn't have put it there at all. So please, let's not manipulate and make arguments here that are completely pointless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read one more apology. Mr Klaus apologizes today from 12.45 to 17.00 due to his participation in the inauguration of the Rector of the Czech University of Agriculture. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have two minutes to make a point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u94	Thank you. I didn't tell the Minister, Mr. Chairman Michálek, I told the Minister and I looked at Metnar. I would never dare do that to the government. It was an exaggeration, of course. If she touched someone, I'm deeply sorry. First of all. Secondly, to Mr Ferjenčík. I thought I finished it. If it is possible to request this information on the basis of considerations and the Bar Association does not have the opportunity to refuse to provide this information, then it itself is a deep violation of the constitutional right of every client, every citizen. Because who cares?! It's really none of the tax administration's business! And I think we're very different here. I really don't think this information is supposed to be available to the general tax administration. We could get a confessional secret tomorrow. Have you been drinking, boy slivovitz? And she's been knocked out? Has it paid excise duty? About ten Hail Maria for penance, and the vicar also writes filing to the tax office, because it is simply protected by secrecy, but the tax administration is entitled to all information. Not really, let's not go that way!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u95	Thank you for the show. And I have here the last application for a general debate at this time, so President Jan Chvojka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I think it's basically all that's been said, I can't add any more. Basically, we all know, or we should all know, that attorney-client privilege is a legal obligation imposed on a lawyer to remain silent. It is traditionally considered to be one of the main institutes of so-called professional secrecy, which means, in addition to the state-appointed secret, for example, a medical or state-accepted spiritual secret. At the same time, this confidentiality is considered one of the essential, one of the key obligations of a lawyer in connection with the provision of legal services. Anyone who has studied the law school or conducted the practice of a legal associate knows that legal secrecy is a fundamental institute of the rule of law. It can therefore generally be regarded as an essential tool for protecting persons, both natural and legal, against unauthorized use of information relating to them. The constitutional basis of this institute can be found, for example, in the provisions of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, as well as in international documents that are binding on the Czech Republic. I understand the need for a new tax system, the need to collect taxes and to improve the tax collection process in a certain way, but I consider this obligation proposed by colleagues from the Pirates to be an attack essentially against the rule of law, because legal secrecy is one of the fundamental institutions of the rule of law. I just want to say what it will mean for clients and lawyers in practice. Because, if the proposal is accepted, and I believe that common sense will prevail, of course, apart from the substantial and fundamental liquidation of attorney's confidentiality, another considerable, unwanted one I hope will also bring a paradox. We, on the one hand, and now I don't just mean the government, but in general, we all, I mean as politicians, fight or we want to fight against the grey economy, for example, the one regarding the provision of legal services, the so-called winemaking. At the same time, part of a particular political representation creates a platform for the grey service zone, including legal ones, regardless of whether the existing client of a lawyer or tax advisor or notary thinks that he or she is prepared or implemented the legal procedure is or is not in accordance with the law. And he usually doesn't even think about it that way, because that's why he's got the lawyer, and he's gonna know how things are, and he's already got the legal certainty. And after the first case, after the first case, ladies and gentlemen, when the attorney will be forced to turn in his client, this client and the others will rather resort to illegality, to the grey zone. Because it will no longer be the lawyer who is regulated by the law on attorneys, by strict state regulations that tells the client: Dear clients, what you want from me is beyond the point of view. So you guys are chasing people into the gray zone and into illegality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u97	I thank the honourable Member and I am still interested in the Minister's speech, so with priority rights. So please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I will respond to President Kalousek. Briefly, on a case-by-case basis. Escapes over half a million crowns are a felony, or they create suspicions of a crime. So it's not a routine tax administration. And the Government's Legislative Council, when she was discussing the proposal, and I was there, she had no narrow throat. She had nothing to compare it to. It was open, without restrictions, for all proceedings for the domestic tax administrator. Today the rule is clearly set and changes the conditions of the game completely. Unlike you, Mr President, I have quoted the French amendment, the German amendment, I have other amendments here, Spanish, in the meantime I have found that it has not yet been implemented. So I quoted from these sources. So I don't know what you're getting at. You were talking about the possibility of refusing information. Yes, it does exist, but it only concerns the part of secrecy that is unbreakable, and it has fallen from my mouth several times today. Thus, it concerns fundamentally legal aid. [[11.30 hours]] And one more thing. Mr Michálek's amendment did not go through proper discussions at the LRV, it did not go through, it was not logically part of this proposal. So by this logic that you accuse me of supporting this parliamentary proposal, and I will always support the parliamentary proposal, which I will be convinced of, and I will not care whether it is from the wing of the opposition or the government - I would not be able to support by this logic any amendment that has not been approved by the Legislative Council of the Government and subsequently by the Government. This means that I could not support, for example, the constitutional committee and other proposals. I couldn't actually do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u99	Thank you, Minister. I'll read two apologies. So the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček apologizes from 12 to 14 o'clock, and Mr Jan Farský apologises from now on to 12.15 for working reasons. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have a point of order. Two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u100	Thank you, I'll be shorter, I'll only answer that limit of 500,000. Madam Secretary, crime is a bunch. There's a lot of them. But only a few crimes pose such a social threat, and the struggle with them constitutes such a public interest that it justifies intervention in constitutional rights. And tax evasion of CZK 500,000 isn't really one of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, therefore, I do not see anyone either on a factual point or on a general debate. I ask President Kalousek again if he insists on a break within 12 hours. [[It does.]] So if no one else is reporting, I will end the debate. I therefore declare a break within 12 hours for the TOP 09 meeting and then, if necessary, the final words of the appellant and the two rapporteurs, and then we would proceed to the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. The time for a break has passed, so we have a procedure proposal... [[He's waiting a while.]] The debate has been closed, if I understand correctly. I'm asking if there's still an interest in the final words. No. Neither is Madam Secretary. We will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I will ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present individual proposals and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Of course, I will always ask the Minister for an opinion. We have a guarantee committee proposal, and there's an alternative procedure proposal. All right, rapporteur, let's get started.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u103	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I won't keep you from reading the resolution, you all have it in front of you. Before we take a substantive vote, I would like to ask for your comments by voting on the elimination of the amendment letter. D, Mr Kalousek, who here indicated that he wanted to exclude this item from the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u104	Okay. I'm gonna check you all out and ask you for a new registration. [[Member Free: Proposition, yes.]] And since the third reading on the withdrawal of the amendment must... on the admissibility of withdrawal to vote by the House, we will actually take the first audit vote on this matter - on the proposal to withdraw the amendment by Miroslav Kalousek under the letter. D. We will be voting in the 110 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of withdrawing this proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 110 from 161 Members present for 159, against no one. This proposal was therefore withdrawn. We will now proceed with the proposal and decide on the procedure. Mr rapporteur, suggest a procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u105	There. The procedure approved by the Committee on Budgets means that legislative adjustments would be voted on. Consequently, point A, which is the Constitutional Committee. On point E2, this is Mr Michálek's amendment. Then about point B - Mr. Vojtěch Munzar. Point C - Mr. Benda. And Mr. Kalousek has been eliminated. So this was the procedure approved by the Committee on Budgets. I have here a counterproposal to make an amendment under the letter. c pan Marek Benda voted first. It is a counter-proposal, which is why I propose to vote on this counterproposal as a first point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u106	Okay. Mr Miroslav Kalousek is claiming priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u107	I apologise to my committee for disloyalty, indeed the Committee on Budgets has approved this procedure, but I would like to ask you once again, it will be completely pure and fair, although we all know how it will turn out, whether it could be referred to Mr Stanjura or Mr Benda's C-point - first of all. And two. Mr Michálek's amendment is an amendment to the constitutionally-legal committee. And I simply cannot rid myself of the impression that the right vote is first to vote on the amendment to the amendment and then to approve either the amendment in the sense of the amendment or without it, because the amendment to the Constitutional Legislative Committee is not a draft. So I am giving an alternative proposal that we first vote on Mr Benda's point C. Then, on the amendment to Mr Michálek's amendment, and then on the amendment to the Constitutional Committee, either in the sense of the amendment adopted or without it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u108	Okay. The rapporteur, what does he say? I see it as an alternative to a procedure that we should vote third.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u109	I would also like to ask your colleague Kalousek if he meant that I should vote on the amendment, where we will put point C and point E as one vote or separately. [[Voices from the diaper: especially. Vice-President Philip: There is no other way.]] Okay. We therefore know the procedure of the Committee on Budgets, which is why I am opening the vote -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u110	No. First, we have to decide on an alternative to voting, procedures. So we either have to approve the alternative, and we will act on it, or we will not approve, and we will act individually. Because Miroslav Kalousek's proposal, as I understand it, is an alternative to the alternative design of the procedure. So there is nothing left to do but vote on the proposal made by Miroslav Kalousek first. If it is not approved, we will vote on Marek Benda's alternative proposal. And if it's not approved, we'll vote according to the original procedure. Do we all understand each other? Because it's not a different structure... we can't even demand. So if you have no objection to the President's procedure, we will first vote on the alternative proposal by Miroslav Kalousek on the alternative proposal for the procedure. Yes? That's the first attempt to approve the procedure. Do we understand each other well?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u111	Mr President, if you would let me finish, that is exactly what I wanted to say. I said that--
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u112	I believe you, Mr rapporteur, but I wanted to clarify this out loud for all of us, so that we understand this well. Okay? So now we are voting on the alternative that Mr Miroslav Kalousek gave. I have begun voting number 111 and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 111 out of 165 for 83, against 60. The motion was accepted. So we'll do it this way. This means that we will first vote on proposal C and then on the amendment. So do we all understand each other, Mr rapporteur? Yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u113	Okay. If this change in procedure is approved, then I am taking the vote on point C, which is Mr Marek Benda's amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u114	No, first legislatively technical, if it's there. It's there, it contains a legislative technical proposal, so it's the first one. Yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u115	Okay. In that case, I am voting on legislative regulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u116	Yeah, okay. Voting 112 on legislative technical adaptations. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 112, from 167 for 167. It's been approved. So we're going to point C.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u117	So I am voting on Mr Marek Benda's amendment, point C. The committee's opinion on this amendment - the committee has not adopted any position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u118	Madam Secretary? [[Opinion disagreeable.]] I've started voting number 113 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 113, from the present 167 for 66, against 72. The motion was not accepted. Then we're done. Now, then, the second step.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u119	Then would I suggest voting on point E2? [[- Yes. B2. - E2. E2.]] Because it was part of Mr Kalousek's amendment, which you voted for. That means we are voting on the E2 amendment by Mr Jakub Michálek. The Committee on Budgets recommends adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u120	Okay. Madam Secretary? [[Opinion in favour.]] I've started voting number 114 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 114, out of 147 present for 51, against 70. The motion was not accepted. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u121	Furthermore, I would continue under the current procedure, which means that we would vote on the amendment under letter A, which is a set of amendments to the constitutionally legal committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u122	Okay. Opinion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u123	The Committee adopted a recommendation opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u124	Madam Secretary? [[Opinion in favour.]] I've started voting number 115 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 115, from 167 for 167. The motion was accepted. We can move on, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u125	We have one last voteable amendment left under letter B. It is Mr Vojtěch Munzar's amendment. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u126	Madam Secretary? [[Opinion disagreeable.]] We're going to decide in the 116 vote that I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 116, from the present 167 for 54, against 85. The motion was not accepted. Have we exhausted all the amendments, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u127	Yes, it's true. That is why I am voting on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-002-049.u128	Yes. I'll check you all out again. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. In the meantime, I shall read the motion for a resolution. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 280/2009 Coll., Tax Code, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 47, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." We will decide in the vote number 117, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 117, from 165 in favour of 125, against 16. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you, Minister, thank you, rapporteur, and I finish point 49. According to the approved agenda, we return to the first reading and there is a point ahead
