ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-021-01-001-001.u1	1. 100th Anniversary of the 1st Session of the Revolutionary National Assembly We meet here on the occasion of the commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the 1st meeting of the Revolutionary National Assembly. And now let me welcome the President of the National Council of the Slovak Republic, Mr Andrej Danek, among us. I'll ask you to stand up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-021-01-001-001.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the national anthems will now sound. Please rise. [[Everyone in the hall rises, the Czech anthem sounds and then the Slovak anthem, the present one joins in singing.]] Thank you. I ask the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-021-01-001-001.u3	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm sorry he's not clapping for the anthems. Maybe we could clap and we could work it out and do it again sometime. And another hundred years. Mr President of the National Council of the Slovak Republic, honourable Members, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the famous House. This year there was already a celebration of our special anniversary, a hundred years of modern independent Czechoslovak state. Many have been said. In March, the President of the House of Representatives of the United States, Paul Ryan, spoke here and reminded us of the important role played by the United States of America and President Woodrow Wilson in the fight against our nation for self-determination. And seventeen days ago during the festive point of the meeting The Chamber of Deputies has spoken to representatives of the various Members' clubs, to whom I would like to thank additionally for their contributions, in which almost everything essential about the fundamental principles and direction of our country has been said. For this reason, I would also consider my speech more as a reminder of an extraordinary historical event that took place in the same place where we are meeting today. This festive meeting is a little different, weird, so much more ours. I'd say she's such a maid when we're the lower chamber. I hope you will also enjoy the little gifts that we have prepared on the bench during the lunch break. The original commemorative sheet and the copy from the book The House of Famous, where you can read more about the historical events that took place in these scenes. On this day, exactly a hundred years ago, at 10.40 hours, three days after the signing of the truce over the trenches of World War I, fifteen days after the Martin Declaration of Slovaks and 17 days after the announcement of the Czechoslovak Republic, the Czech and Slovak national idea was fulfilled. The pursuit of sovereign freedom, after freedom, not only negative, i.e. independence and independence, but the power to take control of fate and lay the foundations of our parliamentary democracy. Even then, a hundred years ago, just like today, as you may have noticed, Members walked through the honorary guard of the falcon into this same historic hall. And now I'm literally quoting from period material. "In the meeting hall of the ancient House of the Kingdom of the Czech Republic there was a warehouse and a commission of the Earth Committee. There were potatoes and hail on the ground, sacks of flour on the side of the seats. The air was saturated with the smell of potatoes and the smell of flour products. There was a bag of hailstones on the chair table. We have ordered that the meeting room be immediately set in order, which the present servants happily promised." So, ladies and gentlemen, all you have to do is look around and look at your neighbors, and you can appreciate what we've done in a hundred years from the sacks of flour in this House. [[Fun in the hall.]] Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, who was still abroad at the time, was elected president. And so it is of historical interest that there was no vote on the president at all, for after the proposal of his name was made, everyone rose up with a loud long-standing applause and a cry "Glory, long live!" There's been a choice. The Government and the President of the National Assembly have been confirmed. On the first anniversary of November 14, 1919, here in the House, President Masaryk gave his consideration, which I would like to quote on this whole occasion. "Our revolution had a strange feeling. The border consisted of thoughtful and diligent propaganda and diplomatic work; In addition, we organized an army and joined the Warriors of the Allies, from whom we were recognized as a regular war power. At home we worked with our party without bloodshed, although Habsburg Austria brutally hung our people, shot and suppressed everything. [[14.40 hours]] It is certainly a strange revolution - a revolution after the reproach of work and precisely democratic in the best sense of the word; And this revolution has given us victory. A great victory. It has often been said that states endure what they create. Our Republic has been formed by regular fighting in the field and work and our Republic will be able to maintain its work; the fight, I hope, will no longer be necessary. We have survived in relative calm for one year; Physiologists tell us that the first year of human life is decisive for the individual's duration. Perhaps we can also use analogy for our country. Of course, it is our job to not only keep our republic very thoughtful, but to build it perfectly. Now we have our own state and it requires a sense of responsibility and world view, we need a state sense, a positive sense of state." So many nearly a hundred-year-old words from the founder's president. Next you can read on the memorial board at the House building: In this memorable building of the Czech Kingdom Council, the revolutionary revolution of the anti-Austrian House was perfected and the restored state of Czechoslovakia was built. Karel Kramář said that the Habsburg-Lothrin dynasty had lost its right to the Czech throne and the new state was a free Czechoslovak republic. I'm sure our journey to freedom wasn't easy. Of those hundred years, we lived almost half of it in servitude, totalitarianism, and almost a quarter of it in occupation. That is why our first meeting of 1918 was mentioned only in ten years, in 1928, and then in the ceremonial meeting, which created our parliamentary federal system and the Czech and Slovak National Council, so this meeting is in its own way historic and it is good to look back and remind us how many trips we have already travelled. Let me quote once again the very important person of that time, Karel Kramář, who said on the day of the setting-up meeting: "When the history of our nation is written about the last four years, the world will wonder how great but hidden heroism there has been, how much determination to help Czech things, perhaps it should be life, and then we will say that we have truly earned our freedom, that we have been at home and abroad in great time worthy of our past, of their great ancestors, who have so joyfully sacrificed their lives for their faith, our beliefs and our language." It is great that today we are living the 29th year of renewed freedom and democracy. I am very pleased that we, Čech and Slovák, as friends, can work together not only among ourselves but also in the Visegrad Group, we can support ourselves in creating our good position in Europe and form an interest coalition for the benefit of our citizens and for the benefit of the European whole. In conclusion, I can only repeat in Masrykovsky: "The world stood and stood on the job, not on the mood. The world is kept only by work, and by work small, by work constant." I thank you on this special occasion for your attention and give the floor to our special guest and dare say to my friend, President of the National Council of the Slovak Republic, Mr Andrea Danko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-021-01-001-001.u4	Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-021-01-001-001.u5	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic Radek Vondráček, ladies and gentlemen, honored protocol guests, but above all dear brothers Čech, Moravan and Slezan. It is an honor and full of emotion that I can warmly greet you on behalf of the National Council of the Slovak Republic. Thank you for this extraordinary tribute you gave to the Slovak nation that I can speak on the Czech Parliament. I realise that such an option is provided by the Parliament of the Czech Republic very rarely. Many nations wonder what excellent relationships we have. I think that these relationships are really honest, natural, and that is why they are above standard. But they were not born lightly. We've been through a really hard trip. Čech, Moravan, Slezan and Slovák are special people. We have something to be proud of. For centuries, we have been able to stand together for better and for worse. Nothing broke us. The bad experience of Čech with Germanization and Slovák with Hungarianization resulted in the establishment of our common state in 1918. This shared experience created a strong state union from Czechoslovakia. He was a model in the parliamentary democracy period then. In 1992, it was time to break up. As the only nations in Europe, we have done this peacefully, calmly and with honor, while remaining friends. We have matured as nations, and today, side by side, we show that we can manage our states. A hundred years ago, there was a Revolutionary National Assembly in these places. It was a political body born in the Czechoslovak Republic. The Czechoslovak symbolism was confirmed by the election of the first president. Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk had Czech blood in his veins from his mother and Slovak blood from his father. Probably his origins meant him to be the right first Czechoslovak president. In his person, wisdom, balance sheet, um, humility, diligence, and with it he managed the Czechoslovak Republic, I would say the best qualities of our nations. The exceptionalness of this place is confirmed by the election of František Tomášek as the first president of the National Assembly. It was in this building that the history of Czechoslovak parliamentarianism began to be written. The cooperation of our nations has gained a new dimension in the Czechoslovak state. However, our shared consciousness and relations have been shaped for centuries before. The bond between our nations was formed before 1918, and this became an important spiritual pillar of our common state. We formed the first alliances in the seventh century in the Reich of Sam. The Great Moravia period was linked politically and culturally by Slovakia, Moravia and Bohemia. The legacy of svatý Cyril and svatý Metoděj marked significantly the direction of both nations throughout the millennium. It's our common legacy. The Czech Kingdom was the centre of European culture and the cradle of education in the Middle Ages. The proof of this is also your famous Charles University, which is also currently a prestigious European university. In many periods of European history, the Čech were precisely the driving force behind reforms. We must not forget mistr Jan Hus, who has become a symbol of visions of freedom, brotherhood and equality. Even today we can learn and follow his humanistic legacy: Seek the truth, speak the truth, hear the truth, learn the truth, love the truth, defend the truth until your death. [[14.50 hours]] Many other personalities of our national history, whether Ján Jessenius, Jiří Třanovskýý or Jan Amos Komenský, have honestly joined the Czech and Slovak world with their actions. They remind us of the strength of an individual whose faith and determination can change great things. Today is the time to show our respect and thanks for bringing our nations closer together. At a recent joint meeting in Moravian Kroměříž we remembered the 170th session of the Austrian Reichstag. It is on it the Czech patriot František Palacký to present for the first time the possibility of coexistence between Čech and Slovák within the federalized monarchy. It is one of the first visionary attempts to draw the coexistence of free European nations. And I cannot forget the milestone of Slovak-Czech modern-day relations, which is primarily the revolutionary year 1848. Right here, in beautiful Prague, they found refuge Ľudovít Štúr, Hurban and Hodža. A memorable Slavic convention took place in Stůžáté, becoming a fundamental political platform for the liberation of Slavic nations from the Habsburg monarchy. We are also grateful for Bedřich Bloudek, Bernard Janeček and František Zach. These brave Czech and Moravian commanders helped us and fought at the head of Slovak volunteers under the pledge of the first Slovak National Council. For centuries, we've lived next to each other, but not in a common state unit. Čech resisted German cultural pressure, Slovák resisted Hungarian pressure. The common interest in protecting their own language and culture naturally brought the two nations closer together. Our mutual brotherly relationships have always been built on linguistic, cultural and ethnic proximity. We created the first common Czechoslovak border only when we needed mutual help. The republic was for the Slovák and Čech a deliverance from the prison of the nations, which really became Austria-Hungary. The Čech restored the glory of their former statehood and the Slovák took a free breath for centuries. It was not an easy period of coexistence between Čech and Slovák mainly with strong national minorities. After Munich's betrayal, our nations experienced difficult times. Čech faced Nazi oppression in the Protectorate, Slovakia resisted chauvinism. The first Republic was in ruins, but the idea of Czech-Slovak reciprocity was not. The desire of Slovák and Čech for freedom symbolizes the joint heroic act of Jozef Gabčík and Jan Kubiš. The assassination of the Reich Protector was a hard blow to Nazi Germany. Although the powers have artificially divided us, our nations have also collaborated abroad in this difficult fascist period. The rejection of the fascist regime and the desire for a new quality of mutual relations were expressed by the Slovák in the Slovak National Uprising, the Čech declared their will for national freedom in an armed performance in May 1945. There was a new hope for the Czechs and Slovaks. The year 1948 and then the political processes of the 1950s eclipsed the dawn of the second republic. But they were another test for both nations. They say what doesn't kill you makes you stronger. Our moral strength manifested itself during the Prague Spring in 1968. The revival process showed the friendly and democratic face of both Čech and Slovák. Back then, the whole world was genuinely supporting us. Although the reform process was silenced by Warsaw Treaty tanks, the hope of a better and more free life continued during the period of standardisation. 1968 brought us a new state-law arrangement and a new quality of coexistence of our nations. Jaroslav Seifert, the Nobelův Prize winner, guided his surrealist creation with hope for citizens among others. I was born Slovák in Czechoslovakia and I am proud of it. Eighteen years, and today again, I sang the Czechoslovak anthem and I always feel touched when I hear the sounds of the beautiful Czech anthem of Josef Kajetán Tyl. I know what it's like to watch bilingual federal news. I like excellent Jaroslav Dietl series, a bunch of great Czech artists who have enriched our Slovak culture. All of this and many others have affected our lives. Culture and sport were our pride. Compared to other nations, we have a unique advantage that we can perceive each other in depth and without barriers to our languages. Slovák like to listen and perceive Czech for its beautiful color and relaxation. I would like us not to interrupt a common linguistic relationship, so that our children can reason with each other without an interpreter as a brother and brother. This is very important for the future of our relations. Although the Czechoslovak nation was not born, as I said, in Martina, there was an amazing Czech-Slovak and Slovak-Czech marriage, friendship to life and death. The Czech Republic has become the home of many Slovák. We appreciate the generosity of the Czech nation and the respect you show us. We believe that Czech citizens in Slovakia feel just as well. In 1989, I perceived the atmosphere of a nationwide awakening. The strong emotions, the desire for freedom have been positive for all of us. Anyone who experienced the atmosphere in 1989 can't forget it. We felt like nothing was going to limit us anymore. I'll always remember protest songs in the squares. Like many Slovák, I have learned the texts of Karel Kryl, which really contain strong messages. Our journey split 25 years ago. But there remained a common goal, common values, mutual respect, and sincere friendships. After the division of the common state, we met again in the common European house. We are members of the European Union, which we see as a grouping of sovereign national states. Before the forthcoming elections to the European Parliament, let us show the rest of Europe how united we are. I am glad that even in the political V4 format, Czechoslovakia is a dynamic element. We're accepted partners. I look forward to tomorrow's V4 meeting with France and Germany, which was also helped by the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček. Let us name the problems that are really bothering us openly and truthfully. What's bothering us today? It is the ferocity of transnational capital, the lower wages of our people, the weaker social protection. Our countries are not in the same position in the labour market within the European Union. We need stability in political systems, transparent electoral codes. These are questions that we need to address in order to strengthen statehood. But do not be afraid to protect national interests as well. The European Union needs reform. In relation to the European Union, we need to open other topics. We have a problem with the trade chain that destroys our foodmen and farmers. Let us fight for the right of our citizens to have the same quality food at equally affordable prices. Here, too, I must thank my Czech colleagues again for standing by us in the fight for the same quality of food. [[15.00 hours]] We must speak openly and responsibly about the reform of the European Union, the issue of common defence, security. At the same time, we must be able to name the problems we see in Central European optics. Let us therefore try to strengthen the parliamentary dimension of European Union policy. We want to show the European partners that we are interested in a strong but reformed Union. And she's got to deal with things other than time-shifting. The European Union's duty is to deal with strategic issues. For example, the protection of the digital world or the introduction of digital taxes. Let us look and ask large multinational companies what they do with our citizens' data. Let's ask Googl, Facebook, how protected our citizen is. We are witnessing a heartless digital world. Today, the virtual world has a strong influence on consumers' habits, interfering in public life in an unbearable way. The digital world has been created by us and is meant to serve us, not destroy our relationships and families. These topics are intended to be developed by the new European Parliament in the nearest term of office. These are new challenges on which we must work together. Let us also talk about European security, the European army. We're doing this to preserve our own state. The European Union is not a merger of states. The European Union project is unique, but it must also preserve national identity. We are leaning on our historical experience. If Austria-Hungary had gone beyond its shadow and provided freedom for our nations, it might have survived in the form of a European Union today. Let the brexit be a raised finger for us. Let us not even allow Schengen to be threatened. Slovák and Čech are now bilancing for a hundred years of cohabitation. We went through a difficult road and faced multiple crises and attacks together. We have exceptional experience in building a common state. However, I consider it most important that we have won each other. We often forget the good name and quality of our products and the Asian markets. We've got a lot to follow up on. Let's think about joint activities in diplomacy and in business. The cooperation of the founders of the common Czechoslovak Republic Štefánik and Masaryk is a reference to our nations and to our day. Let's walk together together side by side and remember that even though everyone in our house is our closest neighbor. I often say that we live in a fast and heartless time, a time full of anger, when we cease to perceive content and read only the headlines of articles, only the evil emotions perceived by the media. I'm bohužel so. But we are two successful and confident nations. But in the pursuit of success today, let us never forget humanity. As your great Jan Werich would say: "The whole secret and perhaps the only recipe for happiness is to love people and love them. He who thinks only of himself shall be deprived of others, shall be deprived of others, and shall perish." I wish the Czech Republic stability and prosperity. Honestly, we're glad to have you. Listen, show respect, avoid conflict. And in conclusion, let me be a little personal. I felt a strong emotion in singing your anthem, and I allow myself to express it in three magic words that are always important in a person's life, so they taught me at home. The words are thank you, I'm sorry and please. Thank you, beloved Čech, for enriching our society, culture, art, our hearts and for always standing with us for better and for worse. Forgive us if we Slovák have ever violently expressed our desire for our state. And please stay who you are. Stay a good, humble, hardworking nation. Please, dear Čech, just stay with our brothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-14-ps2017-021-01-001-001.u6	I thank the President of the National Council of the Slovak Republic, Mr Andrea Danko, and the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, because we have exhausted the programme of our 21st meeting, I am ending the meeting. I remind you that the 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will continue in a few minutes. I suppose we just need five minutes for a short break. Thank you. [[Members object that this is too short a time.]] Oh, so I have information that ten. Then at 15.15, we'll begin the suspended 20th meeting.
