ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u1	16. Proposal by Members Věra Kovářová, Petr Gazdík, Jan Farský, Vít Rakušan and Jana Krutáková to issue a law amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended / House print 140/ - second reading We launched this item on Wednesday 4 October 2018 at the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted it and adjourned it until the next proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies by resolution 355. I would remind you that, at first reading, we ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee and that its resolution was delivered as House Press 140/2. I ask that they take the seats at the rapporteur's table, which they have taken up, for the draftsman, Mrs Věra Kovářová, and for the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mr Jan Hrnčíř, who is also in his seat. We will now continue the interrupted municipal debate, and I am asking if anyone is registered. You have been signed up in a broken general debate, so you have the floor. Mrs. Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, let me just remind you once again of the history of that amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, the House press 140. History was as follows. About two years ago, representatives of the two largest regions, Prague and Central Bohemia, came to me and started to talk to me about the financing of public transport, with financial claims being raised over the years for the regions and municipalities to public transport, and measures such as government regulations on increasing the salary of drivers, which I do not question. She brought a series of extra millions for the county. The increase in minimum wage also increases public transport expenditure. They also talked about the possibility of reducing VAT to public transport fares from 15 to 10 percent by one of the steps that could reduce these costs. I'm just saying, this rate is the eighth highest...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u3	I will ask you to remain calm in the hall, because the Member cannot express herself. So I ask that whoever is discussing something other than the point we have on the agenda to discuss his things in the foyer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u4	Thank you. So we talked about the fact that it would be good to reduce the VAT rate to public transport fares from 15 to 10 percent. This rate is the eighth highest in Europe. They said that it would be a way in the right direction to help public transport, with negotiations being launched for so-called 'public transport'. a memorandum in bus transport. Something similar to what already works in rail transport, i.e. a contract between the state and the regions on the public transport contribution. It's currently on the railroad. There has been talk of buses, of course, that these negotiations are likely to take many years and this would be a kind of first, rather rapid signal. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] This proposal has already been discussed in the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgets has given its consent. During the last hearing, the discussion of this press was interrupted on Mrs Mračková's proposal, stating that there is no position of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, and expressing the opinion that she presented as an opinion of the Association of Regions. This morning, she accused me of lying, that the position of the Union of Cities and Cities was available. I merely note that this opinion of the Union of Towns and Municipalities on the draft amendment was delivered to the Ministry of Finance on 19 September, and allow me to quote from this opinion: "The Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic has a neutral, perhaps slightly positive opinion on this proposal, because we believe that this measure will reduce costs for cities and municipalities in providing transport services to residents." I would therefore ask Mrs Mračková, through Mr President, if she could apologise to me for accusing me of lying. [[13.00 hours]] I have also raised the position of the Association of Regions, and I have not yet received this, which is surprisingly, because our law was passed in April of this year, and it is surprising that the Union of Towns and Municipalities was able to comment on this proposal, whereas the Association of Regions did not. I informed Mr. Chairman Lukl of the Union of Towns and Municipalities about the current state of affairs of this law. At the same time, I thanked him for his understanding and for his position on my bill, and I do not yet know that there should be any change. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the absence of some opinions is merely a misunderstanding that we will be able to discuss the matter alone in this press. And the question is when else do we lower VAT than at a time when the economy is going well and when we can support public transport. That is why I am asking you to support the release of this law by the third reading. At the same time, I would like to conclude by saying that there were some errors in our proposal at the beginning, so I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance and the Minister for cooperating in eliminating these defects in the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u5	Thank you, too. Good afternoon, honourable Members. Let's keep going. Mrs Mračková is enrolled in the general debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on Parliament's press 140, which is the VAT Act on public transport fares. At the outset, I would first like to comment on what Mrs Kovářová said here by your means. There's no way I'm here today, Mrs. Kovářová. I didn't say you weren't telling the truth. I'm not gonna say the word lies. Of course, the fact that you said that you didn't get any answers from the County Association worried me very much, especially because I told my office director, based on your request, how we're going to proceed. At this point, I'm really sorry that if you received an application from the Association of Regions on October 29, when you wrote your request on October 26, four days later, you wouldn't be sharing it with the Members. The answer was conceived, what I said here this morning, that the captains will meet on November 9 and communicate this issue and will surely present their appearance to you immediately after this meeting. I am convinced that the output from the Association of Regions will be negative, but I cannot speak only for myself, even if there are other captains here, like Jirka Běhounek and others. So maybe they'll turn themselves in with their facts and tell us how they see it. At the same time, you said here that the Union of Towns and Municipalities gave a positive opinion. But it is not true, Mrs Kovářová, through Mr President! I have the position here, and I will hand it over to all the Presidents of the MPs, and I will quote it. It is from 25 October, it has been sent to us, I suppose you too, and it is in it - I quote: We would like to inform you, on the basis of your inquiry of 17 October, of the opinion of the Union of Cities and Communities on the House of Press 140. I'm not getting any more divorcing. The Union of Towns and Municipalities is not entirely convinced that the effects of the House's 140 press are entirely positive for the budgets of cities and municipalities, or regional authorities, as this would result in a government budget deficit of 930 million. CZK, which represents a deficit of CZK 219 million for cities and municipalities within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. CZK due to a reduction in the collection of value added tax. So, Madame, I will then allow you to pass on the position of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. It is an opinion that has arrived and has been sent on 25 October. And at the very end, I would like to take my view from the point of view of regional self-government. Please, I'm surprised someone here will make this kind of law. Because this law will, above all, have an impact on the budgets of cities, municipalities and regions. This means that they will lose funds under tax revenue. And if anyone foolishly thinks there's going to be a price reduction on tickets, there's no way that's gonna happen. If you think they're gonna get the money under that VAT bill to the driver, they're not gonna get it. And if we are talking here about the fact that of course there has been an increase in the wages of drivers, then the regions are all struggling with this, and within the framework of the regulation, they will always talk to individual carriers and make additions to those contracts and this will reflect the increase in the wages of drivers. So it really amazes me that this proposal is here because I think a 75 percent discount for students and pensioners has been introduced, which is what the citizens feel very positive about. I am having fun with a number of seniors, and they are very happy to be able to travel for this reduced fare. And the very last, most important thing is that the regions order transport in the framework of so-called transport carriers. a public service obligation. And if it doesn't cover the value, they're paying for it. So I'm really wondering why this bill is here. And I would hate to make it look like that, because I hear that it is presented in this way, that it is simply against the fact that it is simply being presented by Mrs Kovářová. I'm convinced it's just not gonna bring anything. There's no way a citizen will feel that he has a reduced fare. So at this point, I'm proposing that this bill be rejected, and it will be discussed before the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u7	Thank you for the suggestion. It will indeed be voted before the vote at the third reading. And now, please, Mr Juránek, who is in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u8	Mr President, colleagues, I have now actually wondered whether I should enter into this dispute because there are very many emotions. But I'm going to try to take it from the top of my head, because it's traffic in the first place in the regions. And that is the important thing, that there really is a very important position here in the regions and not in the municipalities, because the burden of transport matters is borne by the regions. [[13.10 hours]] However, the calculations that are here forget one thing, and that is the thing that really the regions by decision of the state have suffered a great loss, financial. And so I would like to use this law, which is presented here, to look for this compensation for the regions, even through this law, because the decisions taken at the level of the whole state, which are given by the decision of the government at the moment, have a major impact on budgets in the regions. And I've got some calculations here as to how much impact it has. However, I think this would be the right part to find a way to compensate the regions themselves. And here I am convinced of one thing. If a decision is made at city level, let the city bear the weight of the decision. If a decision is made at the level of the county, let the country bear the weight of the decision. If a decision is made at state level, let the decision be taken first by the region (?). And I do not prevent public budgets from working together on this, but not to put the whole burden on the decision to be taken, e.g. as far as ticket discounts are concerned, so that the whole weight is borne by the regions. And I'm here at the moment to actually look for the road in favor of the regions. I accept, of course, that there is the Association of Regions, that there are the captains here, I'm following the situation. We are a large region - here I would only correct through the President Mrs Kovářová, the Central Bohemia Region and Prague are not the two largest regions, Central Bohemia is the largest, but Prague is in fourth place, so that the Moravian-Silesian Region and South Moravia are not forgotten, so here I have only such a request, but so that it is not forgotten, but this is a small thing now. But I just want to say that, especially in the South Moravian region, the impact is large and insignificant, and it means a really big mark in the budget. Of course, it also depends on how the regions have set up contracts, public contracts for those carriers that are there. It's not easy to deal with, because those contracts are set up for a long time. Thus, if we are as a region in the way that the treaties in some parts of the South Moravian Region end, the treaty will be made much easier than for someone who has recently made a ten - year contract. So what I'm saying here is that it's going to have a different impact on different regions depending on how they're able to set up contracts at this point with suppliers who drive them. However, at this point, I do not want to give any instructions on how the regions can be helped. On the other hand, it must be said that we have, under each law, a decision that has been made in the past, an indication of how much each decision affects the budgets of the regions and municipalities. And I would very much like to say, at times, in the context of an interpelling or any other mechanism, how much impact it has on the budgets of the regions and municipalities of the government's decisions, and please take this matter into account here and, perhaps, take it into account when approving the budget and looking for these paths in favour of the regions. I think because I am now trying to turn this debate into a solution to the problem itself, not to the substance of the law that is here at the moment. And I would very much like us to take this very seriously. Because if I marry, the county doesn't have much authority. But one of the great powers that the regions have, and I would say that after education it is the second largest, so it is the question of transport and in it the part of transport service. So here I'm trying to direct the whole thing to take advantage of the fact that we're talking about a bill that wants to help us in some way in this matter so that the transport matter doesn't fall out as the important thing that the regions are taking care of and which really marks their further activity in the case of some regions. Therefore, please do not reject this, so that we have somewhere to deal with the problem itself, so that we can use this bill to find a way to improve the situation in the region's budget in that particular transport area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u9	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to the other speakers, I'll read some apologies. Mr Gazdík apologizes to us within 14 hours for personal reasons; Vice-President Petr Fiala apologises to us from 13:00 to the end of the day; Mrs Nevludová apologises to us from 13.45 to the end of the day for working reasons. Now please, with the factual remark of Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u10	Mrs Mračková exclaimed indignantly that this proposal would not bring anything. Well, he will bring immediate impact on the exposed balance sheets of carriers who provide public transport. They can then, in the context of competitive offers, but also may not, of course, but they will have more scope to project it into the price offered for the given regions. And even if it doesn't, even if it really remains about the balance sheets of the public carriers, it's not true that it's not going to bring anything. It's going to be even more fair than when public budgets swallow it, because if you play fair, today all the items at the 15% rate are on that 10%, and that 15% doesn't exist. From 10 to 14 percent, the reduced rate has been increased in relation to pension reform and from 14 to 15 percent... My colleague... [[Mračková, on whose bench there is a Member of Feranec and discussing.]] I'm begging for time. I just can't talk when you're calling your colleague out loud in front of me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u11	I'm gonna ask for some peace in the room, and please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u12	I'm begging you to cut time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u13	I'll give you another minute later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u14	Thank you. From 10 to 14 per cent, the reduced rate was increased in connection with pension reform and from 14 to 15 per cent was increased to three years. You've made one of those three years, and you've canceled pension reform. So if you were fair, then all of the items are at the 10% rate, there's no 15%, there's no 15%. That would be fair. Whereas you've raised those taxes from the law. So if we can move at least one item of public transport, it'll be a little fair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u15	Thank you. And now I beg Mr Feranc, who is next with a point of fact, then Mr Běhounek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u16	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I respond to the words of Mr Juránek, who said that central government measures, for example. on public transport discounts will have an impact on regional budgets. Well, I may have misunderstood, but I don't understand that statement. It's just that the discount is offset by the state. The state compensates her. It compensates the carrier. That way, if there are more passengers there, it will eventually help the carrier. I mean, he's gonna sort out the fixed costs. I may have misunderstood, but I really don't understand the impact this has on the region's budget. Specifically, a discount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u17	Thank you, too. And now I beg Mr Běhounek, then Mrs Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u18	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I must say that I am a little nervous about this. Providing transport service and its payments, especially in bus transport, and the issues related to how we are to put this together in 14 regions and how we are to agree on cross-border steps and how to coordinate this is a very difficult matter. If we are trying to pull one piece of VAT in this situation right now, and I understand, of course, my colleague Kalousek, that he is looking at it from a budgetary and fair or unfair point of view, we are at risk of releasing the genie from the bottle, because we will then be asking where to take the money on the financing issues. I think that the service of regions and, above all, municipalities without the agreement of both entities is not possible. I draw attention not to such matters, and I do not like this move at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u19	Thank you. And now, please, Mrs Kovářová, who is duly enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to mention in the general debate the amendment that arose after the meeting in the Committee on Budgets and concerns, in addition to public transport, also ferry and cable lines, which means, for example, in Prague, when the carriages are integrated into public transport, as well as the cable car to Petřín. In a detailed debate, I will sign up for this amendment. Furthermore, allow me to respond to some of the comments that have been made here, particularly to some of the words of Mrs Mračková, through Mr President. First of all. I didn't say that I didn't get an answer from the Regional Association, but I said that I didn't get an opinion, which concerns me because I assumed that you spoke here for the Regional Association during the last hearing, so it was also said that you had an opinion, because this draft amendment is here since April, and it was submitted at the end of April. I would then like to respond to what has been said here from your mouth, through Mrs Mr Mračková, the President, that this will certainly not have an impact on the reduction on the fare. That's right, there's no contradiction. But that's not what we want at the moment, because in a way, the fare discounts sort of solved it. We're talking about something else. The point is that, as a result of the Government's regulation to increase drivers' salaries, of course, there has been an increase in the salaries of drivers, but also, as you said through Mr President, it was that the regions had to increase their budgets for public transport expenditure. And the next step, which comes quite regularly, is the gradual increase in minimum wages, and this also affects the margins and tens of millions in individual regions. Furthermore, from your mouth, Mrs Mračková, through Mr President, it was said that the drivers would not receive the increased wages. This is not true, however, because drivers are in the so-called fifth group, and this means that if the state increases the minimum wage as such, then, of course, there is automatically an increase in driver's wages within the Institute of Guaranteed Wages, which means that there is an automatic increase in transport service expenditure not only for regions but also for municipalities. This means that the minimum wage is expected to increase again from next year onwards, and this also means an increase in driver's wages, thus increasing transport service costs. Furthermore, there is relatively rising inflation, which, of course, also automatically increases public transport expenditure every year. And these are the reasons that led us to put forward this law, because we want to minimize, or at least in some mild way support, these very measures that go by the government. Of course, I agree that drivers' wages should be increased because otherwise they cannot be maintained, and we all know what the shortage of drivers is. As for the CZK 930 million blackout, that's true. It is also true that the regions and municipalities will not lose all of this amount, but 219 million. That is one thing that you, Madame, have said through the President, but you have forgotten to say that the remaining hundreds of millions will remain and could use them to increase the expenditure I was talking about. And one last thing. I would like to mention that we are not here to argue for too long about who sent what position, that I have sent you an opinion on the Association of Regions, I think, in early October, that is one thing. And the second thing about the position of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. 19. 9. The Ministry of Finance received an opinion from the Union of Towns and Communities, which says that they have a neutral position on the proposal, perhaps slightly positive. I am therefore surprised that suddenly there has been a change of opinion and we have two opinions here, which I do not honestly understand. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u21	Thank you, too. And now, please, with the factual remark of Mrs Mračková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to react. I really don't want to say if anyone's talking or not telling the truth. I have the e-mail in front of me, Mrs. Kovářová, you sent it to me on October 26th. Well, I don't know, you just said in early October, and I'm gonna show you to believe me. I had it sent to me from the Regional Association's office. I am very surprised that this bill is presented by the Mayors and independents. They've always fought for the cities and communities. After all, they don't get those taxes within the framework of their budgeting. I understand that the proposal would be good for the county that starts its own transport business. But if you can convince me about it, I don't want to say that there is lobbying for carriers in quotation marks. Because whoever gets the funds then, Madame through the President, will be the carriers! And you're convinced that if the minimum wage goes up, the carriers don't come to the edge, that they want the funds for the drivers again? I guarantee you they'll come. Like he walks every year and like every year, we make an amendment to the contract with them. And, of course, within that regulation, this year it was CZK 1,700 per driver. But by introducing the seventy-five percent discount, it covered us, so the regions didn't have to spend that kind of money there this year. So you really want to rob cities, municipalities and regions of 930 million crowns, and it won't have it, and you just say it, the impact on the fare. Well, I still don't know what it's gonna impact on. That the carrier would get it. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And I can't guarantee that the carrier will give it to the driver! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u23	Thank you, too. At this point in time, the actual notes are exhausted, just as they are exhausted... Mrs Kovářová, before the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u24	I would also like to be able to manipulate data like you, Mrs Mr Mračková, through Mr President. The village will not lose the amount of 930 million, because, as you know, there is only a share.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u25	I'm gonna ask you not to shout, let's get this over the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u26	That's right. You need to be clear about how these numbers are. First of all. Secondly, if you say that you do not understand, Madam President, where the savings will take place and how it will be, I am very sorry. So this means that you are completely unclear about how public transport financing is going. [[Noise in the hall.]] Once again, driver's salaries -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u27	I will interrupt you, Madame. I'd like to ask the O.R. on my left to be a little quieter, or to have these conversations moved into the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u28	As far as driver's wages are concerned, this is a legitimate requirement for carriers to come to you and ask for money for driver's wages. It's okay, it's okay. And it is a proven cost, and therefore the region has to pay these amounts. And that's exactly what we're after. Because the hundreds of millions you keep silent, Madame through the President, are the ones that could go to these costs for drivers' wages. After all, I apologize very much for the opinions, but it's just interesting that I didn't receive the second position of the Union of Cities and Cities, which I would expect as a petitioner to do, and you were the only one who got it. But in any case, we have two opinions here and I think that we will deal with these opinions in proposals for return or support at third reading. So let me conclude by saying that, as mayors and independents, we have therefore put forward this proposal to save the municipalities and the regions the money that will then recover the cost of raising drivers' wages. And as for the fact that you negotiated support for the regions for drivers' wages, that is true, but you only got half if I had information from the Central Bohemia Region, so the regions had to pay this amount anyway. But somehow you forgot, or the Union of Towns and Municipalities forgot that the costs of raising drivers' wages were borne by municipalities as well. And they weren't the ones the Union of Towns and Villages was interested in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u29	Thank you. And he's here with the de facto remark of Mr Běhounek. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u30	Let's do it again. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the untruths are sounding here. We don't bail out drivers' wages. We as a county pay for a proven loss. And that's a structure that's much more complex than just driver's wages. Second thing. We didn't negotiate driver's wages. Unfortunately, I had to take part in the meeting at that time during the Association of Regions, because those who were originally nominated were excused. And that decision was taken despite our negative attitude and opposition anyway. We have warned that the construction of a proven loss will be distorted in this way and will be huge costs for us. And the municipalities are only involved when they pay for the ODO, which means other transport services. But regular transport does not apply to the municipality or participate in it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u31	Thank you for keeping time. At this point, we are once again exhausted by both factual remarks and debate. It doesn't look... Is the Member still reporting for the debate? [[In detail.]] Thank you. In that case, we have exhausted the debate. I'm done with the debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words either from the plaintiff or from the rapporteur. It's not like that. The motion to return the guarantee committee didn't fall. We will therefore move to the debate in detail, which I hereby open. I don't have any applications, but the plaintiff is applying. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u32	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to sign up for my amendment under number 1310. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-02-ps2017-020-08-006-016.u33	Thank you, too. Anyone else reporting from the point of view to a detailed debate? It's not like that. I am ending the debate in detail. Is there any interest in the final words either on the part of the appellant or on the part of the rapporteur for a similar debate? It's not like that. In that case, since there have been no voting proposals at this time, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. And we'll move on. By doing so, we have exhausted the fixed points and we will continue the block of second reading according to the agenda of the meeting. First up, point number.
