ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u1	23. Government bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /house print 203/ - first reading Before Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček and the rapporteur for first reading take their seats at the rapporteur's table, I will introduce you to the apologies received. Mr Nacher, Member of Parliament Jiří Mihola apologizes from today's meeting from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day, Mr Lipavskýý apologizes today from 14.00 to 19.00, Mr Petr Gazdík apologizes from today's meeting from 16.30 to the end of the sitting day for reasons of work and from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day Mr Jiří Běhounek apologizes for family reasons. I, ladies and gentlemen, will ask you to remain calm, so that we can discuss another bill and, as I have already announced, I ask the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, to state this government bill. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me very briefly, on the basis of the Government's mandate, to present the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Act on the residence of foreigners and other related laws. The main impulse to prepare this amendment was the obligation of the Czech Republic to transpose a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for research and study purposes. This directive replaces two older directives that have dealt with the same issue, and our legal order is therefore already in line with most of the requirements of this new directive. The situation of foreigners who reside here for the purpose of scientific research or study is now facilitated. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The government also responds with this proposal to the current situation in the area of migration in order to pursue economic activity. Employers point to a shortage of workers and demand an increased supply of foreign labour, thus increasing the number of applications for residence permits. The Czech Republic has limited capacity at its representative offices and is therefore unable to meet this increase in applications effectively. At the same time, the Czech Republic has no direct option to influence which country and in what number potential foreign workers will be coming from.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u3	I am sorry, Mr Vice-President of the Government, but I am almost done hearing you, too, so I ask all Members of Parliament to stop talking out loud so that we can focus on discussing this government bill. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u4	Thank you. The government's aim is to guide and, in particular, to manage migration responsibly for the purpose of carrying out economic activity, depending on the expected development of the economic cycle, the specific needs of the labour market, as well as the country of origin of foreigners. The proposal therefore contains two instruments for how the government can achieve this goal. The Government will be entitled to determine for a particular country the maximum number of long-stay visa applications submitted for business, residence permits for investment and employee cards. Following the needs of the labour market and the Czech Republic, the government will be able to e.g. provide that in Ukraine a maximum of x thousand employee card applications may be submitted in one calendar year. This number will be publicly known and will be adapted to the capacity of the public authorities. This concept is already applied in the regime of Ukraine and in the project of Ukraine. The second instrument of government will then be the possibility of issuing exceptional work visas in the event of a shortage of workers on the labour market and, in particular, cases of shortage of workers in specific sectors. The government will be able to determine the countries of origin of foreigners, the economic sector or the profession and the number of incoming foreigners. Holders of an exceptional working visa will stay in the Czech Republic for a maximum of one year. The government also proposes a new obligation for foreigners to undertake an adaptation integration course and this obligation applies to all foreigners who want to stay in the Czech Republic for more than one year. However, it is not subject to EU citizens. Within an eight-hour course, a foreigner will learn about the rights and obligations related to his stay, the basic values of the Czech Republic, local conditions and prevailing cultural practices. The course that foreigners can voluntarily complete will already be charged, but it will be possible for the employer to pay the fee, and non-absolving the course will be a misdemeanor for which a fine of CZK 10,000 will threaten. So much for me, I guess. And I'm asking you to release this bill after your assessment to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u5	Thank you. And I ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Radovan Vích, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u6	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the petitioner has already justified the House's press 203 accordingly, and I do not consider it necessary to recapitulate its words in any way. I will therefore focus on a few points in particular on discussing the bill here in the Chamber of Deputies. The proposal integrates the European Directive 2016/801 into the Czech legal system, which deals with granting the right of entry and residence into the EU Member States, i.e. in this case the Czech Republic, for the following reasons: research, study, internship, volunteer service, etc. The deadline for introducing the directive into the Czech legal system has passed. The proposal also contains other parts that are not so-called. Transpositional. For example, they address the introduction of quotas for economic migration according to the current needs of the state and employers, as well as the issue of centres to support the integration of foreigners so far funded by European funds. These centres should continue to be financed from the Czech state budget due to major changes in the EU budget. Funding from the Czech budget will enable the use of these centres to address current security risk prevention problems. It is also appropriate to ask what foreigners the government intends to accept. I therefore take the view that this proposal needs to be forwarded to the next reading and subject it to due consideration in committees, at least by the Security Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open the general debate to which the Rakušan Member has come forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, right to the start of the information and attitude of our parliamentary club. We are clearly in favour of the law being released for second reading. We believe that it is in the Czech Republic's strategic interest at a time when, in various professions and professional professions, it does not receive qualified labour to allow people from abroad to apply for such a position. We are talking about university students who, after completing their studies in the Czech Republic, can continue to stay here and pursue their profession. We are also talking about the introduction of a mandatory integration course for foreigners here, which we consider to be a very good institute only because it can be the prevention of any social exclusion of these people in the future, and we think that this is also a good prevention of possible security risks that can be linked to any type of migration. At the same time, however, at second reading, we will also consider the amendments that we will come up with. For example, the mentioned institute of the annual work stay, which is the institute when the stranger comes here, can only be here for one year and then the Czech Republic basically has to leave again. It is a question of whether this will not be linked to the possibility of any other residence institute within the Czech Republic, if the foreigner is successful and if it turns out that his presence within the Czech Republic is simply economically beneficial. At the same time, but I will not bother with that right now, we will also deal with the institute of possible forgiveness in possible specific cases of the integral adaptation course. This will be done for example. about the person affected, etc. But that's a second reading thing. Please allow me, Mr President, to suggest at the same time that a foreign committee should also deal with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u9	Yes, thank you. I will then ask you, Mr Member, to repeat this when we vote on the assignment of the various committees. Is Mr Benda now signed up and I am registering an application for a debate or a factual comment? Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u10	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be long this time. I just have to say that I am extremely interested in the speech of the Home Secretary with a mandatory integration course. I'd really like to know who invented it, who cashes it and what it's good for. [[with laughter]] The idea that we have some eight-hour training here, so we will exclude EU citizens from it, I understand that, but they can still work here permanently, so it doesn't concern them at all. I don't really know why to make such training out of hygienic and cultural habits for people from our cultural circle. Why demand such things from the inhabitants of the United States, Canada, and others? It may make sense to do such operations towards people from other cultural areas, but then, in my opinion, it would be fair to say so. To simply say who comes from another culture, so maybe they have to take the course. But it's not just a course where they should learn a language. There they will really tell them that in the Czech Republic they eat with a fork and knife and soup with a spoon and don't sip from a plate. Women go in the door. Perhaps we will again touch some too conscious people in the Western part of the world who feel that women no longer have to enter the door. I just feel like it's completely useless throwing money away. And I would very much like the committees that are going to consider whether we need to consider those mandatory trainings, which are invented especially by the trainers, in all possible and impossible laws... There's at least one increase every month, at least one. Let's be careful about this. It's really just the people who are trained to provide it. And it's always going through here as a little unconscious, and I'd like it not to happen this time. At the same time, I think that, if so far, this is being directed to the Foreign Committee and the Security Committee, as if it were some safety-related issues. I think that if someone should be ordered to do so, it should be the Economic Committee, because there should be a fundamental debate about what forces we need, forces in our economy, how quickly to react, whether it is the government to set it or someone else. In my opinion, if anyone is to discuss this, and I would also like to suggest that the economic committee does so. This is not a question of security, it is a question of the forces we need in our economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u11	Thank you. Mr Veselý, who has come forward, will now make a point of fact. And then, with priority rights, Minister Hamáček and following him will be entered into the debate by Mr Profant. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hope I don't blow it out on the minister. But unlike my previous speaker, I consider these integration courses to be a very good thing. A lot of misunderstandings and clashes are happening between migrants and locals just out of cultural differences and misunderstandings about what is common. I'm going to overdo it, but it's a pretty good example. For example, the fact that a woman takes off her bathing suit and goes swimming in it does not mean that she invites men to notice her significantly, to touch her and to harass her somehow. But in other cultures, it can be a challenging gesture. That's what it's all about so these people can understand what cultural customs are like in our country. If you've read a explanatory report that's very long, it's supposed to be state-controlled adaptation centers. The course is quite long. I just point out that they still have to demonstrate the mastery of the Czech language in order to fulfil some obligations. The knowledge of Czech culture, how they should behave here, what access is to the population, what is happening, it is quite important to me that these conflicts do not occur. In my opinion, on the contrary, adaptation courses are more than necessary and very appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u13	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the Minister, there are other factual points. Mr Benda, Mr Klaus after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u14	With all due respect to my predecessor, whom I otherwise appreciate very much, first of all, I think that we are not talking about migrants at all, but we are talking about staying foreigners who come for short stays or maybe annual stays, but helping out here into the economy. I am not aware that they would be required to know the Czech language. Knowledge of the Czech language is required if you apply for citizenship or permanent residence, but it is definitely not required if someone wants to hire you to work. I was just questioning whether these integration courses are good for anything, and if they are, if they are, then if it's not meant to be considered, let's just say, social-religious courses, which are far from us, but if we really consider it necessary for an Američan to come here to work, raise in that we eat with a fork and a knife.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u15	Thank you. Mr Klaus and his point of order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u16	I would also respond to Mr Veselý. I would've signed his previous appearance at the attorneys'. I don't understand what you're saying here -- the purpose is to rearrange these people somehow to control themselves when they see a woman wearing a bathing suit. As a teacher, I'm gonna tell you, every class is supposed to have a test to finish. So it will be part of being subjected to a sexual examination, if they show them a woman in a bathing suit, if these people are still in control, then they will be admitted to the Czech Republic, and otherwise they will not? I'd like to elaborate on your argument that it's just nonsense. I support what Mr. Benda has said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u17	With priority rights, Minister Hamáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u18	Thank you. I would very much not like the debate on this, in my opinion, to turn to the debate on adaptational application courses. I understand Mr Benda, subject to him, for example, to the citizens of the United States and other countries, but I also understand my colleague Veselý. Because those courses are already taking place. They run on a voluntary basis and have very good experience with them. I would like to say for myself that during the legislative process I am not opposed to discussing how to grasp the whole problem of courses, but I would not like to see the whole law crashed on it, which I believe the Czech Republic needs very much. If I have the floor, I would like to make it clear that, given that the text is already an earlier date and has been in the Ministry of the Interior for some time, I will then submit an amendment at second reading which will cover the shortening of the time limits for the expulsion of foreigners who have committed crimes here. I've already announced this at the press conference. Please don't just narrow it down to integration and adaptation courses, and I say to the Ministry that we are ready to discuss and we will certainly find a solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u19	Thank you. Mr Profant, enrolled in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u20	Hello, there. I would like to ask the Minister about Section 168 of this law, which states: "In proceedings under this law in a part held before the representative office, the submission can only be made in paper form." I believe that this is a dispute that takes place at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is unable to provide quality services on embassy sites, and therefore cancels electronic communication options such as various requests and the like. I have heard of this problem several times, but it seems absurd to me to deal with it by putting it in a hard form. So I'd like to get some comments about it later, like at second reading, to learn how it is or isn't, and for what reasons this paragraph is changing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u21	Thank you. We have a factual point here, Mr Benda will respond. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u22	It's really just a brief word for the Minister. I'm glad he made a commitment to think about it. But if he says that there are courses up to now, they are on a voluntary basis who wants to go through them, he's going through them, it's useful for many, so we're going to do something that works somehow, we're going to make it an obligation under sanctions. Everyone's either gonna go through with it, or they're gonna pay 10,000 tickets. Well, I doubt it's a reasonable step. And then I only hope that the proposals that the Minister brings will be in the committees and will not be in the Chamber of Deputies until the second reading. But that's probably just a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u23	Mr Klaus will also respond to a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u24	I will respond to a more serious note to the Minister, not just to the courses. I would understand if there was pressure from the Czech Ministry of Industry, which would appeal to government MPs, that they are not employees, entrepreneurs call for it to import employees from Mongolia or Vietnam or I do not know where from, and therefore it is necessary to adopt the law in order to make it easier in some way. I'd understand that humanly. But forgive me, I am very suspicious that this is a European law that concerns migration and, of course, a little bit of the study. I think every judge has to look up his eyebrows, because very often we follow the salami method, as it is first newborns up to 14 days of age, then within three weeks, then they're 19, then they're 23, then they're family members, old grandmothers, etc. This is actually a similar thing. So they are not workers, students, etc., so it warns me that it is not our own law that Czech entrepreneurs want, Czech ministers, but it is implementation again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u25	Thank you. In the debate, the Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u26	To Mr Klaus. Well, it's both. We had two options, either to carry out a clean implementation, which is precisely to facilitate the situation of foreigners who study here or are here for the purpose of scientific research. This is the European part that we want to implement. Then there is a response to the demands of the business sector, when the government is trying to simplify the process of labour supply from abroad. And to the Home Office, it seemed meaningful to solve it in one law at a time. Otherwise, it would have to be laws two. As I was talking here about setting the maximum number of applications submitted or the extra work visas, these are the responses to the demand of our entrepreneurs, our economy, and we are looking for a way to process these applications as quickly as possible. If we just go along the way of these stays, that's where it's administratively very difficult. It means several visits to the appropriate workplace, there's biometrics. And that work visa or that extraordinary visa will allow us to respond more flexibly to our economy's demand. Mr Profant. Of course, I can't answer you now. I will find out, and the amendment will come to the committee's meeting, and I will provide you with information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-19-ps2017-019-06-004-023.u27	Thank you. I do not have another application for a debate or I do not see anyone reporting, so I am ending the debate. Is there interest in final words? The Minister is not interested, nor is the rapporteur. The motion to return or refuse has not been made, so we will deal with the motion on the commandments of the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The proposal of the Organisational Committee shall be to instruct the submitted material to be discussed by the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Is there any other proposal for a guarantee committee? That is not the proposal, so we will proceed to the vote. [[12.40 hours]] We are voting on the commandment of the motion to discuss the Security Committee as a committee of guarantee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 136, 166 Members voted in favour of 146, against 2. We have decided that the Committee on Security will be the Guarantee Committee to discuss this proposal. In the debate, two proposals were made for the commandment to other committees. The Rakušan Member has proposed a foreign committee, Mr Benda has proposed an economic committee. Is there any other motion on the commandment to one of the committees for discussion? It's not. We will be voting on these two proposals gradually. We will now vote on the commandment to the foreign committee for discussion. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 137, 167 Members voted in favour of 132. The motion was accepted. The next vote will be on the commandment to the Economic Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 138, 167 Members registered, for 119, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that we have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Foreign and Economic Affairs. I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the rapporteur and end the first reading of this proposal. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
