ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u1	15. Proposal by Members Petr Gazdík, Zbyněk Stanjura, Ivan Bartoš, Helena Langšádlová, Radim Fiala and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on the record of sales, as amended by Act No. 183/2017 Coll. House printing 41/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered as House Press 41/1 and I will ask that the proposal be presented by the representatives of the plaintiffs, who, in agreement, is Mr Vít Rakušan. Please, Mr. Speaker, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u2	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me present here the proposal of a group of 66 Members amending Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on the record of sales, as amended. The proposal is very simple. It is essential that only VAT payers, i.e. entrepreneurs with a turnover of more than CZK 1 million, should be involved in electronic sales records. The EET would not thus affect the smallest small businessmen. We feel that all who move in our regions, that the negative effects of this measure most often affect the smallest ones, fall on local entrepreneurs, fall on the owners of local shops and restaurants. And maybe we are just passing in the basic sense that EET was introduced to in the long term, so that there will be no large tax evasion, so that the tax collection in the Czech Republic is better. [[9.20 hours]] We do not really believe that this measure can be systemically helpful even if the smallest ones are burdened, who do not have a turnover of more than CZK 1 million. After all, the Constitutional Court's finding of last year, which cancels the third and fourth stage of the e-booking of sales envisaged by the law, as well as the minority, introduces a third of the constitutional judges to the measure for small entrepreneurs. For small entrepreneurs, this is not just about immediate financial costs, but also about the burden on the entrepreneur of other worries, which he is already over his head. Nor can it be overlooked that older, smaller entrepreneurs without computer knowledge and online connection are destroyed by law as a class. In our proposal, we do not really come out of the philosophy that everyone who does business is a thief. We really do not come from the point of view that everyone in this country steals and starts their business for the purpose of cheating the state to optimize tax. We come from the fact that small entrepreneurs are the ones who, on the contrary, give our society dynamics, give dynamics to our economy, and we believe that all of us in our electoral programs had provisions on how the state should serve people, make life easier, make it difficult for them. We are simply convinced that in this case, we can simplify life for beginners or older small entrepreneurs in a unique and simple way. We therefore believe that the VAT payment instrument, or the turnover of CZK 1 million per year, is the right, adequate limit from which we can come out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur and open the debate, President Bartoš, who, of course, I will give the floor to, has been given priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u4	Good morning, dear colleagues. I'd just like to follow up on my previous speaker. We joined this proposal, even in the campaign we had the motto "not everyone steals" It was important for us when the idea of EET was created, so we went to the Ministry of Finance. We talked to Mr. Andrej Babiš. We explained to him what are the problems of the digital market, what are other types of business that the Minister at least discovered at that time only after EET launched, that there are problems with e-shops and, in particular, that the biggest tax evasions are completely in other parts of the business, are within far larger business and that the impact on those small entrepreneurs can be liquidation. That is why we have joined this proposal, which relieves obligations. This does not mean that it prohibits entrepreneurs who have already introduced the EET to use it, but we are actually talking about the importance of allocating these smallest entrepreneurs, VAT payers, and therefore the pirate party supports this proposal and we are one of its promoters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I will now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Stanislav Juránek, to take the floor. Please, rapporteur. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u6	As far as this sales record bill is concerned, the basic principle here has been suggested. For starters, I will just say that this is not against the spirit of the Constitutional Court, which has already dealt with this law. The Parliamentary Institute has told us that this law is not contrary to EU law, and the government has also told us that it does not agree with this law. I believe that when discussing this law, we will find the right way for those who need to use the EET and for those who do not need to use the EET. I think that the boundaries that have been chosen have been chosen very appropriately, but this will be the following discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. On this point, I am opening up a general debate in which the Minister of Finance has signed up first with priority, and then we will continue with proper applications. And I am registering an application for a debate by the rapporteur, who has the right of priority on this point. Would you like to speak after the honourable Member? No prior rights, okay. I'm marking it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I'll try not to be too long. You have the government's position at your disposal. We have expressed both the Ministry of Finance and the Government's disapproval of this proposal, and that is basically from such crucial points. The first thing is that if the sales record were to apply without just VAT payers, we would essentially lose 60 percent of the taxpayers, that was the basic argument, and that's actually going to get lost - and we never said in response to what was said to the plaintiff that everyone was stealing. Nothing like that has ever been said. We just wanted to set a level playing field for all entrepreneurs. And just because all the associations of the business and the chamber support us, I think it's proof that this is the way in the right direction. However, we have not stalled and we have prepared an amendment to the Sales Recording Act, and that is the fundamental reason why I do not agree with this proposal. Since we have a complete amendment prepared, it responds to all the reservations of the Constitutional Court. And I would like to point out that only the opinion is constantly being expressed, the decent opinion of the five constitutional judges, but the point is that the remaining majority vote in favour of EET being a legitimate tool for examining tax obligations and tax evasion. I'm not gonna be here remembering the numbers of classified sales of the statistical office because I quote them and I've quoted so many times that I think everyone knows them. In particular, in view of the Constitutional Court's decision with absolute humility, we have respected all the reservations that the Constitutional Court has and prepared an amendment. We are also counting on introducing a new type of offline mode for the smallest ones in this novel. All criteria for the smallest were consulted with all business associations and chambers. I have not yet sent the proposal to the inter-ministerial commentary proceedings because we have sent it to all the unions and business chambers, we are debating with others, with medical professional associations and with other circles, and we are discussing all their comments and suggestions. Basically, we had the options prepared and we decided for the one who had the greatest support from these very representatives, who basically represent the majority of entrepreneurs in this country. And that's crucial to me. The amendment is ready, and I therefore have a fundamental disagreement with this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u9	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u10	Good morning. Thank you for the floor. So first, a brief response to the Minister's speech. Business associations represent most entrepreneurs. I wonder which ones represent the majority. I don't want to question their legitimacy. We deal with the Chamber of Commerce quite often, but that one of these associations would represent most entrepreneurs, so certainly not. Or they certainly don't represent most of the entrepreneurs we're discussing today. I don't want to repeat all our reservations about the EET. In the debate, I want to focus only on the smallest entrepreneurs who are not VAT payers. When you remember the reason message and the whole EET campaign, the main motive was to collect more VAT. I think we agree, Madam Secretary, that no VAT can be collected from VAT payers because they do not pay that tax. [[9.30 hours]] So the main purpose - and I say, today I don't want to have that basic idea dispute, which is that for you all are dirty suspects, and online they are developing that basic trust has been lost here, that entrepreneurs are decent. The vast majority of entrepreneurs are decent, fulfilling their duties properly, including tax obligations. I don't want to talk about that today. Let's focus on the VAT bill. Yes, a popular argument when we say these people don't pay VAT, but they pay income tax. And that's true. So I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary, I'm sure the numbers are available to him, unlike the opposition, how many VAT payers today are subject to the first and second waves of EET, how many entrepreneurs it is, and what is the qualified estimate of the Ministry of Finance, how much, thanks to the introduction of the EET for these non-payments with a turnover of up to CZK 1 million each year, has been raised by the income income of the State from income tax. Because that's the amount we're talking about. If - And I don't think that's true - but if the income tax on these people goes up, I want to know how much in those first two waves. And then let's talk about whether that amount is equivalent to the cost on the part of the state and the cost on the part of these smallest entrepreneurs. Question two. How many of these VAT payers that are subject to the first and second EET waves do they have as a single source of income? That it's not the kind of business I make extra money from. That means the ones for whom it's a full-time job. Because they're the people we should be protecting. I think that, in general, the approach of the Czech state should be that I protect small and babysit large. Unfortunately, the past government and this government are going about this in a completely different way. That means I protect the big ones and I babysit and I keep checking on the small ones. There's no logic in the revenue of the state budget. We all know that the dominant income from taxes - now aside from social security - is VAT. It's the top priority. If I simplify it, it is about three times higher than corporate tax and also about three times higher than personal income tax. If we take a year's income. And now I'm talking about what's in the state budget, but with the total tax revenue, it's a lot like that, even though it's shared taxes. All other taxes except consumer taxes, but we're not talking about that, they actually have a completely negligible volume. Whether it's the real estate tax we were arguing about a few weeks ago, when it's 11 or 12 billion. per year. I say 11 or 12, 12 billion. per year, which is about 3 to 3,5 percent of the VAT revenue, if I'm calculating this quickly in my head roughly exactly. So we can make business easier for the smallest with a turnover of up to CZK 1 million a year. Not with an income of up to CZK 1 million per year for the person - with a turnover. He's not really gonna take anything on those states. I understand the argument that the Minister said that most constitutional judges were opposed to abolishing the overall law. The secretary's interpretation is that it's legitimate, my interpretation is that it's not unconstitutional, which is two completely different adjectives. And I agree, according to most constitutional judges, the EET as a whole is not unconstitutional. But if we take the targets. You remember the hundreds of hospitals, kindergartens and schools for the 18 billion. A year? What does EET bring? Even if I believed that, I'm asking: out of the 18 billion, hypothetical, unproven - but let's not argue about this number - how much of it falls to the smallest, you non-VAT payer? The ministry itself, at least according to media outputs, is thinking of some kind of income limit. Somewhere I've heard 250 thousand, some say 500 thousand, I think the upper chamber of Parliament is proposing 750 thousand. That's where I don't see logic. I see logic precisely at the limit set by the State: the payer - VAT payer. That is why many of our club have joined this bill. I think it was signed by Members of six clubs, which is an unprecedented consensus. And I recommend that we release this bill to second reading. We're not interrupting anything. We will, where appropriate, create room for a more detailed debate on the Committee on Budgets on the figures and statistics. So once again, how many of these insubordinates are there? What is the potential yield due to EET? How much did the income tax go up? If we subtract the fact that the economy as a whole is growing, so the economic results of the smallest ones are growing. And whether the instrument is adequate and whether it makes life more difficult. And I'll ask everyone who thinks about it to remember that we have about 6,250 municipalities. EET, smoking ban and other regulation really threaten essential functions especially in the smallest municipalities. It's still very difficult to run a shop or a restaurant or a pub there. And by further and further regulation, we make these services difficult for citizens, the very common result is the closure of these establishments and the deterioration of the quality of life in the countryside. So let's not always look at the eyes of the capital city of Prague, where there are many of these services, restaurants and all the other shops, so if one dies, there will be another, or no one will even notice that one has died. Consider the view of a small rural community. And if you don't believe the opposition, ask the mayors and the representatives who are in charge of public affairs in those communities. Many say that the key tasks include what mayors of larger cities do not know at all. Ensure the operation of trade, ensure the functioning of the restaurant, ensure basic services so that everyone does not have to commute to the larger cities. Very often we complain about how the countryside is emptying out. One reason is the lack of infrastructure and the lack of a wide range of services for citizens living there. I would like, in particular, to ask members of the ANO movement to give this proposal a chance. If we don't agree by the third reading, you can always reject it at the third reading. We do not accept the law today, but take into account that six MPs - or the vast majority of the members of the six MPs who represent more voters than you have won. So try to rationally debate our electorate's views with us, because this is not a surprising suggestion. All those who signed this bill in their electoral programmes by which they asked citizens to trust had either a complete abolition of the EET, or restrictions or simplifications or removal of certain business groups. And if we talk about an equal business environment, we can't even talk about it by dividing it into waves. If the Minister is to hoist for the settlement of the business environment, the most powerful instrument that violates the business environment, the equality of the business environment, is subsidies. At this point, let us put aside European subsidies, because if we don't pump them, someone else is pumping them. Let's focus on national subsidies. And there's a market crooked, there's an inequality in the business environment. So if we're serious about fixing the business environment, let's leave EET on the side, that's not the point, and let's focus on national subsidies. [[9.40 hours]] And I have a third and final question for the secretary. And I know it's very complicated that we're not able to get objective data on the gray economy because then it wouldn't be gray, but legal. But let's come out of qualified estimates of those institutions that have been involved in this for a long time, and let's try to identify here on the microphone an area in which those who understand it and who make studies to do it, the professional work they have identified in the Czech Republic as the area where the largest space of the grey economy is. I know those studies, I think, and the secretary. It is not the fields that are burdened by EET in the first and second waves. And if someone wants to fight the gray economy - and they have our support in that, because the gray economy is nothing that deserves any support - then they should actually remember the opening pages of those studies on the gray economy, which, when they start comparing individual states and percentages and so on, actually identify the causes of the gray economy. And the causes are two basics. High taxes and a complicated tax system are the first causes of a gray economy. And two: too many regulations, regulations, and decrees. So if we want to fight the grey economy, and we want, as citizens' democrats, to go this way, to lower and simplify taxes, to remove unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles, and then it certainly doesn't pay to many to do complex operations to optimize taxes. And I'm going back to the basic one, and that's the state's attitude towards big and small. And let's be honest about it, and it's legal. Who has the means to optimize the tax base? Are those the ones who have a turnover of up to one million, or the biggest companies that are able to pay for quality expert audit advisors? The answer is very simple. A small businessman with a turnover of up to one million doesn't have the financial and personnel resources to optimize taxes at all. And the others do. And now, we're very happy to talk about the experience of community policy. Well, I have an example, even if it's not exactly accurate. There was a dog charging system in our town many years ago. I'm sure Madam Secretary knows. Basically, if I simplify it a little bit, the cheapest fee for a dog was if you had that dog in your family home, preferably senior, and dearest if you had that dog in your panel house and you weren't senior. When you looked at the statistics, at that time in Opava only the seniors who lived in their homes had dogs. Then we united the rate, left the lowest, and within two years we knew exactly where the dogs were. And wonder, they were in the panel houses, too. At the time that the system was cheap and transparent and simple, no one had the need to invent any other information on such a hundred crown item. Because the cost of not admitting it was much higher than if he'd admitted it. And that's exactly the way we're supposed to go. Low, simple taxes, little regulation, the more we reduce the room for the grey economy. Then I'll repeat the questions so you don't forget. Madam Secretary must know them, but for everyone else. How many entrepreneurs do we actually have burdened with the first and second waves of EET, which concern this proposal, that is, are not VAT payers? So the VAT return went up by zero because it was zero and it's zero, zero without zero is zero. How much is the potentially increased income from income tax for entrepreneurs with a turnover of up to CZK 1 million, if such a number even exists? Thank you for any answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Okamura. [[Ambassador Okamura is waiting for a word at the speaker's desk.]] I'm sorry. With a point of fact, if that is true, Mr. Bláha? For a second, Mr Vice-President, I have overlooked the point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u12	Hello, colleagues and colleagues, hello, Mr President. I'd just like to say a little something, as you all know, how the grey economy will be removed. I'm not as good a speaker as those who have been here for so long. But the situation is a little bit different. I live that time, I've been in business for 28 years, and really, believe me, if we want the decent businessmen to stay here that you've been talking about, we need to put in place a unified control system for everyone. Because what's happening is actually telling all the honest people: don't do it the way you do it, it's better if you steal. And that, unfortunately, is the way things are between us. Let's finally face it, everyone. I've mentioned it several times. In the field of cook-reader is, I dare say with great responsibility, 70 percent of people employed so-called partially black. That means they get 12 fucks, the rest black. I know a lot of cases, these people come to me and they tell me. I'm meeting these businessmen, and we're talking about why they're doing this. When these people are employed in black, somewhere that money has to be taken. Where are they going to get married? Those sales are gonna go down. When sales are cut, VAT is not paid. A bunch of companies were not registered as VAT payer before the introduction of the control report or EET. In doing so, they were businesses that made more than a million a month. Only because they didn't admit it. It was easy. I'm gonna charge this, I'm not gonna charge this. It really is. I live in this life. [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] I live with these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u13	Thank you. Mr Stanjura's point of fact, then the de facto remark by Vice-President Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u14	Indeed, Mr Bláha's speech. Twelve grand they gave them a bang, okay. Twelve times twelve is one hundred forty-four thousand, with contributions of 34 percent we're somewhere at one hundred eighty, one hundred and ninety thousand revenue, or expenses for one employee. We're talking businessmen who have a turnover of up to one million. How many of these employees can they have if they pay a hundred and eighty thousand a year? That means they could fit five in a million, and they wouldn't have any more costs. We're talking about non-VAT, and you're telling us how they cheat on VAT. So there's a completely out-of-the-way debate. A completely out-of-the-way debate. And I'm sorry, it's not about speaking. Say "a little bit different" - I don't know what that means. It's either completely different or a little bit different. And speaking again of those dishonest entrepreneurs, and I'm not saying that they aren't, and I didn't say that there are tools to eradicate the gray economy. I said shrink the space. That's completely different, and I can ironize that we're like that, and someone always steals. But those are general truths that can't be refuted. I was talking about reducing space for the gray economy. So try to figure out how many honest ones and the dishonest ones are, how the honest ones shut it down, because the dishonest ones win the market. I'm convinced it's exactly the opposite. The vast majority are honest. If you or anyone else who's dishonest, have that financial office go in there, make sure he does a proper checkup, he's had enough of the tools. He's got enough tools without an EET. Don't talk about VAT, about missing VAT revenue when we're talking about VAT non-payments. There's no logic to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u15	Well, thank you, Mr President, for keeping time precise. Now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Petr Fiala, then Mr Jiří Bláha. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my point of fact also refers to what Mr Bláha has said here. First of all, I would say that, of course, it is possible that someone has such bad luck that they move in an environment where they just steal and cheat around them, and that is certainly not enviable. On the other hand, on the other hand, I would warn you very much that we should do politics based only on our impressions, emotions and not facts. [[9.50 hours]] The facts are clear. The share of the gray economy is some - in every political system, in every country. And when we look at international comparisons, it is very low in the Czech Republic, and we are basically approaching those countries that have almost the smallest grey economy. We are not close to Croatia, according to which we have taken over the model of electronic sales records, but we are approaching much more Germany where they have no such thing. And the other thing. You meet, through the President, people who do some business and use dishonest forms of business because they have some reasons, as you said here. And I'm meeting people again to change your perspective in some way right now, who are doing honest business, trying to keep a pub in the village, business and something like that. And instead of making the terms for it, he throws the sticks under their feet and invents such useless things as electronic records of sales that prevent and make it harder for them in their honest business. I don't think this is the role of the state. The role of the state is to try to preserve people who are doing some service, especially in small towns, who are doing something for others who have the craft, the pub, the shop. It's a matter of the state. [[Attention on time.]] And we've come up with a system that keeps them from doing it and only complicates their lives. And that's just wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u17	Thank you. Now a point of fact - Mr Bláha. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u18	The situation is really different. Remember, you don't live in that reality that's somewhere else. You're not with those people who get up to work every day. You're not even close. [[Ambassador Okamura from the bench in front of the speaker's desk: That's not true!]] You live here in Prague and you don't meet those who make money for us every day. [[Reactions in the right side of the hall.]] I live with these people and do business in that environment. And really, the situation is very serious. And I don't want to stir up who's honest and who's not honest. Some people are cornered just because they can't go on and on. And you were preparing those laws. And you've been changing them all the time. And you were able to control everyone. And you didn't. And today you're judging an EET that really helped. It didn't weigh an inch on me as an entrepreneur. He won't keep me a second a day. Indeed, it will help me to keep an eye on some dishonest employees, too, because unfortunately that is the case. The girls behind the checkouts are sometimes unhappy that someone will come, and before they discover that the person is carrying money home, because they just put it in their pockets, EET will help, because the ticket has to be given. And that, unfortunately, is the way things are between us. We just don't want to admit it. I don't put everyone in one bag. No way. And I can understand even those who cheat, why they do it. They're cornered quite often. But it is by frequent changes to the law, by bad control, by noncompliance, by not requiring things and changes... We've brought 52 amendments here in the last week. It's impossible to apply at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u19	Thank you, too. Vice-President Okamura has yet to wait, because there are other factual points. Vice-President Petr Fiala, then Mr Marian Jurečka. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u20	My following comment does not refer to any person, but it has a purely philosophical dimension and sounds like this: stupidity is rude. And it is really extremely impertinent to refer to Members and Members in this Chamber as people who have no experience in normal life, do not see what is happening around them, do not know people who work every day, do not work alone, do not have families, do not have children, do not have parents, do not know what it means to deal with the common problems that people face. And to think that Members and Members are some sort of sect or political class that lives outside this world, that's a stupid ideology. That's completely unacceptable. And I, for you, Mr Bláha, through Mr President, assure you that most of us live in the normal world, know what people are experiencing, and can judge it. So please don't tell us such nonsense that is really hard to listen to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u21	Thank you. A point of fact - Mr Marian Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u22	Good morning, Mr President, dear colleagues. I would like to respond, through Mr President, to Mr Bláha's colleague. I respect that he has a company he's built, and he's certainly a respected businessman in his field. But we're talking about other types of businessmen here. We're talking about small businessmen who aren't VAT payers. We're talking about making their business easier if they want to. We are not forcing this change, as has been said here. We have also pursued this in the former government coalition. In the end, the compromise was not possible, which is why at least we fought for a total of four stages, making the Constitutional Court clear on the third and fourth stages. But what I want to do is define myself to one thing. Please, Mr. Ambassador, don't tell me we're living in a bubble. I grew up in agriculture, for 11 years as a self-employed man. When I'm on vacation, I'm home. As a Member or as Minister, I have no problem getting up in the morning, going to clean up the animals, going to the fields, working with agricultural technology, working manually, with my hands. I don't live in a bubble. I have five kids at home. Every day when I'm home, I'm in normal life like all citizens of the Czech Republic. Please, don't blame whoever's in the bubble and who's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u23	Thank you. There is another factual point - Mr Pavel Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, esteemed members of the government, so I, too, have some practical life. We run some apartments in Pec pod Sněžkou. We would probably be concerned about what we're discussing here right now. Please, the practical side of things is that we have free software on one phone. When we're billing, it's done in seconds. We'll send a receipt to the person who checked in with us by mail on the phone. And that's the whole process. I don't know why we're discussing this here. And it's about the first wave. And it's about the tradesmen up to one million. And it's no problem at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. That's how we dealt with the facts. Vice-President Okamura, then President Kalousek. I will also read the apologies: Mr Lubomír Volný for health reasons from 10 a.m. today, Mrs Hyťhová from 9 a.m. to 14.30 for personal reasons, Mr Milan Pour from 1 p.m. to 16.30 for work reasons. Please, Mr. Vice-President. It's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that we can finally discuss in the House the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Electronic Recording of Sales, the so-called EET, which we are co-chairmen of. Let me remind you that our SPD movement in the last parliamentary term was only one of the three parties in the House, which voted against the introduction of the EET, because we were just pointing out that the EET would very much damage the smallest businessmen who often only earn money from their activities. To be correct, let me remind you that the SPD, TOP 09 and ODS voted against the EET. And all other parties voted in favour of the introduction of the EET for the smallest tradesmen. We in the SPD make it clear that taxes are due. That is why we have proposed and proposed a so-called flat-rate tax for the smallest traders, as in the developed countries of the world. Such a system does not burden small businessmen and the state gets its own. We have in our political program, with which we went to the elections, that we want to abolish the EET and replace it with flat-rate taxes, not flat-rate taxes, as they sometimes mistake, but flat-rate taxes, that is, the state has its own and the businessman is not burdened. We want it in the turnover of 500,000 crowns a year. [[10.00 hours]] This amendment of the law therefore at least reduces some negative impacts of the EET from our point of view when it proposes that the EET should apply only to persons who are VAT payers, i.e. the turnover exceeds CZK 1 million. So, from our point of view, this is a welcome change, and, of course, the SPD members will vote to change the system so far to help small businessmen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u27	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, in the form of a factual comment, let me respond to my previous speaker and then tell you what I had in mind when I came forward for the debate. The flat-rate tax mentioned here by Vice-President Okamura is quite a nice institute, but I am only prepared to support it as a voluntary one. Because if we introduce it mandatory for everyone, we will basically introduce a mandatory minimum tax on those who have not received any income in a given year. And if income tax is to be paid, it would seem very illogical to me to pay it, even if they were lost and had no income. This would return to 2004, when a mandatory minimum tax of 10 000 was introduced. CZK for Prime Minister Špidla, a good memory, and I do not recommend that we make it compulsory. Yes, on a voluntary basis, when a businessman says he's gonna make a deal with the financial office, rather than keep the accounts, I'm gonna pay you this amount every year, it's his decision, of course, and it's okay. And it reduces the administration. Introduce it as a mandatory institute, I'd really have a problem with that. And now, let me tell you what I had to say. There are two ways to fight a grey economy. Either by increasing restrictions, administration, and unbearably expensive controls - and unbearably expensive controls - the result is that the grey economy will shift to the black economy. [[Some Members are having a nice time together.]] Or we can fight it by reducing the administration and simplifying the levy, and then the grey economy moves into a legal economy. So far, I feel that the government is proceeding in a way that can reduce the share of the grey economy, but by moving to the black economy. And that's definitely not a targeted condition. We who are from the countryside, we who are not the one who is unidentifiable to me, which was mentioned here by Mr Bláha, about some Marťany who live in Prague and are not among people and do not understand their concerns, so we, who are from the countryside, know the typical example of rural pubs, which are open in the afternoon and then on Saturday and Sunday. That this guy's coming home from work because only the pub wouldn't support him, he'll open up at 5:00 p.m. to give his neighbors a place to go for a beer, daily sales are roughly 60... daily sales are roughly... Excuse me, but especially in the first place in front of me, when there's a loud call going on, I just can't...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u29	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. I would ask my colleague to take his place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u30	Excuse me, colleagues, I'm so sorry. I don't read it, I talk out of my head, and when someone talks to me, I just don't put it together. I'm sorry, and thank you for understanding. The daily sales of such an entrepreneur correspond to the sale of about 60 beers, 10 shots of very cheap alcohol and three drowns. If in a month he earns three thousand crowns for himself, which he gives to his wife, so she doesn't accuse him so much that nights instead of spending time with her, he serves his neighbors in the pub, that's what it's gonna take. The costs to him for both EET and the state are such that they cannot balance the possible, completely marginal tax evasion that can occur in such establishments. That is why these restaurants or hospitable facilities have also disappeared the most in the countryside and moved to the clubhouses - what we're going to talk about, somewhere these people have to meet - and moved into the black economy. It's total nonsense to be burdened with such an expensive system that they may deal with, even though I also consider it unnecessary, large businesses and chains. But burdening an establishment like this is total nonsense and costs are high above possible, in my opinion virtually zero returns for the state fiscal. I believe that the only fair solution to electronic sales record is to abolish the entire law. Because I believe that the declared revenues of the Ministry of Finance are not 100% verifiable when I say this very politely, and that the revenues that it can bring will be higher than... are exceeded not only by the financial costs on the part of the tax administrator and on the part of entrepreneurs, but also by the lower comfort of services in the countryside and by the demise of a whole range of establishments. However, I understand that there is no political will for this here, but I beg you, too, who are in favour of electronic sales records, so that you really consider that those businesses that I was talking about, these small shops in the countryside and the mini-stores in the countryside, that these obligations should be exempted. And thank you for thinking about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Now, with a proper application for discussion, Mr Jiří Dolejš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u32	Beautiful morning, dear colleagues, colleagues. If you allow a few comments on the discussion and above all at least outline the KSČM approach to this issue, because the EET in the last parliamentary term was of its kind a flagship or a display cabinet of a certain approach to fighting for good tax administration. And let's just say that this is where the camps were created, one government that loyally and relentlessly defended the original project, and then the camp of those who wanted to block things when they failed to cancel. And they even had it in their electoral programs. It is after the elections, the situation is new and let us say how to act pragmatically on this issue. The rapporteur here used the word "let's look for a way." Well, this little Taoist grip on this subject does not satisfy me particularly after this discussion that I have heard here, because I feel that the basic problem is whether we take the material and we will be talking about it here for a very long time, or whether we will proceed to the agreement in this House that EET needs to be corrected in some way is quite broad, but let's say an effective way of working out the objectives so that we do not lose unnecessary time, energy and work towards general satisfaction. [[10.10 hours]] As far as the target is concerned, I was a little bit caught up in my ears when the Minister for Government Disapproval used the word "absolutely disagree" with the example of Members who had been more in favour of abolishing the EET in recent times. I think that the parliamentary initiatives have been, are and will be, and either serve as a certain advertising of the subjects of the petitioners, or are trying to address a certain legislative vacuum. If there is no legislative vacuum here, if there is already a legislative wheel on the government, a proposal that can reach the parameters of a fairly broad consensus, I would not reject such essential expressions of inspiration for various parliamentary initiatives. But let's just say, if it's in the middle of having fun on this carrier's land, or if we're going to wait in peace for the government's legislative circle to end and we're going to get some press in our hands, which can undoubtedly be further edited. I believe, on the basis of certain historical experiences, I have seen several similar situations here, that the other path is more promising, but the more I would rather - as they say politely, not want to upset - do not want to piss off those who are already leaving the delay that EET must stomp into the country and admit that they should be directed towards certain material correction. The effect is obvious. After all, the original plan was not fulfilled anyway, the third and fourth waves were postponed, the government itself acknowledges that it will have to implement what the Constitutional Court has decided, and the debates on effects have a purpose. I think my colleague Stanjura here has considered how many expectations have been put into this, how many effects have been in the budget for 2017, and it is clear that much will not be fulfilled even in 2018. So these are definitely material remarks, just as we can ask how much they motivated the taxpayers and clients to do the so-called activity. an incentive receipt, which was a bit of a bizarre government contribution to gambling sports, but in any case, we may also see the solution in the government amendment. We hope it won't be too long. We are ready to participate in the calibration of the law and the exclusion of those obliged persons and other things that must be treated there so that we can run it from next year without, say, unnecessary debates. Of course, abstract debates can be held about the fact that bad regulation displaces the grey economy into black. Well, let's be specific, because we don't want to abolish regulation, we just want to improve it. So let's talk about which regulation is optimal. And if anyone wants to treat the little ones, protect the little ones, well, we're definitely up for it, too. And if anyone thinks that we could focus more attention on the big ones, I am not naive to read the words of my colleague Stanjura as a declaration of the importance of tax progression and even higher progressive rates for corporate tax, but, of course, we could also talk about that, but probably not on the ground of this legislative initiative. So we're more prepared for the government carrier, and that's what the position on this bill is all about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Martinů wants a factual comment on your speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u34	Good day, my dear colleagues. I would just like to refer to a World Bank study that shows that 92 percent of tax evasion is made by big players, billionaires. And I'm asking what we're going to do with them, and if it's fair enough that we're fighting this tough battle for the smallest, because of the 8 percent. That's something to think about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u35	Thank you for a very brief factual point, and Mr Dolejš also wants to respond with a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u36	I must thank you now, because I did not expect to find any understanding of our proposals in this side of the House, whether sectoral taxes on large banks or other similar solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u37	Thank you. As another duly signed up - Mr Jan Skopeček and Mr Juránek will prepare himself, who has signed up with a proper application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u38	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, colleagues. I would also like to support this proposal and ask you to send it to the next reading, where it can certainly admit some compromise. In this context, I would like to point out one problem that seems to be unrelated to the electronic record of sales, but I will explain why it makes sense to say this. The economic problem of the Czech Republic is the high flow of dividends abroad. In 2016, it was 289 billion. The koruna and, in my opinion, it was similar in the previous year. This is, of course, due to the large share of foreign capital in our economy, which is logically determined by the fact that we had a nationalized economy for almost half a century and, after 1989, simply the standard market economy, standard business without foreign capital could not have been started. But then unfortunately came the fashion of investment incentives, which once again meant tax holidays, subsidies for jobs, especially for the big corporations that came from abroad, and today we are surprised that they are running away at a time when their mothers are in crisis or in trouble, dividends, instead of reinvesting with us. It is due to the weakness of Czech capital. And I feel that it is a great task before us for several decades to work to make Czech capital grow stronger, so that it is increasingly important if possible and its share in the Czech economy grows. However, Czech capital will come from nothing but the smallest entrepreneurs. And I'm just reminding you that even the biggest foreign corporations we know today, Microsoft, Apple, were, at the beginning, small garage companies that had just become the big multinational corporations. And if we in the Czech Republic want to have Apples, Microsofts and similar companies that will be global brands someday, then we need to give a chance to those garage entrepreneurs, the smallest ones who want to try their luck. And of course, the electronic sales records are touching and bear the most costs, and they are not only carried by those who are already in business, but also by a start-up entrepreneur or student who is graduating from school and decides whether to work as a bureaucrat, whether to get employed in a state institution, in the state sector, or whether to work in a foreign corporation, or if he accidentally doesn't set up some small business, some small business, so, of course, he's doing some initial business plan, some initial balance of costs and revenues for him to start his business, which means and brings to him. Of course, when there is an increase in electronic sales records, for a number of such people, the decision may mean that they prefer not to engage in the business, that they prefer to be employed either in the foreign large corporation or in the state sector. And I think it's wrong that we should make these people easier and create conditions so as not to be afraid to start a business. We should not burden small and medium-sized entrepreneurs with this senseless regulation, because even though they are not part of the largest part of economic output in the share of GDP, they are people who take care of themselves, they do not want much from the state, they provide employment in their regions, basic services, and it has already been said here, in the countryside basic infrastructure. And I do not feel that we should destroy this backbone of the Czech economy with these regulations. So I'm going to ask you once again to support this bill, to give it a chance. I believe that in the following debate we will come to some compromise that will ensure that we give small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and start-ups a chance again and that this may be a contribution to the fact that we will one day have global companies like Apple or Microsoft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u39	Thank you, Mr Skopečka, and now if... I have an application for a general debate here, so we will give Mr Juránek the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u40	Thank you. I still haven't gotten used to the actual notes to make a speech, for one simple reason, then running away, the idea gets distracted. And I'd like to really direct it to this law right now. I was not in this Chamber of Deputies during the last parliamentary term, and at the time when this EET was being introduced, I was going through and through the South Moravian Region. I went through it, of course, from the largest city, from Brno, and I walked through it to the smallest village. And I can say that I have found within myself such a line for whom the EET should be and for whom it should not be. I have found the limit in that those who are in business should really pay the EET, and those who serve, and I have found just more in those small municipalities than in the big Brno, they really should have every possible savings and we should help them very significantly. So that's the first thing. Now there's this law. At the same time, the Senators dealt with this issue, and the government also deals with it. And I see here all of a sudden, when we take away from certain political statements that aren't much related to this law, there is one big consensus - that something needs to be done about this law. And there's really only one pitfall in this law. Yes, there are some legislative errors in this law, as it is presented, I would say that the small ones are not fully resolved, but they can all be resolved, because the only common denominator of these three laws is the search for a line on which this Chamber of Deputies agrees and which will allow a certain group - for me, I would like it to be the group that serves, not the one that is in business, but the one that actually serves, so that we can help them in a maximum way. Now I'm asking if this draft is really enough, because the real key point is only in one thing: to find the line. Here, in some way, the limit is set for the turnover of one million a year and the mandatory VAT registration. If anyone doesn't like it, they can change it at second reading. And if we approve at that definitive stage what we're going to approve here, we might as well approve what the Treasury has now discussed. I've heard different readings. I've heard 750,000, I've heard, and in this material from the government, it's that 500,000 is a lot, and I've heard 200,000 and 250,000. I beg you, the real thing, whether we decide today whether we pass this law or not, is that we don't know and we can't set the limit any other than this number. And this number is the main issue. Yes, there are ideas here, everyone approaches it differently, it has been said here, but the important thing is this number. And we can change that number in second reading and then we can agree to it. I am in favour of speeding this matter up, and I am in favour of encouraging this matter to be dealt with by this law. He's here, we have him at our disposal, and we could set the line at second reading where he is. I'm interrogating for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We now have Mr Vojtěch Munzar for the general debate. I'll read one more apology. Mr Lubomír Lubomír Volný apologizes for medical reasons until 12.00. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on my previous speakers, and I would like to say one thing that has not yet been said here, and that is what the Government's position on this proposal was. I would like to quote the two sentences that are behind them and are therefore linked: "The mandatory VAT registration when reaching the turnover limit of CZK 1 million per year is often being circled by the reporting of lower sales. According to information from the Ministry of Finance, more than 60 percent of all entrepreneurs even declare a turnover of less than half a million crowns." Are you serious, dear government? That 60 percent of entrepreneurs show half the revenue they need to register for VAT so they don't have to register? You think everyone's cheating again? These sentences show you still have the same attitude. You don't trust businessmen or you're afraid of them. A similar pejorative approach to entrepreneurs, small businessmen of the past and current governments is not to compensate for the business environment, but rather to create differences. If Mr Bláha here, through Mr President, wants to speak to someone in the spirit that he is distracted from reality, let him start with the members of his own government. There's a difference between a big company generating big profits and a small businessman who's just trying to make a simple living so he doesn't have to be dependent on the state or the employment office. Perhaps we can all figure out how much we need to dial, for example. beer or sell rolls to cover the costs of EET operation and at least a minimum profit for a businessman in a small village. I know a village in Kladensko, the village of Knovíz, where the trade ended thanks to this fight against businessmen and entrepreneurs and the culmination was EET. The practical consequence is that most residents need to get on a bus, reach the big city, and buy basic food there. That's the settlement of the business environment! Of course the big supermarkets like it, and they're on fire for it. Their competition ends in those little businessmen. But what is the true value of a small businessman? His true value is that he can take care of himself. He doesn't want anything from the state, he offers us his services, he doesn't burden our social system, he contributes to it, and he also provides the necessary service for his surroundings. And that's the kind of people you should be leading with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Yes, and a point of order, please. No, for the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I dare to make a motion to reject this amendment at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u45	I'm registering your motion to dismiss. And now I have until the debate - Mrs Schillerová, Minister of Finance. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to the individual speakers in the debate. I'll take it as fast as I can. Unfortunately, I do not see President Stanjura here, to whom I have a number of answers to his questions. Then I'll make it quick. What unions and chambers am I talking about when I say they support the Ministry of Finance and its electronic records of sales? So it is the Association of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs - 160,000 entrepreneurs, Association of Traditional Czech Trade - 7,000 retail stores, Association of Trade and Tourism - 50 000 employers. I do not need to specify the Chamber of Commerce, because that is what President Stanjura spoke of, that he is in contact with them. I even got my approval - thank you to the people coming, because I am speaking to President Stanjur, especially now I am answering questions - I have even received the approval of the President of the Association of Traditional Czech Retail to publicly say that he sent an open letter to the President of the ODS to specify for which entrepreneur the ODS speaks when he says that entrepreneurs do not want to record sales. So I named these. And we've worked with all of these, and we're working on an amendment to the Sales Recording Act. That is why we finally chose the option from those exceptions for the smallest entrepreneurs on whom consensus was made, and within a week or so I will send it to an inter-ministerial commentary procedure, because now we have discussed with them the final legislative text that will go to the inter-ministerium. [[10.30 hours]] With regard to revenues, we, like every first day of the month, have published the results of the implementation of the state budget. It was clearly stated that by the end of February 2018, the state budget was 25,8 billion in surplus. VAT increase is plus 17.4 %, which is a triple increase in government and institution consumption, and all revenue - increase plus 13.9 %. EET is involved in this growth - and this is VAT, I stress, I am aware that this is VAT - it is 6 billion. compared to the prognosis that we originally had 4.3 billion. And we have also reduced the VAT on food services, which is 0.8 billion. You asked me what the share of direct taxes was. I can't tell you at this point - logically, because tax returns are filed and taxes are paid 1. 4. 2018, where the impact will already be first and second waves, and 1. 6. for the remaining group, which it submits within the extended period. I can only give you an estimate. We have an estimate, including direct taxes of 12.7 billion, and we're actually counting that taxes could be equal to almost 7 billion. But I will tell you exactly after the income tax payments are paid in the Czech National Bank's accounts. So logically, at this point, I can't have these exact numbers. Comments. I take it the way I took notes quickly. I hope I haven't forgotten anything. I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Court's finding never said that entrepreneurs were to be exempt from CZK 1 million. He doesn't even give instructions which entrepreneurs are to be exempted. He says it should be made clear what exceptions will be introduced to the law, because they will be there once and for all and in no way will it be possible to change them otherwise than by amending the law, which is of course difficult, and we have no interest in changing the parameters of the law again. That means we want to write a good novel, we want to discuss it. That is why we are discussing it so much with representatives of business associations. The amendment will basically allow a group of entrepreneurs - and I will tell you what parameters we currently have, but I say we are ahead of the interdepartmental review procedure, so the parameters are for discussion, and I will respond to other comments from other speakers. We want to remove natural persons, primarily natural persons who do not pay VAT, and we do not want to set income or return the parameter - now I respond to Mr Juránek, that it is not about this parameter, and we have just changed the view after discussions with business associations and chambers that convinced us that this is a bad parameter. Because, for example, he's going to be an entrepreneur who's going to have 900 grand's income. CZK per year and cash payments will have 20 thousand. - like a doctor, or I don't know, I don't want to introduce any profession, choose it explicitly - and have to register digitally, that means electronically. So we're going to choose a parameter that's going to be the amount of cash payments. And we have an opinion on that, and we can continue to debate that. So we are going at this in a way other than what this amendment says, than all the other amendments, as Mr Juránek said. So it's about the parameter, but it's about the other way around, and the parameter was created after a discussion with entrepreneurs, which the law will primarily relate to. Of course, if this amendment, this amendment was approved, I am, of course, presuming some longer time horizon, so there will be more pressure for entrepreneurs to show incomes up to one million. It's not a good situation. We simply think that a comprehensive government amendment, which is discussed, which takes into account all the conclusions of the Constitutional Court, is the best solution. The figures you asked me, President Stanjur - of course I may look like one, but I'm not a walking encyclopedia, but I know a whole series of those numbers, so if I don't know some, I don't know them because we don't have them. VAT payers are 130,000 natural persons, 50,000 legal persons. I'm not able to tell you because some of them don't accept cash payments, especially legal entities only have invoicing, so they're not subject to sales records - so I'm not exactly telling you the percentage, we're not really able to do that, and I'm not even able to tell you at my best, even if I do this right now, we're just not going to find out how many of them are doing the secondary employment. This is simply a number that would have to be traced from individual files, and that would have been very difficult. The ratio of the gray economy. Numbers of the Czech Statistical Office: Construction 37 billion, small-scale, wholesale 35 billion, catering services 25 billion. These figures relate to non-notified revenue and are, of course, over the period preceding the introduction of the EET. Anyway, we're going to propose in a government amendment, or in a ministerial amendment right now, so that the third and fourth waves are introduced simultaneously if the law comes into effect. There was a comment on Croatia. About a year ago, I attended a petition for the cancellation of the EET, and I welcome the fact that I did not notice it today, so I am grateful for that, whether I look to the right or to the left of this Chamber, and that's when they invited - and we were not organizers, so we had no influence on who was invited to this public meeting, and representatives of Croatia were invited there. I think it was the Deputy Ambassador. Not to mention the fact that Croatia was quite dehonested and insulted there, for which I was personally ashamed, so of course he got off and only very briefly, I say one sentence, he said a lot more. He said he was from a broken country that probably wouldn't even have it to go back to the embassy, I would leave it unnoticed, but in particular he pointed out that Croatia, which is so often quoted in a negative sense, had a GDP growth of 3% in 2016, while the Czech Republic was worse off by a hundredth of it. So I guess it's not all gonna be like that. Now, just briefly. President Okamura mentioned a flat-rate tax. I have to agree with President Kalousek curiously here, because it really was one of the solutions. We proposed three options to the business unions, and one of them was to tie the EET exemption to the flat-rate tax. In the end, it was a very long-term intention of the Ministry of Finance. This variant has been discussed with us for various reasons - administrative, complex, there are negotiations with the Financial Administration. In the end, today's flat-rate tax, which we have in the Income Tax Act, is taking advantage of about a hundred entrepreneurs, even though we are there for this year, so we hope that they will increase, improve and mitigate certain criteria. But it would happen, there is a provision that says that there must be at least 600 crowns, and today we have a huge number of entrepreneurs of the smallest, who just legally after applying deductible items and discounts do not pay any tax. So that would certainly not be the right step, which is why I think the amendment that the Ministry of Finance is coming with is more comprehensive. And let me finish with one more piece of information. It's fallen several times, and I've been hearing it for a long time that we've been fighting the little ones, and actually the big ones aren't paying our taxes with impunity. It's not true. I am going to write again as a relatively comprehensive one for several times - we will see if the media are interested, mostly the good news is not much - to write a rather comprehensive discussion about how and what we have done in the fight against tax evasion against large corporate companies. And again, I have to repeat, let's not mix pears with apples! The fact that the company - as Mr Skopeček rightly said, has drawn foreign capital here, we have introduced investment incentives, let us discuss whether we still need them and in what dimension we have introduced tax holidays. But this capital has built up infrastructure here, employed people here, and actually makes dividends out of taxed profits. We have a dividend directive today, which we have to follow, which is actually given by European regulations, we have a whole range of restrictions here. And let's make this strictly different. This is legal. This is just legal! Let's make a difference. And if we wanted to prevent that, we'd have to introduce another restriction, but I don't think you're gonna want that, colleagues. We certainly don't want that right now. But we have to make a very strict distinction from fighting aggressive tax planning. [[10.40 hours]] I kept - I just received it last night, so I have the numbers freshly in my head - to process the Financial Administration's analysis a month ago, of course general, based on the numbers that I have the right to as Secretary and which I can easily publish, and that is actually a struggle with the so-called transfer prices - transfer pricing. We introduced, virtually. Financial administration, a mandatory annex to the tax return in 2015 already for 2014, where businessmen must actually state flows in the framework of transfer money. It's a simple precaution. It's no big deal. Thanks to this - and I have numbers, I have an analysis, and I'm going to publish it, and I'm going to tell you the numbers after economic growth is cleared - an increase in tax base of 8 percent, a reduction in loss by 35 percent. We are talking about tens of hundreds of millions when additional tax returns were immediately filed. This means, in essence, that a preventive effect has emerged and the Financial Administration has managed to target tax controls more meaningfully. We are still preparing some adjustments in this regard. Let me just briefly conclude the last sentence. We are very active in the implementation of all EU measures to combat aggressive tax planning. We have ATAD implementation in the 2019 package, we have implemented CbC reporting here, and finally you approved this amendment last year, we have a whole range of other BEPS measures, which are how we are doing in this fight. So it's one of our key priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u47	Thank you, Minister of Finance. I have a priority right here - Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u48	Thank you for the information. I didn't even want all of them now, I don't think the minister should spill all the details on demand. However, I will return to some of the figures mentioned by the Minister and say that the figures do not suggest that we should reject the bill. The number of VAT payers involved in this bill. 130,000 natural persons and 50,000 legal persons. Well, let's have some more fun reading, see if it should apply to legal persons. Me personally and our club are ready for the debate. But let's take this -- and I want to focus on the physical people, which are classics, the little ones we're talking about and whose interests we're defending here, I'm saying this quite openly and directly. 130 grand, so let's leave the VAT numbers on the side now, they don't have anything to do with it. The key question is how many of them were subject in the first and second waves of the EET group of 130,000. It is not possible for the Ministry of Finance or the General Financial Directorate to know how many of them are subject to EET. I'm sure that's from the economic activity of the 130 grand. This is a number to know exactly what group of small entrepreneurs are involved in this bill. We don't know that. I can't even tell if it's 10 percent, 20 percent, 80 percent of the 130 grand. This group is mentioned in this bill, nothing else. Madam Secretary said he expected an increase of 7 billion in income tax. Now I don't know if it's overall or in the state budget because it's shared taxes. But it's not entirely relevant. I quickly looked at the total revenue of the State from this tax for 2017. Six billion. [[The secretary is responding off the microphone.]] No, in your monthly reports that are very good for those who want to watch -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u49	I'm gonna ask you to calm down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u50	We have a total income tax on natural persons, which is divided into three items. One of these items is actually a self-employed person when I say this in a simple way so that everyone can understand what it is, and there was a total income of 6.3 billion for the state for 2017. I was just looking at the Ministry of Finance's press release from January 3rd this year. And that's all of them, including those who have or don't have EETs, including whether or not they're payers, so the legitimate question is, out of the 6.3 billions, and we already have the data, how much have the income taxes paid by VAT payers who are subject to the first and second waves of EETs. If I were to come out of the total number of payers, I'd take that group of insubordinates for the 130,000, so we're getting somewhere between 10 and 15 percent of the total number of business entities. It says somewhere that 900 thousand. has a business license, of which about half is full-time. You can also see that from a tax return. There's no way the Financial Administration doesn't know. Either you have a business tax or business tax and dependent activity. There's no way the state doesn't know. This is quite simple and also with this data very often argues that they have this admission from dependent activity also from business, or only from business. But even if I did, it's about 10 to 15 percent, and if I were to spread the tax burden on average to every businessman the same way, which, of course, is nonsense, but I don't have anything else at my disposal, it's 6.3 billion. We're getting somewhere between 630 and 900 miles. income taxes. All the bad guys. And there is an even smaller group of those who are subject to the EET, and the others are not. And that's what we're discussing today. No one can seriously think that this group will pay 7 billion thanks to EET. Direct taxes more when the total sum is 6.3 billion. for 2017. And I agree that, in fact, at the beginning of July, we will have the 2018 figures because both at the end of March and at the end of June, the legal date for the tax return is legal. So we're talking about a much lower amount. If one of you remembers at least roughly, or most of us remember roughly how much the total revenue and total expenditure of the state budget are, we're talking about hundreds of millions. And now let's talk about how much the hundreds of millions will increase if the EET gets any benefit. And if that were the 16 percent that the Minister said about VAT, which, of course, will not be the case with income tax, we are talking about tens of millions more, and against that you have a group of 130 thousand entrepreneurs who have unnecessary administrative costs from the EET. So I'm asking you, where's the ratio on the side of the Treasury and the government when we're talking about such small tax revenues? I admit that I'm simplifying now, I'm saying the numbers roughly, but in order to comment and interpret them correctly, we need those numbers from the Ministry of Finance. That's logical, because they can be different. I don't think it was an order, but I certainly didn't give the exact numbers. I'm aware of that. But if we refuse, we probably won't get to the numbers because there's no point in discussing them. That is why I would like us to release this to the second reading, so that the Committee on Budgets asks the Minister for these statistics, I think they really exist or can be found relatively easily, and then let us discuss the specific implications of the approval or non-approval of this bill. If we throw it in the trash with a novel coming up, the novel's about something else. The amendment is about expanding the EET to other fields of activity, let's just say. Well, it is, because if we don't expand it to other activities, we don't need a third and a fourth wave. Now I'm talking about economic activities that are subject to or are not subject to EET. If we don't accept any more amendments, the EET will have those who are in the first and second wave and no one else. If we accept it, another group of entrepreneurs will come to it according to economic activity. If the secretary says it won't spread to other entrepreneurs, it's good news for me, but I don't believe it. What good would a novel do? It could then only specify the procedure for granting exemptions. I understand. That's just the way it is. It's a legitimate political opinion, we have a different opinion, and I respect that. But we're not really talking about a major state budget outage, and on the other hand, we can help tens of thousands of entrepreneurs, the smallest. [[10.50 hours]] I say, we're ready to have a debate, to distinguish, if necessary, in the bill of a natural person and a legal person when we're talking about the non-disciples. Once again, if we take the statistics and their direct taxes, we're going to figure out how much this is going to be. So I would ask that we throw away the ideological glasses at this point - so I did not deliberately talk about the abolition of the EET as a whole, the debate belongs elsewhere, it is not part of this bill - and I tried to really discuss it in detail. If most of us, when we all have the numbers on the table, consider that the blackout is too big, that the benefit of shutting down the business is worse for the state than a possible blackout, then it will still be decided by the third reading. If we reject it today, there's no point in going back to those numbers because it's just an academic debate and we're gonna be overwhelmed by other bills. And now only to fight the big ones. As citizens' democrats, we do not claim that the government does nothing about tax evasion in the big ones. It is almost always the implementation of the European directive, yet there is no other option. But Madam Secretary, I remember, too, I would say legendary debates on the budget committee on the control of koruna bonds. If it weren't for opposition and public opinion pressure, the position of Chief Financial Administration would have remained the same, which told us a year ago that he didn't actually know how to control it, that he couldn't actually have said after a few months that they already had tens of millions of measured taxes, dozens of criminal charges. This is the right one, these are the right procedures that the opposition has supported and proposed. So tax evasion is bad from small ones so big. Logically it's supposed to be to focus on the big ones because there are absolute numbers there are larger numbers. When I was talking about tax optimization, I'm aware, and I'm claiming it's legal. That's legal. And the more complicated the tax system, the more exceptions, the more subsidies, the better they are, because those who legally allow them to use all the corners of the tax system in accordance with the law, they're just better off than the little ones who don't have the financial resources. So, colleagues and colleagues, consider whether a few tens of millions of crowns of hypothetical increases in direct taxes are worth more on those bowls than the fact that tens of thousands of the smallest entrepreneurs will be taken away from one of the many responsibilities. I know the Minister doesn't like to hear it, but if he reads the dissenting position of the five judges of the Constitutional Court, and now I'm going to cancel their conclusion as a whole. I think it says a lot about the role of the smallest entrepreneurs in society. Not only economic, but sociological. How they contribute to the quality of life. At the same time, it says how many duties in all areas, not just taxes, to be fair, are not by far the only obligations that come down on the smallest entrepreneurs today and daily. Let's try and help them out a little bit. I have not studied in detail the political programmes of our political competition before the House elections. And I dare say... [[A voice from the diaper.]] President Faltýnek says so. [[amused]] I believe that because they have an opinional agreement programed with all parties, whether with communists, SPD or ODS. That's for sure. If you don't have a program, then you'll read the others, as Chairman Faltýnek said, he's a good student, and then you've got a match. But I was joking. I mean, I believe that none of the parties in their program had written that it would make the business environment difficult or vice versa. I'd say everyone says they're gonna simplify the business environment. This bill simplifies it for the smallest ones who do not have the benefits of an employment relationship, they do not have the benefits of benefits, who are always at work and who are thus keeping the business alive. So please, let's help them. Let's talk in second and third reading about whether this is the right way. We believe it is. And we want to discuss specific numbers with you and convince you of the correctness of our opinion. Sixty-six Members who signed this proposal, and that is far from all who support it, at that time simply signed it, are not at all few. So try not to throw it away at first reading and come with us to debate the statistics, over the income of direct and indirect taxes, and let's try to make it easier for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u51	I thank Mr Stanjur. So I don't have anyone for the general debate, I don't even have any factual remarks, so I am ending this general debate. I'll ask the plaintiff and the rapporteur if they're interested in the final reading. [[performances]] So first, the plaintiff's representative, Mr. Rakušan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Only for a very short time. Thank you for the debate that has been conducted in a very factual way. After all, we heard from the Minister that the Ministry itself realizes that it is necessary to set new parameters for the functioning of electronic sales records in the Czech Republic. That's what we're happy to hear, of course. What we offer is a quick, functional solution that really helps. It will help the smallest entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic, help businessmen in villages, help owners and operators of inn facilities, shops. And it is simply a solution that deserves to be sent to another debate, to a second and third reading in the Chamber of Deputies. I want to point out once again - today we are not voting on the fact that the law should start to apply. You will only allow your vote to refer to the second reading of another discussion. Once again, I would like to point out that this is a joint proposal by six parliamentary clubs, signed by 66 Members. So the extent to which this amendment represents the large electoral group is significant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u53	Thank you. I'm gonna read the apologies now. I ask Mr Juránek just a moment to wait. I have here an apology from Professor Ivan Jáč for personal reasons and it will be today by 10:30. Then we have an apology from Mr Jiří Kobza from 10.00 to 12.00 for work reasons. We have here an apology from the President of the House Radek Vondráček from 10:30 to 13:00 for work reasons. And then we have an apology from Minister Robert Pelikán today from 12.00 to the end of the day for attending the memorial assembly to honor the memory of the victims of the Romani Holocaust in Brno, which the Minister will attend with the Prime Minister. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u54	Thank you. I will allow myself only briefly to sum up this debate. A total of 16 Members and the Minister spoke in this debate. The other thing - I have to get back to finding some boundaries. Madam Secretary has indicated the government's path. I dare say, based on what was said here. This proposal is supported by six political parties, but the debate has shown that this issue is also a matter of great agreement for those who do not support at the moment. All that was said here was to reject the proposal and we will have to vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-07-ps2017-007-06-002-015.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We would therefore proceed with this, because we have completed the final words, the vote on the proposals tabled. I have a suggestion here. Yes, I have an application for a check-out, so I'm gonna have you all checked out. I will wait until the number of Members has settled. I shall repeat once again the proposal made by Mr Kubíček. It's a motion to dismiss this law. So let's see if we're settled... the MPs are still jumping in. Well, I think we're settled. There's someone else jumping in. So I'm gonna do it again. We have a motion to dismiss. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of rejecting the law raises his hand and pushes the button. Whoever opposes the rejection of the law raises his hand and pushes the button. The motion to dismiss was rejected. [[Let's hear it from the Members on the right.]] So we have here - I'll just repeat - vote number 62, registered, I didn't have enough to read it, I'm sorry. Okay, back up, yes. Voting number 62, 161 Members voted in favour of 77 Members, against 77 Members, and 7 Members abstained. The motion to dismiss was rejected. [[11.00 hours]] We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? No. We will take the vote. I shall repeat once again - the Organising Committee has proposed ordering the draft to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. Initiating vote. Those in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Voting 63. Registered 161 Members, for 158, versus zero, delayed 3. The result was accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order this proposal to the next Committee. So we can end this point. I'm shutting him down. We'll proceed to the next point. It's...
