ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-023-056.u1	56. Report on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and its support in 2016 /house print 28/ I ask the Minister of Industry and Trade, Mr Tomáš Hüner, to present this press. And the rapporteur will take his seat at the rapporteur's table. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-023-056.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, the report submitted on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and its support in 2016, which is this rather strong brochure, was drawn up on the basis of Act No. 47/2002 Coll., on the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises. [[shows]] In summary, the report informs on the development of selected economic indicators of small and medium-sized enterprises in 2016 compared to the previous period and also contains information on aid granted to small and medium-sized enterprises from national and European Union funds. It also includes data for individual ministries providing support to small and medium-sized enterprises. In 2016, more than 1.1 million legal and natural persons were engaged in business activities, while the share of small and medium-sized enterprises in the total number of active business entities was 99,8 %. It is worth mentioning the share of small and medium-sized business employees in the total number of employees of the entire business sector, which was 59.1 %. The share of SMEs in total imports in 2016 was 39,1 per cent and the share of SMEs in total exports was 30 per cent. However, small and medium-sized enterprises often enter the nature of their production as subcontractors of large enterprises, so that, if large enterprises export, these sub-deliveries enter external trade statistics as exports of large enterprises. There was a slight decrease in investments by small and medium-sized enterprises, which amounted to CZK 384.5 billion in 2016, which is CZK 16.3 million less than in 2015, that is 4.1 %. The share of small and medium-sized enterprises in investment in the business sector amounted to 57,4% in 2016, which represents a reduction of 1,7 % compared to 2015. I would like to mention that the report also deals with support programmes aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises. For example, in the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness, in 2016, CZK 2,9 billion was decided on subsidies for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Let me give you a few numbers to draw the OP PIK. While the report presented shows drawdowns in March 2017 only at CZK 221,4 million, so as at 31. The 12th of the same year it was 7.99 billion crowns. Small and medium-sized enterprises must cope with great competition, administrative burdens, low availability of skilled workers and experienced managers. Businesses see as problematic also increasing costs and difficult access to financing, especially for new and starting companies. On the basis of the above, I want to confirm the commitment of the Ministry of Industry and Trade that we will focus on supporting innovative activities, exports, energy areas, making development and operational funding available and reducing the administrative burden on entrepreneurs in the next period. Finally, I want to inform that the report on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and its support in 2016 was approved by the Government of the Czech Republic by its resolution No. 619 of 4 September 2017 Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-023-056.u3	Thank you. The Economic Committee's resolution was delivered as press 28/1. I ask the rapporteur of this committee, Mr Munzar, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and also to present a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-023-056.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, hello. Small and medium-sized enterprises form an important part of our national economy. According to the report, there were 1, 144,000 small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in 2016, 881 000 natural persons. For this reason, we should be extremely interested in this report, and we have also been extremely interested in the Economic Committee and devoted almost two hours to it. [[17.40 hours]] The report describes in its analysis part the position of small and medium-sized enterprises for the Czech economy on the basis of economic data on about ten pages, as the Minister said, from the comprehensive report. The minister said one number here, and I'll repeat it. The share of employees of SMEs in the total number of employees of the business sector in the Czech Republic in 2016 was 59.1 %. This shows how small and medium-sized enterprises are crucial to the creation of added value and employment in our country. The report describes the business environment and the reduction of administrative burdens on two sides and administrative, subsidy, export and regional support from the State on 71 pages, i.e. 75 per cent of this report. I will then comment even more on this in the general debate. The briefing of the administrative burden on entrepreneurs and very detailed in the description of redistribution shows the public administration's approach to business. In other words, redistribution is more important for the state than the administrative burden on entrepreneurs. A positive aspect of the report is a detailed description of individual programmes and activities aimed at supporting small and medium-sized business projects. The largest amounts of direct financial support were provided from the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation and from the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness. However, we are talking here that about 0.06% of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in 2016 have been supported in this way. However, all the aid described in this report lacks an assessment of the effectiveness of public funds issued and their actual impact on the growth of the economy. The Economic Committee, in its negotiations on this report, therefore, addressed what is missing in this report and what such reports should contain in the coming years to become a relevant basis for our future decisions and also for the decision-making of the government and not merely an inventory, description and overview. For example, the report does not contain a description of the impact of major legislative changes in 2016, such as the introduction of control reports, the introduction of the first EET wave, etc. At the same time, the report does not contain a description of the impact of the administrative burden and control activities of the state administration on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. For this reason, the Economic Committee adopted the following accompanying resolution: "Economic Committee Calls on the Ministry of Industry and Trade to develop, in the preparation of further reports on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and their support, a part of the business environment, taking into account the annual comparison of the administrative burden on entrepreneurs, to develop the impact of the newly adopted legislation for 2016 in the business environment, to specify the number of information obligations of entrepreneurs and to complement the evaluation of the effectiveness of individual SME support programmes; Asks the Ministry of Industry and Trade to monitor, where possible, the development of the business environment in long-term trends of 5-10 years.' The report addresses the business environment and the administrative burden at a minimum, which was the biggest handicap of this report. Only reference is made to the Ministry of Industry and Trade material Information on reducing the administrative burden on entrepreneurs for 2016, which shows that the overall administrative burden on entrepreneurs arising from the legislation and information obligations affecting entrepreneurs represented an incredible amount of more than CZK 71 billion in 2016. The most burdensome areas include the payment of taxes and business conditions themselves, which means information obligations. The Economic Committee dealt with the administrative burden of entrepreneurs in the discussion and adopted the following accompanying resolution on my proposal: "The Economic Committee asks the Government of the Czech Republic to draw up and submit a plan to reduce the administrative burden on business for the period 2018-2020." We consider this to be extremely important for the promotion of entrepreneurship and for the positive development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Despite the reservations on the content of the report, the Economic Committee recommended taking note of the report, because it seemed more appropriate for the Government and the Ministry of Industry and Trade to address the 2017 report and, in particular, the plan to reduce the administrative burden. For this reason, we have adopted in the Economic Committee the accompanying resolutions I have presented to you, and therefore the Economic Committee recommends the following resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which I will read in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-023-056.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate to which the rapporteur has declared himself, so if he is ready, he can speak. I don't have any more applications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-023-056.u6	I took one more word because there are things I cannot say as rapporteur, but I want to say them for myself. The report on small and medium-sized enterprises, that's this union. [[It shows about a two-centimeter bundle of paper.]] Most of this volume concerns subsidies - how much is being allocated, how much money is being taken to taxpayers for individual projects - without assessing efficiency. From this report, this focuses on the most important - the administrative burden of small and medium-sized enterprises. [[shows one sheet of paper]] In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, we have to change the state administration's mind. It is the task of this Chamber of Deputies, it is a task for me and the Economic Committee and the Sub-Committee on the Business Environment to change our approach, because the subsidies actually draw a large minimum of entrepreneurs and cannot build on subsidies the economic development of small and medium-sized enterprises, but we must maintain freedom of entrepreneurship, reduce regulation, reduce information obligations, reduce the administrative burden so that small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of our national economy, can develop themselves and entrepreneurs can devote themselves to what they have, that is, services for their surroundings. We want entrepreneurs to be accountants, taxpayers, lawyers, occupational safety inspectors and so on. When the inspection comes, every official knows in detail the duty of his field, and we want businessmen to know all this as well as to offer us their best services. If you go to a hairdresser, you won't ask if he knows the taxes or if he knows the safety of the job, but if he can cut your hair well. So first, we should ask them for the best service. The message I read here is just an inventory. Very detailed, but it's still just a list of grant programs. Indeed, support for small and medium-sized enterprises is particularly in reducing administrative and bureaucratic burdens. I hope that the government, regardless of its final composition, will present us with a plan to reduce the administrative burden, as the Economic Committee has decided at its meeting, and in particular it will start to implement the plan to reduce the administrative burden, because this is what our economy and small and medium-sized businesses need as salt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-023-056.u7	Thank you. I have no further applications for the general debate, but I have Mr Dolejš's factual comment. [[He doesn't want to get out.]] He's downloading, so I'm gonna erase him, and if the applications aren't for the general debate, I'm gonna end it. I will ask the final words after the general debate. Not interested. I am opening up a detailed debate and please the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-023-056.u8	The Economic Committee's proposal reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic takes note of the report on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and their support in 2016.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-023-056.u9	Thank you. I do not have any further applications for a detailed debate, so we will vote. I'm gonna ask you about the final words, but I assume everything's been said. That's right. And the motion for a resolution was made on a microphone. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with the motion for a resolution. Who's against it? It's number 147, registered 153, for 141, against no one. This proposal was adopted. And I'm done with point 56. I thank both the Minister and the rapporteur. [[17.50 hours]] Point 57. That's what it is.
