ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-011-025.u1	25. Government bill on experts, expert offices and expert institutes / House print 72/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-011-025.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll make this brief, we have seven minutes. The proposed bill is an extremely important change in our legal order, because expert activity is one of the key moments in the whole structure of justice, although it does not look that way at first sight. In all matters of expertise, judges turn to experts or work with experts and basically do not have the authority to examine them in substance because they are not experts in the field themselves, so they rely on what is in the assessment. The finding of justice thus fatally depends on the quality of expert opinions, on the fact that they are professionally well processed, on the fact that they are genuinely impartial. Unfortunately, our law on characters and interpreters does not absolutely meet the importance or requirements that we should have on this sector due to this importance. It is a law that has been a good 50 years old, it is a law that has undergone only a minor retouch since 1990 and which offers virtually no guarantee that the expert will not abuse his situation, that the expert will be a true expert. For this reason, there is nothing left but to prepare a completely new draft, it is a whole package of laws, it is a law on experts, especially the law on interpreters and especially another law that amends the regulations related to it. The basis is that order is made in the fields and sectors, that order is made in the approach to this activity, that a system of control of the work of experts is established so that every expert, respectively. his work was checked at least once every five years by other experts in the field, so that he could not or would not be afraid to manipulate those expert opinions. Ladies and gentlemen, I know very well, because for four years I've been dealing with this, it's an extremely controversial subject, because the expert community is very broad, the interests in this community are cute, other interests have an expert in medicine, others in the field of valuation, others in a field such as philately. What we have presented or presented is a compromise. At the same time, it is clear to me that he will also admit this compromise if you release it for further reading, further changes. We are ready for them, we are open to them, we have started the negotiations, and we expect further adjustments during the second reading. I would like to support this proposal now at first reading and look forward to a constructive debate in other readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-011-025.u3	Thank you and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Helena Válková. Please, you have four minutes, approx.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-011-025.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I see it's a challenge today. It is difficult to evaluate, the work that has now landed on our benches, other than reform. In this regard, I fully agree with the Minister of Justice, and it is also part of the programming statement. And I know very well from the cases that I had before I started my career as a Member, even after individual citizens are addressing me with their problems, that we need this reform, and that if we succeed, the citizens of this country will not forget it in the best sense of the word, because the current standards and regime under the law of 67 is long ago anachronic and does not meet the needs of modern society or the needs of a fair trial, if you allow me to say something with exaggeration. The problem is, but the Minister here said it openly and confessed to it, I'm not surprised at all, I was the minister before him, and I know that this was a tough one, that the bill presented is not optimal, that we will still have to change a number of its parameters. One for all - privileged status of current expert offices, institutes, unclear status of expert offices, too strict disciplinary proceedings in relation to experts and many others. I'd hate to be unsystematic here right now, but there's nothing left for me within four minutes. So, yes, let us take account of this responsibly, let us apply all the comments and hope that during the legislative process, where I will also propose, as rapporteur, an extension of at least 20 days, i.e. 20 days versus 60, 80 days between first and second reading, if we release him to second reading, which I hope, too, when we have heard the Minister's words here that he will meet and that he will work together with his department on the work of working on the complex amendments that Members will submit, let us hope, by the first reading, that, in the first reading, this law will eventually obtain our consensus. My colleagues and colleagues are already warning me to quit, so I am.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-011-025.u5	Thank you. And now we have 12.59, so I guess I'm not gonna open a general debate and wait here for a second or... [[A deal off the mic.]] So I open a general debate and then we interrupt it, so please, Mr Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-011-025.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, rapporteur, gentlemen of the Ministers, it is 13 o'clock, we will probably not say much more in this general debate. But I will say briefly before we interrupt the general debate -- the law is not good and I will definitely propose that it be redesigned. [[I'm afraid I must interrupt you.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-25-ps2017-013-04-011-025.u7	So that's your suggestion... [[Leaving Member Ondráček out of the alley: You've already interrupted me, I'll tell you next time.]] Okay. So you'll say it next time. Okay. I don't have to mark it here. I interrupt this point. Now, let's open up a point that was firmly placed at 13 o'clock today,
