ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-004-050.u1	50. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on cooperation in the fight against crime signed on 7 June 2017 in Hanoi /German press 37/ - second reading We're at second reading, i.e. I think we're going to vote on the acceptance of the treaty. At the rapporteur's table is Mr. Interior Minister Lubomír Metnar, I also see my colleague Králíček, and so we can begin. I'm asking the Minister if he wants the opening word at second reading. Yes, it is. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-004-050.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the area of police cooperation is currently not contractually regulated in relations with Vietnam. The purpose of the contract presented is to provide the security authorities with the necessary legal framework for effective cooperation in the fight against the most serious forms of crime, to lay down the basic rules for their contacts and the principles for the management of the information transmitted. The contract shall contain standard provisions on the extent and forms of cooperation in the institutions responsible for its implementation, the requirements of requests for cooperation, the possibilities of non-cooperation, the possibilities of transmitting liaison officers, the transfer and protection of personal data and classified information and the reimbursement of costs for the exchange of such information. Last but not least, it gives the Czech Party the opportunity to share this information provided by the Vietnamese Party by other EU Member States or within the Schengen area without any additional consent. The contract shall be negotiated as intergovernmental at the express request of the Vietnamese Party on the outside. From the point of view of national law, this is a Treaty of the Presidential category, which was submitted after signature to both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic to give their consent to ratification and subsequently to ratify the President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-004-050.u3	I thank the Minister of the Interior Lubomír Metnar and ask the Foreign Committee rapporteur, Mr Robert Králíček, to justify the resolution of the committee delivered to you as House Press 37/1. Mr. Rapporteur... I will give you my word in a moment, because I will ask the House for peace! Ladies and gentlemen, please discuss outside the agenda in the lobby. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-004-050.u4	So good evening, everyone. After the justification of Deputy Minister of the Interior JUDr. . Jiří Nováček, news report by Robert Králíček and after the debate by the Foreign Committee I. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Treaty between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on cooperation in the fight against crime signed on 7 June 2017 in Hanoi; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of the discussion of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-004-050.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. I'm saying I don't have a written application for it. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. Do I see Mr. Jurečka? No? Are you reporting, Mr. Ambassador? Please. Mr Marian Jurečka in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-004-050.u6	Thank you. I want to take advantage of the opportunity that we have this contract here, because they are Czech companies - at least I know of one particular region of my region, from Olomouc Region, from Přerov, which has a long-term problem protecting its investment in Vietnam in rock mining. The problem has been going on for years. Not only I, but also some other Members who are in this Chamber of Deputies, for example, just behind the KSČM, have been there several times and we have tried to help this company. However, the case, as far as I know, has not led to any positive outcome recently. So I would like to appeal here from this point of view that the current government should advocate that if we are already here to ratify such a treaty, these things are also being implemented in practice so that the Czech companies investing there in the millions of crowns have really protected their investments and that, at the time of the trial, the local courts really carry out the trial and the process transparently and impartially. So thank you for that. And I'm prepared to provide more detailed information on this case. I don't want to name this firm specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-06-12-ps2017-013-09-004-050.u7	Yes. I thank Mr Jurečka. Anyone else in the debate? If no one, I am done with the debate. We shall proceed to the vote on the resolution proposed by the Foreign Committee, that is to say, the part which is for the Chamber of Deputies. Is anyone asking for a review of the motion for a resolution, i.e. that we ratify the treaty? He doesn't. We can therefore proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. I have begun voting number 195, and I ask who is in favour of concluding this treaty. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 195, from 173 Members present for 144, against no one. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 50. At the same time, I note the apology of Mr Jiří Mihola from 18 o'clock until the end of the meeting day from today's meeting, or his replacement in the reporting report will be recorded in a timely manner. Let's continue with the point.
