ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u1	25. Government bill amending Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and methods of its solution (Insolvency Act), as amended /German press 71/ - First reading Under the authority of the Government, this proposal will be made by the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, let me briefly state in my opinion a very important amendment to the insolvency law, which has already been submitted to the last House and is again presented without change to the House of this House. At first, what the novel isn't. This amendment is not a proposal for a debt amnesty, that is, something that would one-timely forgive debts to people who have not paid them. This amendment is not even a zero option, i.e. that after some time someone would get rid of their debts without paying anything. What is this novel? This amendment is a necessary, much-needed chance, a second chance for people who, by their own fault, or for some external cause, have fallen into a debt trap. Thus, in a situation where they are never able to stop the increase in their debts, let alone repay these debts, and are now doomed to de facto economic death, to remain out of the law for life, outside the official economy, because any entry back into the official economy is punished by the fact that all the assets that appear to them are taken away without any positive effect on the amount of their debt. What do we offer these people with this novel? It's no miracle, ladies and gentlemen. It's nothing to look forward to, as I sometimes hear. We offer them that their necessary assets will be monetized and then they will have to pursue the satisfaction of their creditors for seven years, making every effort that can reasonably be demanded of the debtor under the control of the insolvency administrator, and for those seven years everything, except the so-called non-recognizable minimum, which varies according to the situation between six and nine thousand crowns per month, to pay the insolvency administrator to pay the debts to creditors. If they do that and pay back those seven years, after these seven hard years, the rest of their debt will go away. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, this is not a zero option. Those people will not only always have to meet the conditions at all, pay at least the remuneration of the insolvency administrator and the other costs of the proceedings and the preferential claims that are maintenance claims, but, as those payments are set up for how much minimum wage is required for us, it is clear that anyone who receives even a minimum wage will always pay something to those creditors. It's just something isn't going to be limited to any percent towards the principal. Such a solution, in a much milder form to debtors, is known not only by Europe, but also by America. Austria was the last country to have some limit on the percentage satisfaction of creditors. Austria canceled it last year. None of these countless countries report any problems that we hear about in this public debate - some sort of moral hazard or mass abuse of something like this. After all, experience with today's adjustment, where the condition for entry into debt is the probability of repaying at least 30% of the claims, shows that the adjustment is not substantially abused, because only about 10 percent of the debtors who enter today's process will also pay off the 30 percent. The others, 90 percent of the others, pay back more, and often considerably more than the 30 percent. So it's obvious that the debtors are really trying to pay you back as much as they can. There is no reason why this should change with the new adjustment. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm assuming there's going to be some debate right now. Maybe I'll comment on that, too. But I beg you in the name of all those who have no perspective today, release this law into second reading. After all, we can adjust a number of parameters of this law in the committees. But these people deserve a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u3	Thank you, Minister. Please the rapporteur, who is Mr Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me, as rapporteur, to present a proposal for an amendment to Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and methods of its resolution, insolvency law. This amendment to the insolvency law, which we will discuss as House press number 71. It's a standard we don't have before us for the first time. After all, I, as rapporteur, did not have it as rapporteur for the first time. The Government has already submitted this bill to the Chamber of Deputies in the last parliamentary term. However, the legislative process has not been completed and the debate on it has been interrupted at first reading, namely on 19 May last year. Unfortunately, it did not come to committee either. The proposal, which the Government of Andrej Babiš is now resubmitting in resignation, is identical with the proposal from the last parliamentary term. By submitting it, the government responds to the current situation, which does not allow significant parts of the borrowers to address their debt situation, because their debts over time have reached such a level that they are no longer paid by themselves by instalments of their income or by proceeds from the sale of their assets. So these people are unable to solve their problem. According to the petitioners, this amendment is intended to lend help to overdebted people to break out of the debt trap and return to an active economic life. The amendment therefore proposes, above all, a change in the conditions for entry into debt relief and allows access to so-called. the remedial solution of bankruptcy to a wider range of debtors. The condition for debt relief should no longer be the assumption of a minimum 30% satisfaction of unsecured creditors over a period of five years. In extreme cases - I repeat, in extreme cases - after a new seven-year period, the court will be able to debt anyone who - I quote - makes every effort that can be demanded fairly. In connection with the release of debt relief conditions, the amendment contains a number of related provisions and provides for some procedural issues that have proved to be unsatisfactory in practice. At random, insolvency administrators are prescribed new supervisory obligations for debtors, a new adjustment is introduced to the relationship of insolvency proceedings and the settlement of the joint property of spouses, and cases are anchored in which the debt relief will not be allowed, for example for debtors with particularly high debts or those who have a dishonest intention. It is proposed that, in justified cases, the insolvency court, on a proposal from the insolvency administrator, may impose on the debtor an obligation to use the service of professional social advice. The insolvency law also includes new legal institutes, such as the interruption of the debt relief process and the extension of the debt relief process. In the explanatory memorandum to the Law, the petitioner stresses that, even with the effectiveness of the new legislation, the debtor is expected to have to meet its obligations to the maximum extent possible and to fulfil certain obligations in order to debt it. In other words, he assures that new rules will not be free of charge for debtors. They will be redeemed under strict supervision for a specified period of debt relief. According to the petitioner, the law contains sufficient safeguards to prevent it being bypassed and abused by dishonest debtors. If the amendment is approved, the petitioner promises an increase in the number of debt reliefs that debtors pass successfully, a reduction in the number of enforcement proceedings and a reduction in illegal work that currently carries a number of negative phenomena. Ladies and gentlemen, so briefly to the content of the amendment. Although the bill is presented by the government without confidence, it is, in my view, a necessary legal standard and I believe that across the political spectrum, we will be willing to deal with the proposal. The latest public data available on debt in the Czech Republic are alarming. There are currently more than 860,000 people among us who are burdened with execution. Nearly half a million people are burdened not only with one execution, but with three or more execution procedures. 150,000 people have even more than ten executions. I am convinced that the role of politicians is not to indebt our citizens because the reasons that lead to the debt can be very diverse and diverse. Many people have not been caught in debt by their own irresponsibleness, but for objective reasons that they could not simply influence. As politicians, therefore, our job is to look for solutions, a solution that will help these people to return to normal life, start working and care for their families in an impenetrable situation. He'll benefit from the whole company, which means all of us. Certainly greater than if we allow thousands of people to endlessly and with no prospect of improvement to stumble on the edge of poverty. I want to express my conviction that we can all agree on this, either from left or right positions. At the same time, however, it must also be admitted that critical voices were also heard at the time of this amendment in the previous parliamentary term. Comments were made by some government ministries, creditors' organizations or municipalities. The Supreme Court has also expressed its concerns about the implementation of the law in practice, and there have also been quite serious doubts as to whether the courts will be able to face the expected upheaval of new debt proposals. And I assume that these comments will accompany the debate of the amendment during this parliamentary term as well, and I consider it natural that we will not be passing them away, but we will deal with them very honestly, as I suppose, not only on the grounds of a guarantee constitutional law committee, but also on its subcommittee, the subcommittee on the issues of execution, insolvency and debt, and also on other committees to which the law may be ordered. I also believe that it would not be a matter of organizing certain seminars, colloquia, no matter what we call it, where both creditors' representatives and debtors' representatives would be invited to share their views. I believe that the outcome of the debate in the Chamber of Deputies will be a law that will restore dignity to overdebted people and give them a chance to start over. However, this aid must be balanced. It must be balanced by sufficient safeguards against possible abuse to the detriment of creditors. I believe that at the end of the third reading, we will adopt a law that will be fair and fair to both sides. Given the scope of the proposed legislation, as well as the importance and expected live debate, and in its form, I propose extending the time limits for committee discussions by 20 days to 90 days under Rule 91 of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. For the record, please repeat this proposal in the debate that I am opening now. And before I give the floor with a proper application, with priority rights, Vice-President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few comments on the draft debt relief law under discussion. The obvious thing is that we're heading in the right direction, and I'm glad that there's finally a demand for both the public and our SPD movement to address the systemic debt traps. This solution must include the possibility for any person who finds himself in a debt trap to get out of it legally at an acceptable time, under realistic conditions. The current concept of a solid entry barrier that discriminates against the poorest classes of the population is unique in both Europe and the Western world, and it is right that the amendment to the law is finally abolishing this barrier. It's a written German model, which is not a criticism. It's always better to copy something that works than to invent something untested at all costs. There's praise. [[16.20 hours]] As far as I know, for example, with execution solutions, German executives have taxative relatively low flat rates. This amendment provides that, in the event of debt write-off, the amount of the remuneration of the number of applications re-examined shall be 25 per cent of the amount laid down in the implementing act for the remuneration of the number of claims audited in bankruptcy. May the Minister correct me if necessary, but does this mean that the insolvency administrator is entitled to increase the debt by a quarter and to withdraw this amount as a priority? If so, it's wrong. Furthermore, we lack in the law the exemption of remuneration for the insolvency administrator from payment of VAT, because here the reward increases by another fifth at present, on which it will parasite the state. And just so we're clear, it's about the money that the creditor doesn't get as a result. We are the first and long-term fighters to help people in executions and people in unsolvable debt traps for years. But we've never, I repeat, fought against creditors. On the contrary, any debt settlement must aim to ensure that the creditor is satisfied to the maximum and at the same time that the debtor is not destroyed. In practice, this means a ceiling of interest on all surcharges or periodic penalty payments and charges to be paid on debts. It means a de facto ban and an end to interest rates, whatever they are named in practice. That, in our opinion, is something that needs to be enforced. It also means a clear ceiling on the fees to the bailiffs as well as insolvency administrators. The percentage reward doesn't make sense. For example, an administrator who deals with a hundred small debts of a total amount of 100,000 will receive less than the one who manages a single debt of 10 million? Most unsolvable debts arise by collecting multiple amounts of fines, periodic penalty payments and judgments on existing debts. And those often make marginal amounts an unsolvable problem. Another problem is that people have to pay first and foremost these opinions and the principal, i.e. the debt itself only pays in the end. In practice, this means that the debtor is bankrupt, all the money is received by the bailiff or insolvency administrator and the creditor gets nothing. Unfortunately, this is a shameful practice that we should address in priority, and unfortunately, even in this law, I do not see any indication of a systemic solution. In any case, we take it as a good attempt to go in the right direction, but it's just a small piece in the mosaic that doesn't solve debt traps systemically and in general. There is a need for comprehensive system assistance to people in debt traps. Part of the solution must also be the law on usury, i.e. setting up a clear percentage of the credit reward, if you want a ceiling from which higher performance is odd. As I was saying, it is also necessary to propose an interest freeze on the penalty immediately after the court decision on the debt. It would also be good to cancel the state's VAT on executions and insolvency. And as I have already pointed out, it would be good to have security for creditors, that is, first repayment of principal and then only fees and execution costs. It would certainly only help to reverse the repayment system, in the wake of the fact that it would be good to improve the possibility for people to ask for forgiveness of the debt of the state, these are the various contributions, for example, after paying the principal of the debt. Today, this possibility is very limited by legal loops and deadlines when it is possible to apply. Of course, the system solution should also include the return of executors to the judicial system if you want to nationalize executors. That means the executor is a paid clerk, not a businessman with debts. To discuss, and these are all the proposals of our SPD movement, there would certainly be the introduction of free legal aid for people trapped in debt. I think that would be a good suggestion, or it would be a good idea to enforce it. As an ex-offo lawyer for criminals, the debtor should actually have under some conditions that can't get out of the debt trap or really threatens an unsolvable debt trap, so he might have the right to a lawyer, because we all know that many debts and executions are growing because people simply can't defend themselves, that they just don't know it. Finally, I would like to stress that any aid from the state will certainly come back to us economically, because people in execution, as we know, are working black, companies are also burdened with execution, so people are not motivated to work officially. So, for us, for the SPD movement, we will, of course, support the release of this proposal further, but we have a whole range of proposals here, and I hope that we will work towards one of them in the debate regarding support across the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u7	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to Mr Bauer, I shall read the apologies. Mr Pražák apologizes from 16.00 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Minister Milek apologises for reasons of work, and Mrs Adámková apologises from 18.00 for reasons of work. I therefore ask Mr Bauer to prepare Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister through Mr President, it has already been heard here today by a fellow Member of Mr Jan Chvojka, but you are presenting an identical, identical bill, which has already appeared here at the end of the last parliamentary term and to which a really great criticism has been raised here from among the many institutions and to which many analyses have already been called for many times in the past, which you have not delivered. Minister Pelikán, with no confidence, showed minimal humility by submitting a proposal for an amendment to the insolvency law, in my opinion at least to the Chamber of Deputies. It presents to Parliament a proposal identical to its proposal from the end of the last parliamentary term. I would remind you that even then, many key institutions rejected him. He was also criticized at first reading, which was also said here today, and was also interrupted at first reading after the debate. I would like to remind you that neither of the substantive and serious complaints that were raised at the time, the Minister responded and did not speak at all in the debate. Unfortunately, in my opinion, Minister Pelikán did not make use of the time he was given, and did not, in my opinion, amend the law for five months or complete it. Nevertheless, he is now sending a proposal to the legislative process in the original, identical version. I would also like to say that he has bypassed the Legislative Council of the Government for the second time. The law was not followed by an inter-ministerial commentary procedure, which is perfectly logical in view of the same wording of the law, but at the same time means that there are valid comments applied to the law in the legislative process during the last parliamentary term, ladies and gentlemen, which we will not know at all from the submitted material. The proposed bill lacks fundamental analyses and information on the basis of which it could be assessed whether the proposal is at all in accordance with the legal or constitutional rules in the Czech Republic, what its financial costs will be and whether instead of helping people in a real, impossible situation will lead to massive abuse at the expense of creditors. I personally lack a proper justification for the need to submit this adjustment. The reason cannot be only the current number of people in debt or the media massage supported by some non-profit organizations. In my opinion, this does not give a picture of why and what people are in debt. We don't even know how many cases they find themselves in debt by their own irresponsibleness and in how many cases by objective causes that they can't influence. Furthermore, in my view, I lack an analysis of the effects on creditors and the business environment in general. In the position of creditors are not only financial or banking institutions, they are also companies providing services and goods, they are associations of apartment owners, municipalities and many others. I find it unthinkable for us to make decisions as fundamental as debt forgiveness without the analysis mentioned. We don't know how much the new debt system would cost us, according to Minister Pelikán's ideas. As a matter of fact, we don't know exactly. Even with a very conservative estimate of new debt claims and knowledge of the average cost of managing and managing one debt, we will get to billions of amounts. It is not only the total cost of the State to dedebt people in debt, but also the guarantee on the remuneration of insolvency administrators. This is nothing new for the Minister, because he was confronted with questions about the budgetary implications a year ago, and unfortunately, as I saw on the screen record, he did not respond to them. I think that I am not alone who would be interested in the impact on the budget, and as I saw again from the screen record, with this question, the then Minister of Finance, the current Prime Minister with no confidence, Andrej Babiš, and I would like to quote his request at the time: We demand to add that all the data generated by the adoption of the proposal will be covered within the budgeted funds and the existing personnel security of the chapter of the Ministry of Justice. I would therefore like to ask whether this is ensured. And if not, how will the expenditure related to the proposal be covered. [[16.30 hours]] It is not quite clear what impact the law would have on the work of the courts in the submitted version. They should assess much more closely the will of debtors to fulfil their obligations and pay off debts. There has been repeated concern that the courts will be overloaded and the proceedings will be prolonged. In my view, it is likely that the insolvency courts will start, in part under increased pressure from the disgruntled creditors, to assess more strictly the fulfilment of the conditions for authorisation, approval and duration of debt relief. Perhaps an even worse option is the situation where it would be precisely under the weight of new claims for insolvency that would start to proceed formally, because there will be no more time left for judges. Judging by publicly available opinions, this is not an idle concern, as judges themselves draw attention to this risk, as we could all see in the media. Last but not least, I was amazed by the statement of the petitioner that the new rules of insolvency will not affect the municipalities, respectively. the territorial authorities. In my opinion and in my experience, the opposite is true. Cities and municipalities of the Czech Republic and their established or established legal entities are one of a significant group of creditors. A number of public service claims, whether for rent or waste, are created for the municipalities. Moreover, the municipality is involuntary in view of the nature of the services provided. I confess that I do not officially have statistics on how about 6 200 municipalities and cities in the Czech Republic are doing, but I think that this is a serious issue for this segment as well. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, from a factual point of view, I consider the proposal to be wrong and unfair to those who repay their debts. They are people who prefer to cut off all their costs and live literally from hand to mouth just because they do not want to fall into execution or go through the process of debt relief. Such people try to correct their, perhaps wrong, decisions in the past, do not require safety nets. They are often in a much more difficult situation than those who rely on someone to pull them out of the mess. On the other hand, Minister Pelikán comes up with a proposal which de facto means a gross debt amnesty for all who cannot repay their debts, but also may not want to pay back. And I fear that the law, as it is written, does not guarantee at all that it will be possible to distinguish between these two groups. I know that this place will certainly have the Minister's back. Repeatedly, as I heard, he publicly refused to claim that it was a debt amnesty. According to him, instead of sending welfare benefits, the state will help the borrowers out of the trap and they will start working and honestly repaying all their earnings to the creditors. All I'm asking is where are the guarantees and motivations for these people to work legally and fulfill their obligations. Unfortunately, I don't see it in the bill. On the contrary, it seems that the better solution for many troubled debtors is to remain in the grey zone, which has also been said here today, not to admit earnings and continue to benefit from social benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion. We have here a proposal with which a number of key institutions in the Czech Republic disagreed. We do not have an analysis of the current situation and do not exist, or rather there are doubts about the impact of the proposed changes. Moreover, in principle, every political party announced that it would want to rewrite the law in the House. Of course, each one to its liking. In my opinion, it is so really threatening that, instead of making bad changes, their even worse version will pass through the House. That is why I will support the motion to dismiss, possibly the motion to return the petitioner for revision. If these proposals are not approved and the law is ordered to be discussed in the committees, I suggest that the Social Committee and the Economic Committee deal with them in the light of the broader context. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u9	Thank you. It is therefore a proposal for a commandment to the Social Committee. However, the motion for refusal or repayment did not fall. You just said that you would possibly support him, do I understand that? [[The MP agrees.]] Please, Mrs Valachová, then Mr Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u10	Mr President, fellow Members, allow me a few words on the proposal. The amendment to the insolvency law can undoubtedly be more perfect, on the other hand it is necessary to admit that if almost a million people are trapped in debt, it is clear that it is not for nothing that it is a million irresponsible individuals, but that even the environment itself, society, processes e.g. Previously allowed non-bank loans, predatory practices of collection companies, lack of consumer protection, all this has caused, as well as, say, a change in social conditions and the lack of financial literacy of citizens, that many citizens have been caught in a debt trap, not in dishonest intent. I think that almost a million people in a debt trap are a challenge for us to solve their situation together. Therefore, I would personally recommend the support of this amendment to the insolvency law and, if necessary, its completion at the following readings of the Chamber of Deputies. Why? Because, to some extent, it is a political issue on which politicians must agree to the extent to which debt is to be admitted, under what conditions, how they should be friendly to these conditions, and I dare say that without strong political support across the political spectrum, this task cannot be mastered. I fully agree with what has been said here from the mouth of the rapporteur Jan Chvojka and also the head of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, and I would like to point out one more thing from the point of view of supporting this amendment to the insolvency law. As we learned as members of the Sub-Committee on Debtion this morning, the largest proportion of people who are staggering or trapped in debt are people between 35 and 55 years old. That means they're people economically active, productive. What's going on? Unfortunately, they are mostly in a gray or black economy, their income is not taxed, they are victims of various agencies of work, of course, the dishonest ones, or others, let's say, in quotes, employers. And as for this black market, their failure to get rid of, of course, on the basis of the strict conditions of these debts results in the economy also losing wages that could otherwise be taxed and, of course, we are paying a number of impacts towards the social system. As far as seniors are concerned, I have already announced that the Social Democratic Club will propose amendments to seniors and children in terms of a more favourable way of de-debting. And as far as seniors are concerned, it was interesting to me that this group, on the contrary, is least numerous. But on the other hand, it has to be said that it has tripled in the last ten years. This means that the seniors are becoming increasingly threatened by the group, and it is clear that we do not have the tools at the moment to prevent it. As far as children are concerned, it is important to say there that we still do not have the responsibility of children satisfactorily resolved in the Civil Code, or rather the irresponsibleness or their contractual obligation so that what has happened to them for years does not happen to them, that because of the irresponsibleness of parents at 19 they are granted not an inheritance but a debt. And here it is important to say that the debts of persons between 19 and 25 are significantly lower than for example. for seniors, it only accounts for hundreds of thousands on average per person, so it is at the same time such a great burden at the beginning of this young person's life that they fall fastest into a debt trap without any solution. So I am calling on amendments to this effect by the parties to the Social Democratic Club, both in the case of seniors and children, and I am glad that colleagues on the subcommittee have announced support across the political spectrum. The last thing I would like to mention, and in this respect, I support the proposal that has fallen here and, of course, it will have to fall in the process again in order for this bill to be discussed by the Social Committee. Because the effectiveness of this amendment to the Insolvency Debt Act will depend heavily on social services. We all know that social services, social workers are not doing very well at the moment in terms of number and network security, and it will certainly be appropriate for the Social Committee to comment on this, including financial provision of these needs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u11	Thank you. I ask the Excellent Member and Mr Adamec will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u12	Dear Vice-President, Minister, dear colleagues, thank you for the floor. I would like to comment on the proposed amendment to the insolvency law. also as chairman of the above-mentioned subcommittee on Enforcement, Insolvency and Debtion, because I think it is very important that this platform was established on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, where we can go to the bottom of the whole issue, so to speak. And I can inform you and the entire plenary that this morning we have been very intensively dealing with the representatives of the Ministry of Justice of the amendment for almost two hours, and we are agreed that this subcommittee should discuss these possible amendments, as they will certainly be here, and we should look for political consensus on the subcommittee. Because, as my colleague Valachová rightly said here, it really will be a political decision in the finals. I want to say a few basic things for myself. I'm also not happy that the Ministry - and I said so publicly - pulled the proposal out of the drawer and submitted it without any adjustments to the House, but that's the situation. And at the moment and at KDU-ČSL I can guarantee that we have an interest in releasing this amendment and, through the debate, not only on the subcommittee, but, of course, on those guarantee committees to seek support for reasonable compromise proposals. We do not think that the proposal, as it is presented, is absolutely perfect in everything, but on the other hand we perceive the problem, which is not only a legal problem but also a social problem of nearly 900 thousand. people who are under a lot of pressure from execution. And that's the problem, unfortunately, and I think that's a little something to do with the general debate in our society. Of course, these people don't wear any tags on their heads: I'm happy to be in execution. And perhaps it is to take steps that would in any way disintegrate these people and return them not only to the economy, but also to return them to the social environment, to seek those paths, it is our duty and our task. I would like to remind you of one thing - and that may be a challenge for other departments, and it didn't come out here today. This amendment cannot be self-effective and it needs to be accompanied by further legislative amendments, I am thinking mainly of the law on social housing. Because if these related, follow-up legislative matters are not discussed in the foreseeable future, the law itself will not be as beneficial as it might be. This applies, of course, to the regulation of the Civil Code. It's already been suggested here today. Priority should be given to the principal, not interest - to turn the order. These are things that could certainly help the whole environment. As part of the amendment, I see several points that will - and have already been announced at the subcommittee's meeting - be subject to amendments. One of them concerns the insolvency administrators' institute itself. I see it as a very legitimate objection that insolvency administrators will not be able to serve such a high idea that would be here after the adoption of the law. Of course, this concerns not only insolvency administrators, but also their rewards, but I forgot to mention this, because it is already repeatedly mentioned by representatives of insolvency administrators that the rewards they have today are very low and that no one will want to do so. This is another topic that needs to be opened in the context of the expert discussion. The other issue is that if we don't expand the capacity of those organisations and non-profit organizations that work with debtors, in the finals, the situation will be that these people really aren't going to be there to help them process the insolvency proposal. So these are absolutely fundamental things that must be taken into account in the discussion on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recommend and ask that we release this amendment to the second reading. I welcome the proposal to extend the deadline to 80 days, I presume. Subsequently, individual proposals will be carefully discussed on the board of the guarantee committees and on the floor of the subcommittee, and we will seek consensus in advance so that we can then vote on proposals here on the floor of the House, which will create a regulation that will be better than it is today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u13	Thank you. Mr Adamec, please, and Mr Feri will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u14	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, well, I have heard a lot of good thoughts here. I even think that the bill is guided by its own good intentions. But unfortunately, it doesn't happen so often that only good intentions aren't enough, and then it ends up somewhere we didn't want to, and they say that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. When we're talking about how interest and interest rates should actually change and cancel and everything, I'll tell you who's the greatest champion on the subject. What a state! Try to borrow something from the state or owe it to the state, God forbid. You know what you're doing in the village. Then the sanctions are huge. How many times you didn't make it your own fault and then pay. It's a state. He wants everything back ruthlessly. And maybe if you're lucky and your Treasury Secretary is your political soul mate, then maybe he'll forgive you for the collection. A 50-pound collection, just so we're clear. So all I'm saying is that it seems to me that we want to do good here, but for the money of someone else entirely. And I have nothing against the idea. Again, I think the problem is here, we need to look at it. But for God's sake, I can still feel the poor people in debt, how poor they are, how they got caught in a debt trap. Well, I don't know, I went to primary school, I graduated from math, and they told us that one and one are two and not three. And my parents also said I shouldn't borrow it, it's dangerous. Because a lot of these people don't even know what an interest rate is, and that's beyond other things, like they don't know what an RPSN is and stuff like that, I'm not even gonna say it here. By the way, creditors will be paying again in this proposal. Well, what about the state? Stop nothing again. The state will pay its insolvency administrator in full on this, let's face it. I have to say one thing, I don't have a few numbers here. Here's where we said we wanted to return them to a normal economy from the gray or black zone. On average, today we have 3% unemployment. And if I compare it to the numbers here, it really doesn't play. And I myself wonder how many of the 863,000 executions - and these are executions - are not all debts, some debts have not yet reached executions - have caused people who no longer have any assets, have no will to work, and therefore have no will to return anything to anyone. That's what I'd like to know, this number, so I can keep track of it. Of course, I understand that debt can get into the carelessness or some coincidence, the management of fate of everyone. And debts should be paid. It must be said that debts should be paid. And everyone knows when they borrow something, what conditions they go into. Debts are supposed to be paid. And I don't want to discuss whether executors are like that, or poppy seed, and whether they have local or national jurisdiction. I really don't want to do this here. But let's remember that sometimes, after the insolvency proceedings, the creditor becomes a debtor. Is that okay? I don't think so. That's got to be a strong distinction, too. [[16.50 hours]] And then what bothers me is that there's talk of unsecured claims. You secured, the Minister said it here, it's got to be nutritious. I know the state has another, I'd say, secured claims with our citizens. Next. These are various taxes, I think they're social and health insurance. That's just the way it is. Like when you fall into insolvency, the first person to touch it is the state. Always. Always, uncompromising. Once there's nothing left, it's divided into creditors who are called. Uncertainty. I have to say, when I read it here, what it looks like in these three possible variants, three years 50 percent, five years 30 percent and seven years up to 30 percent, I ask how it's going to be in the municipalities. They don't lend money to anybody, but municipalities simply rent housing, including social housing, where rent is paid. Municipalities provide services or their companies provide services for citizens. And you're telling me that if you debt these people in this form, and people who aren't interested in anything in a number of cases today, I'm not saying that this is the right thing to do, and that suddenly they'll be clean after seven years, when they won't pay almost anything according to this proposal, so you want to tell me that these other citizens are going to look at it with understanding? Those who pay their duties pay their debts or liabilities, to be exact, that it will be okay? I have to ask myself here: Isn't it worth paying the rent and the services to the municipalities in this case if nothing happens in the end? These people don't have property to take it from. They don't. So I'm asking if this is okay morally. Of course, I understand that there's a certain percentage. No one told me what percentage of the 863,000 executions are the people who got into this without their own fault, illegally, they want to work, they have assets that can be monetized, and they want to work so that they can repay the debt. No one here told me that. Maybe it doesn't go well enough based on the data that's here. So please, I'm not gonna propose a rejection here. I think that when there was a sigh here, that it should be supplemented by another law called social housing, I want to warn my colleague through the President that it is in charge of a completely different ministry. And we know that the communication between ministries for all governments was what it was. But when I think of the last attempt that was here in the Chamber of Deputies, now I mean the bill on social housing, it was an even bigger hole in the budget and an even bigger hole in social injustice than I think this proposal that we have before us on the table can happen. So I have to say that I have read the protests of professional organizations, including the Union of Towns and Communities, which I am interested in, because really the community is completely in a different role, it is not a loan shark, guarantor, bank, community simply provides for its citizens' activities, and now suddenly we find that it could be completely different and that after seven years it will be nothing at all, and those people will, of course, look like they are clean, and by law they will be. That doesn't feel morally right. Otherwise, as it is written, I would like to propose rejection, but if anyone does it instead of me, I will support it, but I will not suggest it myself. But I would return it to the petitioner to rework, because in my opinion, this is not the way to go. And compared to the foreign country that also fell here, those conditions are a little different, and here the share of these insolvency proceedings per capita is significantly higher in this proposal than is needed in Austria or Germany. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u15	Mr. Ambassador, I'm supposed to take that as a motion to return to work. Thank you. Mr Feri, please, and then Mr Kolařík. I took it as a proposal to ask the Member, because the Minister is questioning the fact that you have proposed a return to work, so please once more on the microphone. That's how I understood it, but let's be clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u16	Yes, I propose a proposal for revision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u17	Thank you and please Mr Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the opinion of the TOP 09 on this proposed amendment. To begin with, I want to make it clear that TOP 09 supports efforts to address the burden of debtors and sees the need for debt relief as an institution that is extraordinary but which is also not completely insurmountable to achieve. After all, debt relief as such is no novelty, and we know many examples from history. A very well - known example of debt forgiveness is needed in Bible times, that is, every seventh year for Žid and every 49th year for all. Then let us mention England, Queen Anna's English law from the beginning of the 18th century, when the debtor cashed all his assets, obtained the consent of four fifths of the creditors and, if he acted actively, in the interest of the creditors, he was forgiven for paying the remaining claims. Even then, it was clear that dealing with the really critical situation of debtors was necessary. The famous lawyer William Blackstone to the main sense of debt relief, i.e. the debtor's return to society, writes: Why will the bankrupt become re-purified from debt and thus may become a useful member of society. So much for that. Predebted and bankrupt have been part of society since people figured out that money can create money and that lending is advantageous. So many historical introductions and let's move on to the proposal in question. The first theme of this regulation concerns the debt of spouses. Here, let's mention the previous amendment, Act No. 294/2013 Sb. This allowed the joint submission of a proposal for the authorisation of debt relief, and this proposed amendment follows it. According to the supplemented paragraph 4 of Section 25, the insolvency court, although not automatically, would now determine the same insolvency administrator for both spouses. I understand the intention pursued, I consider it rational, but I think that, at first sight, we should pay great attention to this small provision in the constitutional committee and consult its possible implications with insolvency administrators. I intend, in particular, to address issues related to the local jurisdiction of spouses and the impact on the determination of insolvency administrators. In the context of the amended § 274, the question of the remuneration of insolvency administrators in the case of two proceedings of spouses led by two different insolvency administrators shall also be addressed. But I'll come back to the insolvency trustee's reward. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the youngest of all of you here, and I am a political novice, and I have a lot to learn, but there are things that I would very much hate to accept without thought, and that one of these things is a certain routine of perception, which means that what is presented by a political competitor here, through the YES movement, through the mouth of the Minister of Justice, must be reproached to the fullest extent and automatically to bring it down. What I think is good, appropriate and necessary in this amendment is the emphasis that the debtor really knows what he is going into, so that he does not only see the light at the end of the tunnel in the form of exemption from payment of claims, that is seven years, but that he is aware of many responsibilities. Compared to the current adjustment, I feel a great shift in this. Newly, the debtor would have to add an honest statement to the motion for authorisation of debt relief that he knew his duties and that he would do it honestly. In addition, the insolvency court, on a proposal from the insolvency administrator, will be able to impose social advice in order to take place e.g. to deepen the financial and debt literacy that I have been calling for for several times. There is also a positive setting of a long, in this case a 10-year period during which the debtor will not be allowed to repay the debt again. So the speciality of the debt relief fund is underlined. However, the issue is already the determination of the maximum amount of claims of unsecured creditors. The proposal is a thousand times the existent minimum, i.e. 2.2 million. The available data reveals that such mandatory enforcement procedures are minimal compared to the rest. However, I would suggest a certain correction here. 2.2 million, that's really a lot of money and a signal towards debtors that even if they really over-indebted, they could be de-debted. The average amount of claims of unsecured creditors in debt is approximately 600 to 800 thousand, and this is also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. The reduction of that threshold from 2.2 million even in half, which came as a proposal from the Executive Chamber, would not have been negatively affected by those whom this amendment is intended to help in the first place. A key policy relating to this amendment in the long term is the level of satisfaction of the claims of unsecured creditors needed to meet the debt relief and therefore exemption from the payment of remaining claims of unsecured creditors. Only someone who would be completely disdainful of the fates of hundreds of thousands of debtors would say that the current state of less than 20,000 debt reliefs is sufficient and that a massive number of execution procedures or multiple executions are not a problem. They really are a problem, and I think they have had a significant impact on the results of the elections. I have met with such an attitude exceptionally, and it can therefore be expected that the debate will not be borne in the spirit of whether or not to address this social phenomenon, but rather in what ways and how much to meet debtors. [[17,00 hours]] It is clear from the explanatory statement from the plaintiff that the purpose of this amendment is to help get hundreds of thousands of people out of the debt trap. After all, one of the cornerstones of the amendment is that debtors would only have to bear the costs associated with insolvency proceedings for seven years and that would have sufficed. The word just doesn't concern the length of debt, because seven years, I think, is a border period. When we look at foreign modifications, it's the longest adjustment. And those seven years are also a long enough purgatory. The word only applies to that zero paid to creditors. In addition to representatives from the insolvency administrators and the non-profit sector, I had the opportunity to consult with the Minister, who said that if we wanted to pay something more than zero after the debtors, which is quite a legitimate requirement, many seniors would not have reached the possibility of debt relief, and let me tell them. I think this is exactly what it represents in order to make the proposal, as it is presented, the only right solution, and of all those who disagree with it, those inhuman Members who do not want to deal with the situation. However, it is already said that those up to 655 thousand debtors in debt traps will not be able to enter the system in one single year. That's impossible. While the Minister may claim that this proposal will help them, he no longer says that they will have to wait for a year to resolve their situation. Why? In 2017, some 20,000 proposals were submitted for authorisation of debt relief. The idea of hundreds of thousands of debt claims would never be able to handle insolvency courts. But that itself would not have happened at all, because so many proposals should not even be made, we have mentioned it many times today on the subcommittee, because only a limited number of people can do so. Already, many debtors must wait for them to get their turn, and the accredited person will prepare a proposal for authorisation of debt relief. Today I consulted with the author mapaexekuci.cz who tells me there's a very common situation where the debtor comes to the accredited person, to the nonprofit, he says: you get it for free and others want money for it. But the nonprofit says, okay, but you have to wait a month, because there's just a lot of requests. As far as the satisfaction of the claims is concerned, I think it is necessary that at least a small part of the debt be paid. We all know how much debt can go down. To manage to pay but at least 5 or 10 per cent should be able to be able to any debtor who asks the State for the benefit of debt relief. According to the Minister, however, 5 or 10 percent is too draconian. And that's another important thing that should be heard. The difference between the current adjustment, i.e. five years and 30 %, and the proposed one, seven years and 10 %, is considerable. It is not that there is a valid regulation, which is strict, so the regulation of our, let's say, those who propose at least some satisfaction of creditors, and then the only correct regulation of the ministerial. It is not that asking the debtors for at least 5 or 10 per cent would allow only a few thousand debtors to be de-debted. No. Even this proposed solution could help hundreds of thousands of debtors, because not only is the sum that the debtor has to pay reduced, indeed he has more time for it, but the difference is that the legislator would at least make it clear that something small, and that is to say, in large quotation marks, must be paid. So, of course, even our proposed solution would solve the situation. In addition, the proposal sets out more clearly the possibilities of the insolvency court to meet the borrowers and to interrupt or extend the debt relief. I think that, in the concept of these institutes, the appellant may be too helpful, considering that these seven years are a really long and helpful time. And zero is too helpful. However, these are other aspects of interruptions and prolongations that would make the proposed 5, 10, 15 percent of the borrowers' lives much easier, so it cannot be said that the obligation of ten percent paid would be too strict. Back to the reward of the insolvency administrator. I think it is necessary, therefore, if we are already releasing the conditions, to motivate insolvency administrators not to go halfway through the gas and to watch only their remuneration and reimbursement of the completed expenses, but to try to make sure that the debtor really makes up for something. As already mentioned in the debates, we should also discuss in committee the motivational nature of the insolvency administrator's remuneration. I believe we will find some consensus there after expert consultation. It will also be important to discuss what the maximum value of the dwellings should be, which the debtor is obliged to issue to the insolvency administrator when the payment schedule with the cashing-in of assets is being withdrawn. This above should, in my opinion, be regulated directly in the law, and not as it is in this amendment, that is, by some kind of law. Ladies and gentlemen, we have many specific, constructive reservations about this proposal, but we will continue to let it go, we will vote for it at first reading and we will contribute with our own initiatives in committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u19	I thank Mr Ferim. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will continue the debate by speaking to Mr Lukáš Kolářík. A colleague of Farský will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say as a pirate club that we support the amendment to the insolvency law and consider it a step in the right direction. The problem of execution is serious and affects a large number of people, whether directly or indirectly within the family. This is the result of bad policy in previous years, which has contributed significantly to the emergence of this problem. Fortunately, most of the bad things have already been corrected. For example, there has been a ban on executor entries, arbitration clauses and notes as an execution title. There has also been a reduction in the remuneration of lawyers, a reduction in interest on consumer loans and a reduction in interest rates. However, we are now left with a huge amount of active execution files. By this huge amount, I mean about 4.6 million of these active execution files. These executions are ordered to 840,000 people and 85 percent of these executions are ordered to people with three or more executions. In my opinion, this large group of people should no longer be in the enforcement regime, but it is in the insolvency regime that they will never be able to pay their obligations again. But for these citizens, there is no solution at this time. The 30% threshold for entering insolvency proceedings - it's just too high a step for them. They are so doomed to spend the rest of their lives in a gray or black economy on the outskirts of society. Many overindebted people were in their situation as a result of unexpected and unplanned life events. It may be a loss of employment, permanent illness, divorce or death of a partner. So I could keep going. There really is no solution for these citizens at the moment. The most common argument against this amendment is, naturally, the rights of creditors, that the creditors' claims will not be satisfied by reducing the threshold for entry into insolvency. But look at this group of over-indebted citizens. Do you think a third, fourth, fifth creditor has any real chance of getting anything back for his claims? I don't think he does. On the contrary, it is the debtor's entry into insolvency that increases creditors' chances. They are all built at about the same level and have at least some hope of getting their claim back. In the present situation, where the obligation in insolvency is to pay at least 30% of the amount owed, the debt is quite often paid in full. This amendment is certainly not perfect and will need to be corrected. And that's what we can do at second reading. Therefore, the pirát will support the procedure until the second reading and will try to fix it there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u21	I thank Mr Lukáš Kolářík. Mr Jan Farský now. A colleague, Mr Pavel Blažek, will be prepared and the rapporteur has also announced his speech in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me give you the opinion of the Mayors' Club and independent of this bill. It is a fundamental standard that comes here in the amendment, which really points to one of the major problems of the Czech Republic, which does not shrink, which, on the contrary, grows every year and is already in a situation that affects national policy and is getting into a situation that is harder and harder to solve. And so, even though, of course, this proposal provokes controversy, because if someone calls it a debt forgiveness, it supports the irresponsibility of debtors, of course, the label is that none of us would want to raise our hand for something like that. But it can't be overlooked that there are some 850 thousand people in execution, that half of them have multiple executions that basically don't allow them to ever get out of their lives, because only the interest on the original principal they're bound by is so high and so bouncing that they basically don't give them any incentive to even try to make any payments. [[17.10 hours]] It has many outputs. Of course, one of them is that these people are getting completely out of economic activity, outside of economic activity, let's say legal. They'll find their livelihood. They get some benefits, they make some money black, they get some help, and they survive in the finals. But the problem is that, of course, at that point, they are only beneficiaries of the state budget, but they don't do anything about their activities, and therefore they discredit the whole company in total. And the problem is that this pattern of behavior is passed on to future generations, children and offspring who, when they grow up in such an environment, are at great risk of accepting the same pattern of behavior. So we can talk about 850,000 people in execution today, but it's a problem that, of course, will grow. For me and for the Mayors' Club and the independent proposal that there be the possibility of debting those who will actually go the seven-year way of selling their assets, when in good faith they will try to fulfill their obligations by actively seeking work, that they will try to at least partially satisfy their creditors' claims, is the way that gives it light at the end of the tunnel, and is the way that will allow at least parts of these several hundred thousand people - and let us not take the illusion that several hundred thousand people can go through this way. She's not going to be as easy as she looks at first glance and so easy, so I'm thinking, if it's going to be in the low order of tens of thousands, I think it's more real. But it's also worth giving these people a hand. When we discussed this in the past, and because it was also the topic of the last parliamentary term - which I would point out to the petitioner that they should have better updated the explanatory report, where references to the press that have already been discussed are found. Update given how serious this is, I would hope that this will be done with a little more precision and work, but it doesn't change the content at the moment. We are in a situation where people do not have light at the end of the tunnel, and at the same time I understand the objections of colleagues who say that it is something that works in such a way that it is no longer necessary to pay debts, that it can also be demotivated to those who may have approached, and let us hope that most of them are responsible for their debts, and that it might also sound to society, as if, since the approval of this amendment, no longer pay your debts. That would be a huge risk, and, on the contrary, we would still hurt those who are concerned and are to be helped, because he does not mean it at all, and that is not written in it. It's still true that debts have to be paid. That when you go out, where the biggest creditors are, not the largest amount of finance, but the largest number of executions, the first place really is the state, social, health. These are relatively small amounts, but which, when added to them the accessories of the individual levels of the process, they grow into huge amounts and become actually hard to pay at the moment. It is also no secret that by 2013, he was basically the biggest loan shark in this state, when, for example, housing fees were given some 96 percent a year. At the same time, it was difficult to hold a debate - I mean, the housing debt charge, where it was 0.25 %, and every year multiplied by 365, you come to such percentages. Then, given the burden on the courts, it took two or three years for the judgment to be issued, so the person who at the beginning owed $20,000, only the accessories in the judgment were already worth another $60,000, not counting the costs of legal representation. So it's not like it's always just responsibility for the entire debt of debtors, and it's always just their problem. There are also courts where it may have taken just another six months to complete the judgment, and again the debt has increased by another 50 per cent. And that's not something that we should only transfer to citizens and say, care, your fault. It could often have been a dispute where it was not quite clear what the outcome should be, and it was not merely an extension of the debtor's desire to avoid and delay payments, and therefore he deserves it in quotes. When we were debating this as the electoral press in the past period and we were debating it now, we came across one option that we think could be useful for the adoption of the law, and at second reading we will certainly be presenting it in the form of an amendment, and at this point I am asking for your attention - is the possibility of using the so-called. Public works that, where the debtor is trying to get a job, he does not get it and does not have a chance to get it, because the region can be so complicated - and often it covers - poorly paid places, inaccessible places are in regions where there are at the same time 20 percent and more people in execution, so in cooperation with the Association of Local Authorities, we have conducted a questionnaire inquiry into whether they would be prepared in such a situation, actually ready to lend a helping hand. And that's not the job of just sweeping the streets. This could also be more professional and professional work, it could be office work, which also applies to community service. It is at a debate that we certainly want to go through and we will go through at the government level with individual ministers, about whether in such a situation it would not be possible to increase the necessary minimum, what remains for individuals to be motivated to do the work at all, because if you are going to go to work and the result is that you will not get to an amount that is much higher than the amount that you will get at doses anyway, it is a situation which, of course, does not motivate anyone to gain any work habits at all. So here we will propose as starosta and independent this option and at the same time an obligation to where he does not get to work, so that he is obliged, if offered, to use so community service, to work this way for the company, to generate some money for his creditors and at the same time for the company to do in its possibilities and in its capabilities as much work as possible. It is a matter that we are preparing in paragrafo the text and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, we will certainly present it, because although it may be unpleasant for us and sometimes from these areas it seems to be too distant a problem, so it is really a fundamental problem of the Czech Republic, which needs to be solved. It is one of the priority areas to put strength and energy into, and I even think that it would be in this, and it is a bit of a call to the right, because I think that this is quite a right-wing proposal, because we will give people a chance to go back to a system where they will not only be recipients of public funds, but they will have to pay taxes, they will be paid for by social and health, and, on the contrary, by the state budget, I believe that they will make money on this journey. The point is, it's not just at the expense of creditors. But at the same time, let's not get illusions, and the explanatory note to this law shows that the yield today is high. Similarly, creditors who have debtors who have two, three, four executions can't count much on getting their hands on any funds anymore. So the reduction of creditors losing some substantial amounts here isn't. Rather, if they have a light at the end of the tunnel that after seven years of trying, real effort and real economic performance will forgive them the rest, there is a chance that during those seven years they will pay off at least some part of their debt. If we don't give them this chance, they're gonna spend the seven years avoiding paying any liabilities so much that they don't pay off anything at all. So I think that if this is done in individual conditions to really force that activity and it was a condition, and people who don't use this hand, so that they're excluded from this system, then it has the potential for creditors to increase the yield of those otherwise quite impregnable debts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u23	Thank you, Mr Jan Farský. He raised two factual points. First Mr Jan Zahradník, then Mr Adamec. My colleague Blažek will vyčkat. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u24	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been here before, not as an expert on insolvency and execution practices, but as a teacher of mathematics, who taught my students the practical significance of this beautiful science. Among other things, to be able to navigate precisely in the financial mathematics. That is, to be able to calculate, and sometimes just a few certain percentages for them, the specific amounts that they will actually have to pay to their creditors. And today, as a teacher at the faculty of education, I'm part-time, but I'm still going on. It's hard. People don't really like to learn math, although it could possibly bring them much useful. Including this knowledge here. I am concerned that if we accept this law, as its proponents and his supporters suggest, we will give those pupils a further argument that defies the acceptance of this knowledge when they say: Why would we learn this if not only the interest for us, but for us the debt will eventually be paid by the State? So why learn to count the interest, to count the refund, when we'll eventually get out of this long trap with state action? Therefore, I request careful consideration in the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Adamec's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, I was led by a Member of Farský. I wonder, and that's why I wanted to return it, because we don't have the numbers. I'd really like to know how many of these 863 executions could fall into the regime of this bill. [[1000]] I think that's very important. I really don't know. And the second thing is what he said about the one, I would say about the natural fulfillment of the job, virtually. That they'd get paid to get it off their backs. Well, that's okay. After all, the purpose is for people to work, to take care of themselves, to take care of their family, and not to burden the state. That's for sure. But I would really like to know how many of those 863,000 executions, how much they're really going to fall into the regime of this bill. So that we don't play something here that we find as a result that the efficiency is very low. She's nowhere else than we all imagined.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u27	Thank you, Mr Adamc. Now, Mr Dominik Feri and Mr Stanjura, with factual remarks. My colleague Blažek is certainly patient, duly enrolled in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am very pleased that my previous speaker from the ODS mentioned here precisely the signal we are sending towards the public, towards the debtors. It's just that debts don't have to be paid. In this form, this proposal really is inadmissible for me, and I would certainly not vote for it in the third reading if there was no change. If he had changed, that means that if the situation had been resolved, if there had been some kind of mitigation, then I think that the signal towards debtors, and perhaps the children of debtors, too, would have been, I think, very positive and quite strict. That would mean that the children would see: so my parents had to cut themselves loose for seven years, the insolvency administrator is stepping on them in big quotes, making sure they go to work, see if they're losing their assets. And I think it's positive. However, what is missing in terms of data, apart from the clear definition of how many people fall there, how many of these proposals can be, which we cannot say from the point of view. It's not just multiple executions. It's also about who really uses this benefit, but it would certainly be hundreds of thousands, which I don't think would be absolutely manageable. That's an unimaginable idea. But what number well calculated is missing, and I know it's hard to calculate, so it's how much money the economy is losing, how much money is losing when these debtors are working black, illegal, or when they're not part of that economy's company. For your information, I found out today. In Britain, they tried to quantify it, and it turned out that it was by not participating in debtors that the state was losing 8.5 billion. Pounds a year. How much is it in the Czech Republic, I don't know. Maybe the D.O.D. should process it. It should have done that a long time ago. But I think that number would definitely be significant. But at the end of the day. Let's certainly not send a report about the zero in the direction of the debtors. The fact that he doesn't have to pay at all, nothing at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Stanjura, with a point of fact... No. My colleague Blažek is ready, so... With priority rights then, a colleague of Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u30	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary and I have... He's always said it somewhere, topics that are constantly repeating to us, such as Olomouc prosecutors or insolvency. I could talk as much here as I did in the past period on this subject for a very long time, but because I feel sorry for both the Minister and the rest of you today, I will limit myself to some of the really fundamental thesis. [[Nesroz.]] The first one. When I listen to the debate, I'm mostly interested in how many people there are, the debtors. My colleague Valachová said almost a million, and then there were hundreds of thousands, 850 thousand. And I just always suspect when these quite radical proposals come in, those who put them forward that we have to put another word on the floor of the debtor - and that's the voter. This is a huge number of people who will learn how governments or different political parties want to take care of them, and they are expected to be elected by these people, of course. If there were as many creditors as debtors, there was never such a law. And I am convinced, and I am already saying this a few times in this House, that I am right, although of course I cannot prove it, but I think it is. The second circle of problems is - here I would probably quote Haškov Švejk: "It's a good thing when people lend us loans." But I'm not gonna be antisocial right now, I'm not gonna say that all the debtors are feasting. I probably wouldn't be right about that either. But let me put it another way. When I listen to how many Members and actually the government want to help so badly, I will paraphrase that statement: It helps us when others pay for it. That means creditors. Here comes a huge number of people who say how badly they want to help those debtors who find themselves in this, let's say, difficult situation. However, the state will not give a crown. The creditors will pay for all this. And I beg you - I listened to my colleague Valachová. That dictionary from Red Law, that it's some kind of creditors, that it's all a bunch of crooks and shit, that's exactly what it was, except it was used for Wall Street or capitalists in general. It's wrong. Yes, of course, there are various companies in the market that are unfair and do so, let's say, with some fraudulent intentions. But those creditors are often people like us. Landlords. Or it's a community that someone owes for collecting waste, etc. As a result of this law, those who do not pay will not continue to pay. And those who pay for the garbage collection in that village may - maybe - continue to pay for it. However, they will bear it at the expense of those who will not be able to pay. And we don't think they're gonna pay after this law. It will be exactly the opposite, and maybe more will be added. And the third thing I wanted to say. You know, Prime Minister Babiš often mentions Tomáš Baťa, why not? That's something to appreciate. But we can't see the end of his business, that means a huge Zlin, a huge company and a lot of activities and employees that he calls co-workers. I'd like to remind you that when he started, his first company went bankrupt, and then Tomáš Baťa worked at night to pay off the debts. And in his memoirs, he wrote a beautiful sentence: Bankruptcy is a matter of moral conviction. Do you think we can help any morale if we pass this law? No way. Those debtors will not read the law in detail. They just learn that sometimes it can happen that even if they are in debt, a powerful state will come that will enter into the legal relationships that they have concluded, and in some way help them. It will lead to this, no doubt, that payment morale will already be much worse, but let us not think that it will lead to a decline in loans. On the contrary, they will. Because there's no other way to call it that than to borrow the instructions. And the fourth thesis is - please, how do those who do not borrow it, not that they are millionaires, but simply do not borrow on principle because they do not buy a lot of things they do not need necessarily. Now I'm thinking mostly consumer goods. That's not how they borrow. Or those who pay back. They must feel like idiots for being right. And this law simply leads us to divide the nation into those responsible, who suffer and look at those irresponsible, who completely calmly do not perform their duties and may actually have as good a time as they do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u31	I thank Mr Blažek. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS Club, will now be prepared by Mrs Válková. I'm still registering the rapporteur's application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u32	I wasn't sure if it was in two minutes, but I'm gonna try. I would like to focus more - this was the result of the discussion - on the questions of the Minister. I'd choose two groups from that group of creditors. First, the state as a creditor. Does that mean it's going to apply to those who don't pay taxes? Who didn't pay their taxes? We're chasing businessmen, giving 30 grand fines for sending over a late inspection report, and now we're telling those who haven't paid their taxes that we'll forgive them? That's the first group, the first creditor. The second creditor is municipalities and cities. I would ask, and this analysis will certainly occur quickly if you ask the Union of Municipalities or the Association of Local Authorities to give you information about the claims for dog fees, fees for waste and rent, or rent services. And believe me, cities don't often use executions, so I don't think it's gonna be translated in that number. And I guarantee you that the sum will be extraordinarily high. I know a town of 60 thousand, and I know how many long-term debts there are from unpaid fees or rents. And those apartments are a few hundred, they're not tens of thousands of apartments. My colleague Pavel Blažek spoke of this. So what about the poor guys who pay the garbage bill every year who pay for their dog? How do they get that? These are no unfair groups and some aggressive methods of different companies. They certainly are, yes, they are. But I am asking specifically about the two groups of creditors - the state, tax defaults, virtually. unpaid taxes - now compare it with what this coalition here or the previous coalition has shown in pursuit of each crown: hedging orders, illegal, etc. And now all of a sudden we're saying you didn't pay your taxes, so we're gonna forgive you. What does this have to do with the alignment of the business environment that many of us like to talk about here, including me, from this microphone? What does that have to do with anything? What does this have to do with the fact that cities cannot spend enough money on cleanliness, greenery, social services? Because they have tens of millions of unpaid fees. And you say, "Let's just delete it." I'd like that analysis. I'm sure if you turn to those organizations that bring together cities and municipalities, they'll give it to you. I'm not saying that all 6,200 municipalities, but many have it at their disposal, in fact, every town hall has it in its budget. Very often this is calculated, the waste charge is updated every year, with very often unpaid fees in the materials for all councils. They're not dramatic sums. There's no interest that's bouncing in. And speaking of interest, let's see how, for example, the Financial Administration, virtually, is. stand by because of our laws that we or our predecessors have approved, what interest is when you are late, and you can be in secondary insolvency. Interest is quite high, let's say. There may also be a problem. If we really want to deal with this honestly, then we just have to distinguish groups and distinguish the reasons why someone got into the debt trap. I can't quantify how many are who have had an objective cause, a deterioration in health, a loss of employment, and we could name other and other objective reasons. But the experience of community policy is that the vast majority of those who owe do not communicate with the office. They're not trying to arrange a payment schedule, they're not going to say, "I have a problem, I've lost my job, let's talk about rent, we're going to break it down, or something like that." And who's paying for all this? Those citizens who properly repay their commitments. And the other, the irresponsible - I don't talk about those who have objective reasons - they often laugh in their faces and say, "You're completely stupid." And we're actually going to support these groups, among other things. So without the split, if it's a general pardon or general amnesty, it doesn't matter what we call it, only the decent will pay for it. And when we come out of those numbers and we say that there are 830 thousand of those who are trapped in debt, I still have a much larger group of people coming out who are properly fulfilling their obligations. And they often have a big problem with it and really from paycheck to paycheck, and they fulfill it and cancel their foreign holidays, new, more expensive mobile phones etc. And they're supposed to pay for it eventually, because municipalities and cities don't have the missing money. The Minister looks at me this way - ask his mayor in Prague how much Prague has and the various city parts of the waste charges. And that's all the money that's missing in public service. And those who don't get those public services either, because the city doesn't have what it takes, but they do their duty. We think the proposal is unbalanced. At the same time, we say that the problem really exists and that we are ready to participate in the solution, but with other parameters. I am not sure, Minister, that we are able to agree on parameters before the second reading and change the parameters of the law. If we agree not to go back and park it somewhere and there's enough time for a political debate and a search for a solution, we're ready. But if you want to force it, you will do bear service to cities, municipalities, but also to the state. I'm particularly interested in those who don't pay taxes. In this fight against tax evasion, how can you at the same time suggest that someone gets out of it and ultimately doesn't pay the tax legally with the consent of the state?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u33	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now, Mrs Helena Válková, the last one entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u34	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to a few things that are essentially or were the content of some contributions. The amendment to the insolvency law has rarely several perspectives, or, if you like, several aspects - ethical, political, social, fiscal. It's a shame not to take advantage of that option. I think that here the opposition should really unite with the government and find a solution together. For myself, to be transparent to you, I am in favour of adopting an amendment to the insolvency law, but in a slightly different version, although I would not call it that, but I will leave that to you to change the essential parameters. What's my point? I myself am not a specialist, and I have always said this as Minister of Justice, for insolvency proceedings, so in this case I usually humbly take advice or listen to those who deal with this issue in practice, which are insolvency administrators and are also insolvency sections of the courts. After talking to them, I draw attention to several aspects that have already been raised here, but I will try to make them absolutely clear as I have heard them. They point out that if we were to approve the amendment in the submitted version, there will most likely be a great deal of burden on both these institutions, particularly the courts, and some say that there may be some paralysis of the activity for the time they deal with it, a higher number of assistants or other helpers will be acquired. At the same time, I have been alerted to vague terms that will allow some courts that will be overwhelmed, basically supervising whether the debtor has really done everything that can reasonably be required of him to get rid of debts over seven years, so supervision will be carried out in a very formal way, that they will essentially debt everyone out, which would really be the signal that the two previous speakers before me were talking about, that would be a signal for those who do not want to pay their debts from the start. I think that would be a great shame. koneckonců all, a very interesting evaluation of those who are more involved and are lawyers has also been published at lidovky.cz , where about 50 per cent of the lawyers were opposed and 30 per cent said "yes, definitely" on the contrary. Even - because I always like the way Mr Blažek, by your means, quotes here, I took the liberty of writing a quote that was also made there, where it was basically referred to the book Leviticus of the Bible, where it was recommended that every 50 years slaves be released and returned to them the property they had lost. Basically, it's every 50 years of debt obliterating. In two generations, social relations become so complex that it was better to delete everything and start over. That's, of course, a paraphrase. But we see that this is also a mercy in the Bible, and I think that we should return to those who deserve it in this regard, and that is why I am in favour of the amendment. [[17.40 hours]] However, I am thinking out loud whether a compromise solution could be found, for example, in that this law would apply only to claims that have arisen in the past, for example, to the validity of the law which is linked to publication in the Collection of Laws. Because why is it that those who, knowing all the facts and information - plus if we accept the amendment - are going to be very heavily mediated - are going to get that kind of debt? Do they already have a chance to know what would happen to them? So they could profit from this relatively with impunity? I would be against it, and I therefore think that second reading should also be considered, if it is not really here to adopt a legal regime that would limit the possibility of applying the law to claims that arose before the law was effective. It's a thought. Of course, you can object to a number of counterarguments that this is a very non-standard solution. But I think that then the significant counter-argument that we hear from the opposition would fall away, that it is a very bad signal for those who pay their debts, want to pay or do not make any debts at all. And finally, my last reminder of the law. I think it would also be good to make a round table during the second reading, which could organise, for example, a subcommittee of the constitutionally-legal committee responsible in this area, and to discuss it there with those who represent the relatively polarised views, arguments and counter-arguments. I don't think this law should divide society, but it should link society. And the only way I see it is to give it enough space before the final approval. Otherwise, I think the novel should have been here a long time ago. This has failed in the past period, and I am glad that we are dealing with it, and I recommend only to pay attention to its definitive wording. Because it will either be very good in terms of potential debtors and creditors, or it will be very bad. It will signal that debts do not have to be paid, and it will be a signal for creditors that the state will not stand up for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u35	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková, and I have one point of fact before me and one application for debate. My colleague Munzar will be given the floor on a point of fact. Please be patient, I'll read two apologies. Mrs Valachová from 17.15 to the end of the day and Minister Stropnický from 17.45 to the end of the day. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I want to comment on what has been said here by several of my previous speakers. I have listened carefully to what actually leads to this proposal, and I have heard here from many mouths that it is an incentive for these people to return to normal life, to a normal process. I'd like to know an estimate of how many people this is going to involve. My colleague Adamec asked how many people or how many cases of the 835,000 are covered by this law. And I want to know from you where you get the optimism, because I don't quite share it. And I'll tell you why. It's a specific example of the town hall. Seven years ago, we also made an incentive program for debtors of our statutory city that they could work off their debts. Do you know how many of those thousands of cases in nearly 70 thousand cities came to work off their debts? Eleven! After a week, nine of them lasted. After a month, there were five. Those five really worked their ass off. But it really was a pardon for the debtors. That means I certainly don't share the optimism that it's gonna be so great and it's gonna work. Moreover, it is indeed a law where we hand over personal responsibility under the responsibility of the State and the responsibility of others. I think we should be careful in these values. If we really want to take people's personal responsibility and deal with it for them, then we should be very prudent and very careful in our decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u37	I thank Mr Munzar. My colleague, Aulická, will be able to wait. With a factual remark, Mr Marek Výborný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I only wanted to be through you to a colleague of the Válková and to all of you. There is already a seminar under the guarantee of the constitutional law committee, which will take place on 26 April at 12 p.m. in the State Acts and will address the issue of insolvency. So you can note that. This will also be one of the platforms, apart from subcommittees and committees, where even those concerned will be given the floor. This means representatives of creditors, representatives of insolvency administrators, representatives of the Ministry of Justice and, of course, representatives of organisations working in the field with those debtors. Indeed, our ambition is to find a reasonable, fair, balanced compromise. Even that justice is sometimes very complicated. And, of course, I think it would be appropriate to include some institute of exceptions for situations very extreme, such as single mothers, such as a person can be severely ill, who is not really able to pay back anything, and so on. But that's a matter for the discussion. And as I say, the expert at the level of the seminar will take place here on 26 April at 12 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u39	Thank you, Mr Marek Výborný, for keeping time on the point of fact. Mrs Hana Aulická, now duly applied for. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u40	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to make a few remarks about this novel. I've already made a bit of an update of the KSČM's view on this morning's subcommittee on execution, where this amendment was the main point, and I must say that today we will probably support the release for the first reading. Anyway, I'm saying that as the amendment is presented, we don't like it at all, and we can't agree -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u41	I, Madame, will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace. Ladies and gentlemen, please come to a conclusion. I would like the whole debate on this point to take place in a dignified environment. I'd like those who got the word to be heard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u42	I understand now that everyone's tired. I guess today's been a tough day. Anyway, I think that this is an important amendment and that we should listen to what impact it will have, because it is not only socially economic but also other, and it really is not a simple matter. I am from Ústí Region, where we have the most executions in the Czech Republic and more than five executions on average per person. It's a big problem because it affects actually every third citizen in the Ústí Region. And it can be seen that even within the average of the amount of execution, or those debts, these are rather small loans, and it is more or less consistent with the structure of the population's composition. I have to say that even the current possible insolvency that is allowed, that is, within five years of paying 30 percent of the debt, does not bring anything good to society, even though, of course, they are trying to help people out of this debt trap. Anyway, it puts two people in the counterstream, those who borrow and properly repay, and then those who borrow and use this institution to pay only partial debt, or at least 30 percent. And now we're suggesting that after seven years, we don't have to pay 30 percent, even though, of course, I'm not saying that in seven years, this guy doesn't pay anything, but it doesn't have to match the 30 percent that are set up, and I don't think it really brings anything great within the company. [[17.50 hours]] We've said some things that should be set. There will probably be mountains of amendments on us. I think they're all ready for you across the political spectrum. Of course, amendments are also prepared from our workshop. But what I'd like to say is that any over-drawing is actually a gamble. It is a gamble with the confidence of the population of the state in justice, with the principle of responsibility for their actions and the principle of equality before the law. And it may have a possible impact on those who properly repay that they would actually lose their payment morale. And those who don't pay back wouldn't even get paid morale. I would like to say that I believe that even if they are released for the first reading, the time limit for the hearing, which is already announced for about 80 days, will be extended, so this will be discussed. [[second]] I am pleased that there will also be a seminar announced on 26 April and that there will be enough information to do this across the political spectrum and that experts will listen to each other. However, we are very concerned about this material, as it was presented, and I do not think that in this form, as the Ministry of Justice has presented it, it would have any benefits to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u43	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická. Now, my colleague Leo Luzar, who is still in the debate, and I am still counting on the rapporteur, who announced the proposal in the debate in his opening speech. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I was told a moment ago that I was unlucky to be in a region where there is no execution. Just the Moravian-Silesian region belongs to those regions affected by this phenomenon of the new era. The solution to executions is one of the big and complex problems. However, we must say what the objective should be. In my opinion, this amendment only goes in one direction. We can say - the aim is to facilitate administration of executions, debt management. Then I would probably understand the direction of some of the proposals in this law. Or, on the contrary, is the goal of helping certain people who have fallen into a debt trap to reboot? But moving these two things together is probably not a very good solution. I have a case from my county, which, for example, is quite troubling to me personally, because I really appreciate the lady who talked to me about it. He's an old-timer, so I guess we see that the pension, because the pension law is a little steep with the old-timers, doesn't have enough to live happily and decently, yet he pays 500 crowns a month for his grandson. He's paying back. I'm stressing the word pays back. The grandson's trying, if I have information, he didn't take another loan and he's trying. But I ask - how does this law respond to this, that all debtors, when they take loans from the banking or non-bank sector, enter a certain information system that has different names, I don't want to advertise here, and it's tested? How, then, can such a person have four, five, if not ten such loans? How is it possible that these institutions lend it to him? In other words, if this proposal were to lead to the fact that those who are irresponsiblely lending, those banks and non-bank institutions that are irresponsiblely lending to the third, fourth and others, they would lose the money they put in, I would agree with that. That's what I'm willing to sign immediately, because that's the way these poor people are trying to make money off of. The second question is, there's the first one, there's the second one. The man had some need and borrowed it. And there should probably be some model here, how to get the money, the responsibility out of these people, and just say yes, there's a first debt, you should pay it back because you borrowed it with some kind of consciousness. There are then some diseases, social diseases, etc. taken into account. But the first debt, I'll take it. The next ones from the third, I'd be able to do that automatically to really leave it at the expense of the people they lent them. Another problem that is not mentioned here at all is debts that arise between individuals, even among relatives, which end up in the process of execution. But if we forgive this, we're gonna build a pretty serious problem of interpersonal relationships in families here. This is a problem that has not been mentioned here at all, and I consider it quite serious, because the inter-family debts are, in my opinion, considerably more than the others that we don't even know about. That's the tip of the iceberg that's getting into executions. So it's a problem that's immersed in that society much deeper than the petitioners suggest. Just suggest that seven years 30 percent, I'm not talking about years, I'm talking about percentages. This, of course, is a floating number and is not categorical. It is possible, but in my opinion it does not solve the fundamental problem of how the execution was created, who was feeding on it and where it could end. The statistics that the previous speakers called for would probably be good. Knowing the distribution of society, and what really are the lost souls that the petitioner is heading to save them and pull them out of those debt traps, and what it takes to rely on that to happen. Today, unfortunately, in our country too - I don't want to say sports, it's definitely not a sport, but those debtors are counting on it. That he's counting on going into insolvency. He's taking a loan knowing he'll be guarded for five years. He's already setting up some kind of procedure so he can get the money out of it like he's on the sidelines, and he's counting on the fact that the insolvency already exists today and that most of it's admitted. I think it's a pretty serious problem to send out a signal to society that these people seem to be staying out of it. That we're just taking them. And I wouldn't like that. So I would turn to the petitioners here to consider the trends and variations in the distribution of those debts. First, second, third and subsequent. If this could appear here in the proposal and think about it, or if they even thought about it, and if they haven't figured it out, it's a marginal issue that doesn't really pay off. I really don't know. I think we're gonna need those seminars here. I would like not to create a certain after-law in society. That would be very, very bad, and it could eventually turn against those poor debtors - and I stress to those poor people, not to those who have made it into something, I don't want to say business, but at least they rely on the possibility of slipping out of this here in the future. čili I support this proposal for second reading, but I firmly believe that it will be sufficiently discussed and those options will be considered by the petitioners. Because I don't consider a quick bill to be right on this rather complex issue, and I'm pointing out the risks that are at least there for me and the neighborhood that I'm from. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u45	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. Now, Mr Marek Benda, duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u46	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be very brief, because a lot has passed. The problem is that the matter is extremely complex. Now, in front of me, my previous speaker Leo Luzar spoke of the first, second, third debt. But how do I know it's loans? If the third, fourth, fifth, seventh debt isn't a debt to a community of unit owners or someone who's just as innocent in it, he didn't lend anything to him, but it just stopped paying off. I think that if we left more jurisdiction to the courts and didn't come up with some very important things that we would say, "it's possible to break the 30 percent threshold and it mustn't be zero," that nothing special would have happened. [[18.00 hours]] One statement. The insolvency law is so incredibly complex and written in such an incredibly skeleton language that no one normal can know about it anymore. It's just for specialized lawyers and maybe sometimes some insolvency administrator or bankruptcy administrator or executor. And I'm not saying it's the current minister's fault, but only when we look at it, I'm reading - I think I'm pretty good at reading the legal texts over the years - and I don't know what they're saying. I don't know what they're saying. So I'm pointing out that if we deserve anything, it's an enormous simplification of procedural rules, especially in the field of bankruptcy and insolvency. All the steps that were brought into this in the years and all were, let's say, carried by some healthy reasoning, love for people, good intentions, and now it was calculated, where a chair and a toy should no longer be cashed in, and other things like that - it only led to infinite complexity. Then there's one thing that made me a little angry with the Minister and I want to mention here. In the previous version in Section 398, where there was an inexpensive dwelling, as far as it relates to some multiple of the average rental value, there was a hundred times, it started to count, it turned out that in Prague it was based on gigantic amounts, so all the Ministry did was say it wouldn't be in the law, but we're going to make it a decree. So it doesn't look so obvious that it doesn't look like it's coming out of it and that you can count the final amount from it. I think this is totally unfair. That if we want to set something like this, there's no reason for it not to be laid down in the law. This is typically not a decree thing. Especially if it evolves according to the variable price on the market, which undoubtedly rent is the floating price on the market that is falling, it is supposed to be a multiple. I have absolutely no idea why it should be under the authority of executives that the executive should say: and yet here it will be and in Ústí it will be twenty times and in Prague it will be three or thirty times, it can even be locally different or it can not be locally different. And when I have already come across this section 398, I will just read the last sentence and ask the Minister how he would interpret it: "Unless otherwise specified, for the purpose of the settlement under paragraph 3" - that is to say, it will first be sold - "the property substance does not belong to the property acquired by the debtor in the course of insolvency proceedings after the effects of the debt approval have occurred." I don't really know what that means, but if they approve of my debt and I inherit $100 million, then suddenly I don't have to pay it? I'm only quoting this because I think those sentences are really desperately incomprehensible to everyone. They then have some other conditions, yet clause 409 paragraph 3 is not affected, 409 paragraph 3 you will read that what I bought for the money that was left to me I can keep, but what if I fall into some inheritance? What if I win in an athlete in the meantime, in the course of insolvency proceedings, when the effects of debt relief have occurred? So I don't have to pay back from that? And that doesn't have to be a small amount at all. So I'm just pointing out that there's a lot of problems. But what I think is absolutely essential is that we don't let the government, except for all the reservations that have been made and which will undoubtedly lead to a rewrite in a rather fundamental way, but the idea that we leave the government to authority, how many times the average rent is supposed to be the unforgivable amount, seems to me that we could then say: insolvency is governed by the government's decree to issue it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u47	I thank Mr Marek Benda. This was the last duly entered into the debate and I therefore ask the rapporteur if he wants to go into the debate, as he announced in his opening speech, because it was not in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u48	All I wanted was what I was asked to do. I proposed an extension of the deadline in the news. I have to do this now in a proper debate, so I propose extending the time limit for committee discussions by 20 days, which means 80 days under Section 91 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u49	Thank you, rapporteur. I have noted and asked if anyone else wants to speak in the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in the final words. The Minister is interested in the final word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the debate that has been held here today, and I would like to thank all the clubs and, of course, those Members who make them, who have promised the release of this law to the second reading. I think the law really deserves it. At the same time, I also want to thank you for all the well-intentioned suggestions on its possible adjustments, and I can promise you, and those who have experience from the last parliamentary term know that it will not be an empty promise that we will definitely talk about them seriously during the comitology period. For this reason too, I also agree with the proposal to extend the time limit for committee discussions. I'm not saying we'll be able to accept all these proposals. At the same time, I think that many of them, when we discuss them in more detail, maybe what we at least think will come out, because we have thought about many of these things that, for one reason or another, if we look further at the issue, these things need not be dealt with in this way. Typically, I predict it is an example of separating and otherwise solving the principal and accessories. We know from case reports, many case reports, which we have from various debt meetings, that at different stages of falling into debt traps, so-called. Recrediting where what was originally an accessory becomes a principal, and if we even start counting on it in the law, it becomes a rule, because, of course, the legal regulation has an effect on the behaviour of the users of the law in practice. After all, the best example or proof of this is what has been said here today, which means that the average amount of debt to debt is 600 to 800 thousand crowns. Ladies and gentlemen, if it really were debts in the sense that he ever lent it to someone, we would have to focus our attention primarily on creditors when it comes to financial literacy. I've been teaching it my whole life. Because private law is virtually nothing more than that it is a creditor who primarily carries the risk of insolvency of his debtor, the insolvency of his debtor, and he has a number of instruments in that private law, with which he can limit this risk in various ways. And if there were creditors who would average the debtor into an unsecured position of CZK 600 to 800,000, they would be fools and would have gone bankrupt long ago. What's he saying? It says the same thing that we know from the case reports: that these are mostly accessories and other things that the original debts have grown on, and often, even though many of those debtors, almost all those debtors have paid a lot in the time of the forfeiture. Because they were approached by various people, enforcers, later executors. [[18.10 hours]] These are the cases, as was also said here: a pensioner who pays CZK 500 per month for her grandson. I wouldn't want to see the footage of those Mobiliar executions where an executor comes to such a pensioner, starts taking her property, and she says, "I pay 500 crowns every month! And the bailiff says, "Yeah, ma'am, that's nice, but the debt was $40,000, and every month it grows by $1,500. So the 500 crowns you're paying back, it's really nice that you're paying back, but it's not enough. So that's the real story. And as far as financial literacy is concerned, according to the Ministry of Finance surveys, less than half of the people show good or even excellent financial literacy in our country. And yet, when you say good financial literacy, it's not a miracle either, because according to the same survey and other similar 80 percent of our citizens can't tell, even though it has all the data that is cheapest in the loans offered, 60 percent can't explain what an RPSN is. That's not a few people, that's most people. And that's basic stuff. I could talk for a long time, and I think we're gonna talk about this a lot and a long time, but at this point, there's only one thing I'd like to do. I would like to address Mr Feri over there through Mr President and other Members who have said that this is some kind of gamble, because it is extremely comfortable for those debtors to go ahead and for seven years they will simply live in debt, and then chop him, all those debts will disappear. And that's why they're gonna run to all the banks now, and they're gonna borrow the $5,000 they're gonna lend them, total $50,000, and then they're gonna do this for it. Let's go - such a challenge, my colleague - let's try to live a month off of this unforgivable minimum. Not seven years. The moon! And let's put the rest of the money we make on something good. For example, I have now discovered such a beautiful foundation that provides scholarships to young Rom people to educate themselves. And we know that education and financial literacy are related. And I call on everyone here to say it's some kind of moral hazard. Let him try living with me for a month. We'll start from the new moon. Thank you, and I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u51	I thank the Minister for the final word. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word, so we will vote on individual proposals. I'm gonna sing. I'll check you all out. Please register with your identification cards to find out exactly how to vote, and we will decide on the proposals that have been made in the debate. First, we will vote on the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. The motion to dismiss didn't fall. So, when the number of Members is settled, we will decide in the vote number 97 on the motion for a return. I have begun the vote and I ask who is in favour of returning the applicants to work. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 97, out of 163 present, for 24, against 118, the proposal was not accepted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment of the Committee on Constitutional Law as a guarantee committee, in the '98 vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 98, from 165 in favour of 162, against no one, the proposal was adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss a committee of constitutional law as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, but in the debate, Mr Bauer proposed a Committee on Social Policy. That is what we will decide in the '99 vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the Social Policy Committee's commandments. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 99, from the present 165 for 88, against 21, the proposal was adopted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the next committee for discussion, namely the Committee on Social Policy. Now we will vote on the proposal... the Economic Committee, I'm sorry, I'm not marked, I haven't been driving all this time. In that case, of course...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u52	I think now is a good time, so instead of Mr Bauer, because I have priority rights, so we are still proposing an economic, budgetary and public administration committee. I think that all these committees are really concerned about this issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-20-ps2017-007-07-010-025.u53	Okay, so the Committee of Economics, Committee of Budget, Committee of Public Administration. So now we will vote on the Economic Committee's commandment, in the vote number 100 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 100, from 165 in favour of 42, against 83, has not been accepted. The Committee on Budgets will decide in the vote number 101, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the Committee on Budgets. Who opposes the commandment of the Committee on Budgets? Thank you. Voting order number 101, from 165 in favour of 45, against 80, has not been approved by this committee either. Now the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development in the vote number 102, which I have launched, I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 102, from 165 in favour of 42, against 85, has not been adopted by this committee either. We will now vote on the proposal to extend the deadline for discussion of 20 days, as stated in the debate with the agreement of the petitioner, in the vote number 103, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 103, from 165 in favour of 160, against 2, has been adopted by that committee. [[on board 0]] I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has been directed to the Committee of Constitutional Law as a committee of guarantee, that it has been ordered by the Committee on Social Policy and that its term of reference has been extended by 20 days to 80 days. I thank the Minister, and I thank the rapporteur, and I finish point 25. We will continue on the agenda, by item number
