ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u1	173. Information on the meeting of the delegation of the Chamber of Deputies on 14. - 16 October 2018 in the Russian Federation I ask that the authorised representatives of the plaintiffs of this paragraph, Mrs Věra Adámková, take the floor. But with priority rights, I have here the application from the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Radek Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u2	Good evening. I thought it appropriate that I speak first on this point. I've got some time, I've assumed a longer contribution, I'm gonna try to shorten it for some humane reasons, we've been here all day. On the one hand, I must say that when I have listened to some of the comments made by the commentators or the plaintiffs of this point, I am thinking of words such as ignorance, incompetence, but to such an extent that they are equally striking as insulting to me. But I've been here for five years, so I can move on and try to inform the Chamber of Deputies in some constructive way about my trip to the Russian Federation. The answer's a little wider. I would perhaps be more comfortable if the proposal was passed by a representative of the pirate party, who was called 'the parliamentary diplomacy of the President of the Chamber of Deputies', who may have responded more, but I will therefore remain within the limits of the information on the visit of the Russian Federation. All bad for something good. So, on the other hand, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak to you about any foreign trips by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and to introduce you to a part of your work that maybe some of you have no idea of the extent to which it is taking place. After all, even I had no idea when I joined my post and took it over from my predecessor. The only way into... Or, at least briefly: I have always based on the concept of foreign relations that it is good to have good relations with my neighbours, so I have met with all the presidents of the surrounding countries. We are very active within the Visegrad Group, e.g. I had nine bilateral meetings at the Tallinn Summit, and at this time I have met with an absolute majority of all the Presidents of Parliaments of the European Union and I am trying to develop these personal relations. The journey to Russia itself was approved by the Organising Committee properly, 27. 6. 2018. There was only one additional question from Vice-President Pikal, who was answered with regard to the Health Committee's agenda, and the Vice-President thanked for the excellent information on the screen recording and the two representatives of the pirate party voted for the trip to the Russian Federation. This journey was then discussed at the second Organising Committee on the point of Miscellaneous, where President Bartošek and President Kalousek spoke, where I gave them an explanation of how the programme would look and how I intend to perform on this trip to Russia. This journey was one of the best and most planned in my work. We spent more time perhaps just preparing our trip to the United States, to the United States Congress, where after 23 years I was the first official state visit to invite my counterpart Paul Ryan, whom you remember, who was here in the House, and I also consider this trip to be the most important one in my work so far. Behind every foreign route is a sea of work that you may not even see, employees of protocol, employees of the Chamber of Deputies. And I'd just like to start by saying, "Let's get a picture of what's going on before this journey takes place." We were the first to ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in writing to provide us with certain theories on what can be discussed in Russia. These thesis - for interest, this is what it looks like, this is the material I received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[shows]] And then if you go after the individual points, you'll find that I've dealt with all these theories in accordance with the material provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have asked the Department of International Relations of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to consult and provide documentation. We asked the Office of the President of the Republic to provide us with information on the results of the Czech-Russian Forum, which was created on the basis of the initiative of President Zeman, and so-called. follow-up, which followed the meeting of this Czech-Russian forum. We asked for e.g. on the minutes of the President's trip in 2017, so that we can have an idea of what the President discussed in detail. There was e-mail correspondence regarding the case of the statue of Koněv, in case it happened to be a turn for this case in the Russian Federation. A meeting was held with a representative of the Russian-Ukrainian Department. There was a meeting with Deputy Minister Tlapa on the economic relationship of the Russian Federation. There was a meeting with an official for the Russian Federation. There was an operational communication with the embassy in Moscow on the content of the negotiations. There was communication regarding the notes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the Russian Federation's recourse to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to help return refugees to Syria. There were about five meetings with representatives of the Memorial civic association in the Czech Republic, Man in Need, those meetings were about five. That's just a fraction of what happens before every trip. At the same time, there were above-standard consultations and a briefing with the Ambassador on the spot. These were very detailed because, of course, this visit was difficult because no Czech President was in Russia for ten years, the Foreign Minister 13 years and the last meeting of prime ministers took place during Prime Minister Nečas' reign. The program itself was formed with the same care. I will respond to the fact that I have heard in the media that someone may have been misinformed. Please, you must know this book. That's a mint, that's what every member of the delegation has, I'm sure you've gotten it a lot, because you're also traveling abroad. [[shows]] [[18.50 hours]] As to the objections, this diary was not provided in advance. Please, this diary is not provided in advance because it says for a minute where the constitutional officer is located. Therefore, for security reasons, this information is not provided in advance. If there's a private breakfast written in the mintbook, I haven't made any meetings with the representatives of the atomic lobby. I had breakfast with my fellow Members in the Czech House. I'm looking at one here. [[Messenger. Yanulík.]] I think this road is connected to more rumours, and I don't know how else to describe it politely than it is healthy. The programme itself was conceived as a balanced one. I have not met with any protest note, no objection to any of our allies or partners. On the contrary, I have spent a lot of time discussing, for example, the Austrian President of Parliament, Wolfgang Sobotka, who is going to the Russian Federation in November. Of course he'll meet his counterpart as chairman. I spoke with the Polish marshal, I was inspired by a visit from the Dutch Senate President, who also met with the same persons as me. There was a Španěl, there were members of the Bundestag who played with the Russian house football. Some of the objections I picked up in the paper are quite smiling, because if it is argued that the Bundestag represented the Vice-President in Russia during the football game and not the President, then why was that? Since President Schäuble is an invalid and doesn't play football, there was a vice-chairman. So I think some of the comments were undignified. My French counterpart de Rugy, whom I met personally, became Minister of the Environment in the meantime, and the meeting did not take place in January. But also the French President of Parliament will visit the Russian Federation. So very briefly. The program itself consisted not only of the two meetings with Mrs Matvijenka and Mr Volodin, but I consider it very beneficial to see my meeting with the students of MGMO University, I consider it very important that I was able to open and open an exhibition about our legionaries in Russia, all in a situation where a story about G Masaryk and our legionaries came out in a very negative light in Russia a few days before our visit. And this exhibition took place in the State Museum of Modern History, which is a great success, and I am convinced that if I had not supported this exhibition with my personal presence and shielded it as President, this exhibition would probably not have taken place on these premises. That's, say, the informative part of my performance. Now I'd say the other one, educational one, educational one. The whole visit is based, among other things, on the concept of foreign policy approved by the government in 2015. I will quote: "The Czech foreign policy will, in its current state, seek constructive cooperation with the Russian Federation, particularly in the economic and cultural area, and the widest possible contact with Russian civil society. The long-term objective is to overcome current problems and reach partner relations." So much quote valid foreign policy concept of the Czech Republic in relation to the Russian Federation. If it is argued that perhaps part of our visit should have been a request for an apology, which I also caught in the media, I would like to point out that as the Czech Republic, we have already accepted a friendship agreement with the Russian Federation. The treaty was discussed here in 1993. And once again, I can quote to you, Article 9: "Special attention will be paid to expanding relations between parliaments. The Contracting Parties shall create favourable conditions for direct contacts and cooperation at the level of republics, regions and other self-governing localities, cities and municipalities on all matters belonging to their respective competences.'; The Treaty itself contains the following text in the preamble: "Wishing to put an end to the totalitarian past associated with the unacceptable use of force against Czechoslovakia in 1968 and to the further inexcusable continuation of Soviet troops on the Czechoslovak territory, the material consequences of which are dealt with by the relevant agreement." So not only was there an apology in the days of Boris Jelcin, we also have a contract that states the legality and illegitimateness of our cast in 1968. These are all the facts I wanted you to meet. The third document that everyone should study before they start talking and criticizing our relations with the Russian Federation is the Council of Europe's decision. That's the penalty list. It says here: "Member States shall take the necessary measures to prevent or transit through their territories." That's all there is to it... And then there's the part about freezing financial operations. If the EU, if the European Council wanted to put these people in a curse and that they could not be met, it would certainly say so. The interpretation that some in the Czech Republic take is completely inadequate and does not correspond to the will of all Member States. I have here for interest - again these are all lists of visits to the Russian Federation. [[He's pointing.]] There were 48 visits from 10 May to 20 June by EU senior officials. And I've deducted the football, I think. If I deduct football, it still means that every week, two to three EU politicians visit Russia. Let us not try to give the impression that the Russian Federation is isolated and that there is no dialogue. On the contrary, individual countries, especially Western European countries, maintain very working and intensive contacts with the Russian Federation. I was in Paris last week. In France, the National Assembly has a special large committee for cooperation with the Russian Parliament, meeting regularly. As I said, their chairman will be going to Russia soon. We hurt ourselves trying to be more papal than the Pope. We do not defend enough Czech interests, and the purpose of my journey was nothing more than to level up the pace and to cope with countries such as Germany, France, the Netherlands. I would pause to visit the President of the Senate of the Netherlands in Russia. Consider how big and painful they have an open question about a shot down plane. Yet, they visit and still act together. All these visits convict those who claim that the penalty list is something else, that it is a ban to conduct basic diplomacy and meet at work level. The third part of my performance, which I'm really shortening due to late hours, I don't want to bother you here, but I've prepared my homework very carefully and I'm ready to answer individual questions, so the third part would just respond to some statements. I am convinced that I will never, probably never satisfy all my statements in Russia. For some group, perhaps the only satisfying statement would be if I actually declared war there. I really feel offended if someone claims that I performed there in a Lokaan or humiliated position. It's not true. There are records from these meetings. I am the first President of the Chamber of Deputies to clearly declare the position of the Czech Republic as an ally, a member of NATO and an EU member country. I said the words Skripal, Ukraine and opened these questions. Who does not believe this, can find Twitter Russian Houses, where Mrs Matvijenko directly states that Mr Vondráček spoke about these topics. And my mandate is not for me to address these issues there, of course. We deal with these issues together with our partners. However, we have agreed with our counterparts that we can have a mutually beneficial working dialogue. [[19.00 hours]] And of course, the visit itself supported the acceleration of e.g. the appointment of our Ambassador, who handed over the credentials, which had not been successful for several months before. President Putin issued a statement before our arrival that he had unblocked the commission between our Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Russian Ministry of Economy. With this preliminary request, we went to Moscow. So the most important dimension of our relationships can begin to work. And the discussion with businesses in Russia has really shown the neglect of our relations and has shown problems. One of the greatest benefits of my trip, I consider my meeting with Czech entrepreneurs, their real experience from the Russian Federation, how the Čech are doing there. We have investments there, we have many Czech representatives who are highly valued in their fields. In line with the Czech Government's policy, which includes human rights policy, I included in my visit and the support of a project by the Memorial civic association, which I took over at a time when I had not thought about going to Russia. The project is called Last Address. We actually placed a memorial plaque on the house, where it was towed and subsequently executed by Čech Václav Pilař. It's a deep human story, plus when I learned on the spot that two more of his siblings were executed. For your information, the German Environment Minister met with the school class in Red Square, informally met with a comic and critic, Mockridge Luk Mockridge, German Foreign Minister met with the Human Rights Watch organization. I feel good company with my project, which I'm proud of, with the Last Address, and I'm proud of my patronage. So far, no top representative of the Czech Republic has done so. I also consider it important to have my debate at MGIMO School, where 200 students came to meet me. The whole first row were Czech students, there were eight of them. They were very interested in meeting the President of the Chamber of Deputies. There were students in Bohemian studies. And these are the people who will one day hold high positions in Russian diplomacy. I consider it the best message I could give there when I discussed and exchanged experiences with them. Of course, the journey was difficult, I always said, "Keep your guard up, you need to watch every word." And you can't stop a statement from ever being taken out of context. On the other hand, I want to assure you, and you can ask my colleagues who were in that delegation with me that everything has always been properly explained. And there's a little bit of hidden humor in it, if our media, which normally calls such a Sputnik a disinformation medium, now take these statements and argue against our visit. You can't really control something like that anymore, it's an attack from all sides. I don't know what else to say. The whole motto of our visit was one - we don't have to agree, but it's good to talk to each other. But that's why you have to go. I am convinced that this visit from the point of view of some hierarchical separation within Russia was important, that the fact that I was there personally as chairman meant that a better and better programme had been achieved for our health committee as well. I suppose one of us will still be talking about it. We certainly didn't get into anything there, it is certainly okay that the Czech President of the Parliamentary Chamber defends Czech interests in Russia. I heard an objection about why one of the Vice-Presidents didn't go there, perhaps why Vice-President Filip didn't go there. With all due respect to the Vice-President, who certainly also always defends Czech interests in the Russian Federation, I do not think it is appropriate that only one parliamentary club and one party should have a monopoly on our relations with the Russian Federation. I think it's good that the chairman went there. And I'm at every meeting, especially under the impression of a discussion in the Organizing Committee, where I respect the objections, for example. Mr Kalousek, who sees symbolism in this, I have always stressed that I am a representative of Parliament, who has passed free elections, and we have nine political parties and a movement and we differ in opinion. But this is also the Russian Duma, and this is where the opposition works, and it is therefore important for parliamentary diplomacy to work, so that these parliaments communicate with each other. I consider this to be the most appropriate instrument for us to be able to have a dialogue with Russia. I could quote here the President of the Dutch Senate, who said that parliamentary diplomacy is ideal for opening up and solving difficult questions. I fully underline that, and I totally agree with that. The last objection I recall from my head that I didn't bring with me a journalist and that there was no telling what was going on on that trip. Here's a simple answer. Moscow is covered by public media. At the end of each meeting a representative of Czech Radio and Czech Television was present. I didn't have to take them with me. I only took the reporters once, on my way to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, because there was no media coverage. Or should I have taken representatives of media other than Czech Television and Czech Radio? Was I supposed to take someone from Bakalův's media there to make sure it was balanced? I must strongly, strongly oppose it. These people were there asking questions, and of course they have an overview of what was going on there. The question was that I wasn't supposed to meet the President, but maybe the Vice-President. I would consider it a reduction in the weight of the Czech Republic if I, as chairman, met the Vice-President. It would be undignified from my point of view. If I hadn't met the Prime Minister, I wouldn't have gone to Russia. I have always met the President of Parliament in all the countries in which I have been. It was my second trip to the committee. I did so for the first time in Japan, and because I was with the Defence Committee, meetings with the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of Parliament, and even Crown Prince Naruhit, who will be Emperor next year. All of this is helped by the presence of the President of the Chamber of Deputies and, especially in some countries, great emphasis is placed on this. In conclusion, the journey, our mission, has succeeded. Both the Health Committee agenda and the Education Committee agenda and my meeting with my counterparts has been successful and will now depend on individual ministries, groups of friends, for example. in our House, in the various committees, how this cooperation will continue. It might need to calm down the hysteria a little, because the meeting was actually an initial, courteous one, it had no intention of solving anything, but it supported such important things as the Czech-Russian discussion forum, which should, of course, also deal with our history, and, of course, its aim should be to open archives and discuss controversial historical moments. I therefore respond to Mr Zaorálek's objection, who spoke about this on Czech television. That's exactly what we were doing there. So, after comparing our relationships to zero, I now think we have a better chance of protecting the interests of Czech citizens and the Czech state in Russia. It's up to us. I have about 12 pages of text, and I see dissenting head movements, so I'd rather let others talk. I'm really ready, and I think I'm well prepared, and despite the late hour, I'm ready to respond to all the questions you ask me. But once again, I would like to retreat strongly against critics who add with one breath that they don't really know what we were talking about, and that we weren't supposed to act there at all. It was precisely for what I just told you that we should have acted there. Thank you for your attention. I think you'll hear me again this evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u3	Good evening, honourable Members. I thank the President of the Chamber of Deputies. And since it was a stand-off, I am asking Mrs Adámková if she wants to go to the opening, even if she is duly enrolled in the debate. Do you have the opening word? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was prepared for the opening vote, but since President Vondráček has taken the floor, I have, of course, applied for the debate. My introductory word would be a summary of the fact that this trip was a routine route for representatives of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. She's been duly approved by the Organizing Committee, so I don't quite understand some things here. But perhaps it is because we are here briefly and are not accustomed to everything that is happening in the Chamber of Deputies. I believe that it is absolutely essential for the opening, very neglected bilateral relations, whatever country it is, to be spoken in general, to be driven by the senior representatives of Parliament. Because individual committees do not stand a chance in those countries where there is a slightly different system of, say, international relations to meet people who can influence things throughout the Republic. Whether it's the Russian Federation or other countries. I must say that I was very glad that we could accompany President Vondráček. In addition to his meeting with businessmen and his interview at MGIMO, I was present to everyone. Because we had a professional meeting at the time, so we didn't exactly cover up. And I have to say that I was very proud of the way he acted, because I think I'm old enough to be a fairly good observer of people. It's part of my profession, too. And for me, the most important thing was that both diplomats and politicians, whether it's Mrs. Matvijenko or Mr. Volodin, are very experienced, seasoned, and certainly not soft. And in both of those eyes, after President Vondráček spoke to them, I saw respect. Because they understood that there was an absolutely equal, proud representative of Parliament of his country, where, as he said, we do not have to agree, but we are talking - so he really talked - about everything. And he was the first of all the diplomats in the Western world to give you the term novice. Nobody said that before him. Not the Bundestag, not the Francouz, not the Ital, nobody. And I would very much like it if we were here to be correct and not really do some things that are based on sympathy, antipathy towards individual political subjects. Because we can be really proud of our chairman, because no one else has ever said it, even when they were playing football. And otherwise, about visiting the Bundestag. First of all, they maintain very good friendly relationships based on really not only diplomatic ones, but also friendly ones, and the Bundestag goes there again in a few weeks. They meet with all those who are so-called on the penalty list. And the penalty list - I asked about it in the Bundestag, that is, their legislation, two days ago, because I wanted to be clear about it. Of course I don't know everything. And they said that it meant to them that they did not do business with them, not that they did not visit them. So then it's good if we really match our steps. Mr Vondráček repeated twice that we are part of the European Union, that we are part of NATO, that we are fulfilling our commitments to our allies, and he said specifically to Mr Volodin: perhaps you will understand. And of course he said yes. And again, in his eyes, there was respect, because no one had ever spoken to him that clearly before. I just want to say that we went there to discuss medical matters, of course. And without accompanying the President, we would not have agreed what is very important to our people, and these are serious health problems, whether it is our citizens who work there or are going there as tourists. And unfortunately, I have to say, what really surprised me. The information pool at our embassy is very poor. They really don't want to, but they currently can't give our citizens, whatever the reason they're there, valid information because they just don't have it. Well, that wasn't a very good finding for me, but it's true. So, of course, we've already started to do a certain system in the health sector so that they can advise our citizens on serious, I repeat, serious disability. Of course, I spoke with both the Committee on Health of the Russian Duma and representatives of the Ministry of Health and, of course, at the level of two major institutes of expertise for both surgical and internal fields. So, if anyone would like to ask you anything about that, I'll tell you anything, of course, professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u5	I thank the appellants' representative and open the debate in which my colleague, Mr Janulík, is the first to sign up. At the same time, I will ask him to become rapporteur for this point because he is the first performer. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u6	Yes, thank you. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, well, it was probably rather exhausting. I don't have much to add to that. Just maybe a few subjective observations about it. I don't think it deserves the attention that gets it at all. If it deserves the attention, it's only in a positive sense. Because what I experienced there, what I saw there, and how we performed there, how we felt about leaving, I'm proud of it. Not that, as I heard somewhere, we should be ashamed and that it was humiliating and shameful. This is a real outrage from some of our colleagues' mouths! I'm really begging you. Because the whole impression that we're there - and I assume it'll confirm that it's not just my subjective impression - that we left behind is highly positive. We have not avoided the way many others hypocritically pretend that these issues do not exist, so our chairman mentioned the topics. Even the President of the Duma appreciated it and said yes, that these are simply questionable points. But we won't pretend they don't exist. We just said which ones, at least the main ones, and that's just how it is, that's life. But that can't stop us from meeting on business. By the way, I assure you that I have convinced myself that Europe is really knocking the door down there, one delegation after another. Many of them do business there, even though there are sanctions. I would really recommend, for example, to my colleagues from the right, to ask entrepreneurs, because they like to defend entrepreneurs, what is the opinion of our entrepreneurs who are doing Russia in this. Because, of course, they have that tangible daily experience of how sanctions can be passed on by Italian, French or German companies in particular. So we're more papal in this sense than the Pope is, and we're going to defend the indefensible again, and when it comes down to the census, we're going to find out that we're somewhere deep in the back. We were really just trying to catch up with our partners from the European Union. That said very cleverly that we are simply an unwavering part of the Union and NATO, and we are clearly readable to our partners. In that sense, all your objections are completely odd. Then I have to give my impression. After many decades, I have visited Moscow, and it is incredible how a country can change. But what did it take to hear the questions about why the Health Committee was there? Well, I'd say to some colleagues, especially fellow doctors. We were at the Vishnev Institute. All those who have at least their first surgery exam know what the Višněvský balm is. He was an excellent surgeon who, of course, gained those enormous surgical experiences during the wartime. As in many other countries, war surgeons are the best doctors in civilian life. And then he set up an excellent institute that's really top-notch. So we've seen all the data, we've gone over it, we've been really, really, really surprised. The other institute we saw was a cardiological or cardiosurgery institute, where there are 5,000 open-heart surgeries a year. You can imagine what that number means, colleagues of the doctor. So the academic himself accepted us, Professor Bokerija, and we saw how they were working, what they were working on, what they were working with. And I will tell you that my impression is that Europe has tried to cut Russia off, but I feel that Russia has rather cut Europe off. Because America certainly didn't act like this. Because at least these medical institutes that we have seen are completely equipped from the United States at prices significantly lower than from the European Union and are equipped at a top level. Their doctors are in the best American clinics, like Mayo Clinic and so on. And on the contrary, Američan go to them. [[19.20 hours]] Of course, we also discussed that maybe our young doctors could go there immediately after graduation or in the basic tribe to learn things that we can only know from books, because of course they encounter medical cases that we no longer have a chance to see, and we probably will never be able to see more than, of course, in any random way. One cannot gain any experience or routine in this, and if one can get to know it anywhere else in the world, it is only an asset to our patients. Of course, the point is that there really is a large number of our citizens living and working there, I will mention, for example, entrepreneurs who solve the daily problems that bring life, i.e. the disease, the injury, and they are not at all comfortable there, and therefore for a long time, and of course they have been more or less neglected by our state from this point of view. I have to say, I'm very surprised at the level, the excellent level of our embassy, that's a really incredible area, and of course we have an excellent representative there. Mr. Ambassador Excelence Pivoňka was very pleased that someone was finally there at this level to see how it was there, and to somehow elevate relations to a level that is adequate, at least to the one that the other states have for example the twenty-sevens, the twenty-eights, or at least the decisive ones. To see it negatively, I really consider it a dehonestation. I could continue here for hours and hours on the positives. Of course, I didn't notice a lot of negatives. Of course, I am, as the President said, always on the alert, because of course I belong to a generation that I do not have the best experience with it personally, so that the Russian bear needs to be observed carefully and not be lulled, but it certainly does not mean, I would say especially to colleagues who are briefly and the world perceives mainly virtually that it is necessary to lift their head from computers and monitors and go somewhere to look. And I'll tell them Russia was here, it is, and it will be. We can't pretend it's not. It's a huge country. The area is shocking, perhaps thanks to large spaces, of course, in their primary medical care, there are completely different standards and conditions. Trying to implement our view of the matter is a little misleading. Because their patients may have completely different distances, then they see the disease at completely different stages, etc., etc. That's a purely specific question. But the criticisms I've heard so far are really, I'd say a lot off. So, like I said here years ago, you cry nicely on someone else's grave, but you didn't even hit the cemetery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u7	I thank Mr Janulík. It will become the rapporteur for this point. I ask if my colleague Adámková wants to speak in the debate. That's right. Before I give her my word, I'll read the apology received by the Prime Minister of the House. He apologizes until the end of the day, Vice-President Okamura, Mrs Šlechtová from 8.15 to 19.00, respectively. on account of a visit by the doctor, Mrs Matušovská from 18.50 until the end of the day, Mrs Jarošová for personal reasons until the end of the day and Mr Bláha also until the end of the day. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one more time, so that we can say specific things to each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u9	I'm sorry, Madam. As I read the apologies, I forgot my colleague Benešík's factual comment. I apologize to him. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact. Okay. If you wait, then... [[The appointment of Members outside the microphones.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u10	Thank you. I apologize for the mess, but I applied electronically. I'd just like a short gloss for what was said here. I think it was a good thing that President Vondráček got off. I think he explained a lot of things, explained things, and it's so good. However, I must tell Madam President Adámková that he was not the first to speak of the novice. Unfortunately, this was Miloš Zeman, who provided Rus with false information about how we can make it, and they are still brazenly taking advantage of it. And the second thing is, the matter of sanctions. I have a feeling I've already spoken on this subject. The European Union, including some other Western countries, has imposed sanctions against the Russian Federation, but only on weapons products, simply on means that can be used in war, or on products that have dual uses. They have peace, but they can have war. And this concerns a really small fraction of the products that went to the Russian Federation even from the Czech Republic. Those sanctions were imposed by the Russian Federation on normal consumer goods, food, etc. to EU countries including the Czech Republic. The fact that some Western companies are trying to circumvent sanctions is true, but they do not circumvent the sanctions of their own countries, because they do not absolutely concern the vast majority of exports, they are trying to apply their products precisely by by circumventing those sanctions by the Russian Federation towards us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. My colleague, Janulík, also with a factual remark. Mrs Adámková will wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u12	I won't hold up. I'd just like a colleague of Benešík. Basically, he's right, but not exactly, because maybe Ital are selling guns there. And that's what we heard from our businessmen. It's not exactly true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u13	Thank you. Now, Mrs Věra Adámková with a proper application. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u14	Thank you. I have to have an additional one. They didn't count President Zeman because he was there in a multilateral meeting, and they didn't count that. I know you're right, but not quite. I just wanted to say what things we've really been dealing with so that whoever's here with some knowledge of health problems knows that these are very important things. Maybe someone in your family has someone young, perspective, who works in a high position, like an artificial valve. We've been approached by several employees of multinationals that have an offer to have a contract in the Russian Federation and that they don't really know if they're going there with the valve. And I'll admit, until I was there, I didn't know either, because, of course, fama crescit eundo and we didn't have those connections for a long time, we didn't know about it. Now I know, and I know where to send it, and our embassy already has the information. Other things, please, that have already been said here, are working with the Mayo Clinic. Who you don't know about medicine, please, Mayo Clinic is Mecca medicine for us, whether it's surgical fields, internal fields, gynecology, just Mayo Clinic is really such a top world. So please, not only would they want to work with the Mayo Clinic, but the Mayo Clinic is actively working with them. Which means, of course, the interest is at least repeated. Another thing that came out today, I'll share it with you as hot news. Six years later, and it ended last year, there was a large study of HAPIEE, an international epidemiological study of the College of London, which was conducted with a large epidemiological centre in Novosibirsk, which has been among the best in the world since the 1980s, and the Czech Republic, because the best epidemiologist of cardiovascular diseases in the world is Čech. And since that's the case with us, he lives in London. And London pays him so well, he probably won't come back. That's the way it's usually done. And please, after this study is over, the College of London is very interested in continuing. And they were even in Novosibirsk. And before our visit, the relationships were such that Novosibirsk didn't know how to go with the Czech Republic, whether we'd even come there, or whether we'd communicate or not. The continuation of this large, multi-year international study, I spoke to them today, suddenly has a green light. I was supposed to be in London today, but because you were assigned this point to see how important we are to him, so I canceled the meeting in London, I canceled the opening of the Czech-British cardiology days in London so I could be here because I was there. If you'd like to ask, you'd better ask us, not the press. And I have already sent a message to London that further negotiations will be possible, and, paradoxically, Novosibirsk has already called them, yes, that the Czech Republic is already really proud and probably the other things will be possible, because this has happened. Which is another thing that's such a byproduct. It may seem smiling to you, but it is very important for international research teams. Paradoxically for Novosibirsk was not the problem of London but Prague. And in order to have an idea of the deep, deep holes in things, imagine that an employee of our embassy, a graduate of MGIMO, spoke fluently Russian, living there for ten years, needed medical treatment with his child. He went back to the database they had, and he got to a hospital that never had a children's ward. For example, our visit - in which case he was happy, because it's really a little different. [[19.30 hours]] And I think, and I've said it repeatedly, that politics is about talking, health is apolitical, because we're all sick. There's no one here who's perfectly healthy, I can guarantee that, even if they think so. And so that, for example, because of the problems raised or the unsolved problems, our people may not be able to work in their positions in international companies, I would find it really small, stupid and smiling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u15	I thank Mrs Věra Adámková for her speech and we will continue with the debate by speaking to Mr Jan Lipavský. Mrs Helena Langšádlová will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the President of the House for his opening speech, because it was probably the first comprehensive kind of information we got about the trip to such extent and in such detail. However, I have a few questions, and I have a few points. After all, I'm probably the one who's more or less initiated this meeting today, so I should also comment on that. You spoke of localism, and you more or less convicted yourself of being in that position, because if Russia or Moscow refused to accept our ambassador, they delayed the acceptance of credentials and blocked it until your visit, so a step that I would take for granted in diplomacy was conditional on some further action. Contact with the opposition. You spoke of your journey as part of a foreign policy concept, but at the same time you talked about having no contact with the opposition. I really appreciate the signs, that's a great project. But now that the U.S. representative was there, for example, he went to put a wreath on a bridge where a major opposition politician was shot. There was just no gesture like that. And in a situation where we were occupied by Russia or the Soviet Union, sorry, by the Soviet Union, we were brought here by non-freedom, so we should show that we care that at least some seeds of freedom and opposition should be cultivated in Russia. You were talking about the Russian Federation not being isolated. You're absolutely right. The list of trips proves it. But the Russian Federation is politically trying to isolate us, and they are not accepting any visits at the level of executives in the long term. The only one who goes there is Miloš Zeman. And somehow the President of the Chamber of Deputies is not the executive role. In that context, I wonder and I would like you to answer that, actually, when and from whom came the invitation to your journey. And, of course, I'd appreciate it if you'd put that particular list or any minutes of those meetings at your disposal. But, of course, it is not a matter that must take place at this meeting. As in Czech foreign policy, I find it very problematic that we do not have one vote abroad. De facto, we have four foreign ministers today. So we already have Mr. Petříček at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Černín Palace, we have a president who realizes his very own axis of politics, more or less to the government's fury. We have a policy that you represent as President of the Chamber of Deputies. And I would like to say that I am very positive about, for example, your trip to the US or the initiative with the Austrian Parliament. And I think it's unfair that you were accused of going to Saudi Arabia. You went there in a situation where, of course, it was clear that the regime is problematic in many places, the war in Yemen and so on, but there was some dialogue going on, so these attempts to throw something at you, I admit, I don't see it as fair. But in the highest policy, I simply see that your approach to how you have access to Russia is not entirely equal. He's a footman. When President Zeman, who is very pro-Russian and pro-Chinese, simply sends out inaugural invitations, you came to meet him. When we had an emergency novice meeting, you were part of the obstruction where your ANO colleagues were kind of sitting here, but they weren't logged in, so the meeting stopped. That means the 14th meeting is still hanging there to this day. He'll probably never get to it again. When there was a meeting of the highest constitutional representatives, you could have said: I, as a representative of Parliament, insist that my fellow Member from the Senate be there. You didn't. Or at least you didn't advertise that there must be a Vice-President of the Senate. And now you're on your way, and now I'm gonna get to that, where there's been a few problematic statements. And I'm also very negative about your reaction today to President Zeman's joke about the liquidation of journalists. Ha, ha, ha, a hundred and thirty have been killed in Russia since 2000. One hundred and thirty. And what we read in the media. You've been taking into account the subject of sanctions. Did these sanctions help anything? Within the EU, it is possible to push the debate on this subject. Of course, that's exactly what the Rus want to hear. They want to undermine the European unity, which is based on Russia's annexation of Crimea, launched a war in Ukraine, where there are 10,000 dead, and has continued military exercises, threatening the Pobaltí, our states of the European Union and potentially us. And just as I would like to ask you how the statement was meant more or less, I quote him now: "I also read the newspapers and I want to assure you that the Czech media do not express the opinion of most Czech citizens. It's a new generation that doesn't have detailed information about Russia, didn't learn Russian at school. Believe me, most Čech are not as the media show them in Europe." Really, like, I wonder what and who, then, expresses the will of the citizens. Fortunately, I think we also have free media in the Czech Republic, so why couldn't they express their will? So if there's any way you can respond to this, I'd be very happy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u17	That was Mr Lipavský. He raised two factual points. The first was a member of David Kasal and then President Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr Lipavský, through Mr President, I apologise. I never use such strong words, but what I hear here about footmanship - you weren't there. I don't know what you're getting at. I really don't know what you're getting at. I was there at the meeting. The meeting lasted forty minutes instead of an hour, it was filmed with cameras. Then you can download it from Twitter. And I admired the Prime Minister's choice of every word and how he acted in front of the cameras. And I transferred to 1968 when I wasn't born when our representatives were there - you don't have to laugh at me, you don't have to - when our representatives were there, and I realized what it was like when Kriegel didn't sign anything there. Because when you sit there and you're against the Russian side, it's not that simple. But I didn't see any footage. You should apologize!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u19	I thank my colleague Kasal and now, with a point of fact, the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u20	Thank you. I'll try to calm down and fit in in two minutes. I think it's perfectly okay to use the word assertivity. It's good to just act assertively in these negotiations. So goes the other side. And when they both do it, it doesn't prevent us from having proper relationships. Of course, I can't carry out the program you imagined. And I chose Project Last Address, a powerful human story that humanizes millions, hundreds of thousands executed by a totalitarian Stalinist regime, I did not go to the bridge where Boris Němcov died. It's not even possible, it's just, I'm telling myself again, I can't accommodate everyone. The fact that we can't arrange meetings on an executive level. Yes, but that's exactly it, and that's why we went there to make a difference. And please, that's the way it is. So it's everywhere in the world, everywhere in diplomacy in all the countries of the world. That is why the ideal position of the President of the Chamber of Deputies is, therefore, the ideal position of the President of Parliament, which consists of several parties. Of course, there were opposition representatives in the delegation on the other side of the table. With Mr Volodin, representatives of the opposition parties sat there. It wasn't just Mr. Volodin. [[19.40 hours]] Thank you for your comment on Saudi Arabia. I really went there in a situation where Saudi Arabia granted Israel the right to exist, when an economy is beginning to open up, when we saw Riyadh changing, women can drive cars, they now have cinemas where women and men can walk together. It's an unprecedented thing. Here's the totally morbid, I don't know what to call it, just a medieval matter, and the murder, it's an incident that will, of course, fundamentally disturb it. The international community isn't gonna get away with it. Please, I've been to Russia for the first time ever. I had nothing to do with Russia. And if I'm listening to this, is it about Russia, or is it about Zeman, this debate here? I still accept that we are talking about parliamentary diplomacy and going to Russia. I'd turn against obstruction to a novice meeting. People just didn't come to work. I don't know what else I'd do. And I could have waited an hour. Then there was an 1140 vote, and there were still few of you who wanted the meeting. I was talking about sanctions -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u21	Mr President, you have made a point of fact. [[Yes.]] Now, the factual comment made by Mr Lipavský and Mr Farhan Kamal, then by Mr... [[To someone in the right side of the hall:]] Do you know that, Mr. Club Chairman, that electronic application takes precedence? It's not my fault. I have to put the order in my electronic applications. A colleague of Lipavský - a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u22	I must respond to those words of courage in the negotiations in the Russian Federation. I don't question it at all. But the impression here in the Czech Republic is absolutely tragic. I was just pinching when I saw the news coming in here. [[Laughs in the central and left side of the hall.]] And as opposition, I think we have every right to ask those questions. [[Noisy reaction in many benches.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Farhan, my colleague Janulík, Bartošek and the President will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I had a factual point prepared, partly ahead of me by my colleague David Kasal, so I will only comment on about two or three things. Here it was read to the Prime Minister: you did not make the gesture. The President has, of course, mentioned this. He made a different gesture. He honored the memory actually within the last address of three dead people. Like me, I think everyone makes some kind of gesture that they think is important. You said you perceived foreign policy with four ministers. We have, as far as I know, one foreign minister, one president. That's just how I feel about it. These are your constructs that you have in your head, and you just see the reality of the world differently. And again, I see her differently. You have accused the Prime Minister of not inviting the President of the Senate. Of course, I don't know how many times the President of the Senate invited him on a trip together. We can just blame ourselves for a lot of things here, but they're just constructs in our heads that actually see reality the way they want to see it. It's just that you see her somehow, and we see her differently. And I certainly don't patronize myself here that citizens of the Czech Republic. Like I don't know, like I know a lot of citizens who would support such a journey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u25	Thank you, Mr Farhan, for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Janulík's point of order now. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A colleague of Lipavský, of course, by your means. As for the gesture, I don't know if a colleague of Lipavský has escaped the fact that the House President accepted three of the survivors of eight braves who protested in the Red Square in 1968, first of all. I also listened, I think he said on the radio, almost accused him of rusophilism, so I'd like to remind him that Paul Ryan was here, and our chairman was in the United States in return, or vice versa, it doesn't matter. So I think it was also historic, since President Havel's performance, there hasn't been anyone in America like that. So I'm begging you, too. And I think humanly speaking, the soup is very thin, which you're cooking here, and every guy has to know when to throw a towel in the ring. You almost missed that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u27	Thank you, Mr Janulík. Mr Jan Bartošek's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u28	Thank you. Let me start my speech with such a comparison, now I've heard such a nice remark, I liked it. Do you know why so few members of the Communist Party are here? Because the members of the ANO movement are gonna do it for them. I do not question the foreign trip from the point of view of the expertise of the doctors who went there. But for the record, when I raised this issue on the Organising Committee and asked President Vondráček that, just as we always talk to China, we need to open the issue of human rights, and when we are dealing with Russia, we have to open the issue of national security, and that we are very concerned about the situation surrounding Agent Skripal, Novice, and what is happening, whether he opens this issue in those negotiations, he officially told me on the Organising Committee that there is no such thing in the programme, that he will not open it and that he will talk about the issue of medicine or matters relating to doctors and education. That is why I am surprised that all of a sudden these issues are now coming into the negotiations. And the other thing. If you are dealing with people on the penalty list and I say yes, Russia needs to be dealt with, it is important, and this is about those symbols when dealing with them, so on neutral ground. They are people, and it is a country, and the sanctions followed after Russia stole Crimea. There are doubts about the shooting down of the Malaysian plane, whether the Russian Federation didn't do it, and that Russian agents poisoned Agent Skripal with novičok. We are talking to this country, which is why it is important to open these questions to one another. And I was told, and it was said on the Organizing Committee that this would not be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u29	Thank you for almost keeping time. Now a factual remark from President Vondráček, then a colleague Janulík, and then with priority rights the Foreign Minister. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u30	Thank you. Impressions. You responded to the impressions that created the messages that were coming. And that's the problem. We can't talk about impressions. We need to talk about facts. There's a message that I'm there... Let me give you an example. I spoke to the MGMO students, I said that the Czech Republic is a very open economy, a pro-export, with the largest share of industrial production throughout Europe, that we are against any sanctions, protectionism and trade wars, that it is damaging to us. By the way, I was speaking in the U.S. Congress. That there's Sputnik and he's going to say that Vondráček is against US sanctions, so there's really nothing I can do about it. But that's what we're here to talk about. And yes, you're right to ask. And like I said, all bad things are good for something. At least I have a chance to talk here. We may be dealing with our relationship with Russia after x years. And that's what this parliament is all about. We're different sides and we can have fun. That is why it is good for our committees to meet. And we started there, that maybe the health committee and their health committee would be communicating on a regular basis. And that's where the opposition is. Otherwise, at the table when I was giving, there was a representative of Memorial, that's a representative of civil society, and that's basically the opposition. I just chose one project. Please, I have experience with Paul Ryan when he was here, so the next day we released Nikulin. I came here to celebrate 100 years of Czechoslovakia, and how the Američan helped us. And yet I got hate mail saying that I was an American agent and that Ryan only came here to take Nikulin away. I'm a Russian agent again. I don't know what I'm gonna be next week or after. [[Responses from different sides of the diaper: Chinese agent.]] And I'd like to say yes to Mr. Bartošek. I thought the performance on the Organizing Committee was correct. And you and Mr. Kalousek inspired me, too, and I changed my mind, and I opened the questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u31	Mr. Chairman, time also applies to you. The time for a point of fact is over. Mr Janulík is now also making a point of fact. Mr. Benešík reporting again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u32	Thank you. Through your colleague Bartošek. Seen by your optics, my colleague, it would be so on neutral ground. No one would ever go there. But now everyone's doing push-ups. So if it were you, it probably doesn't work that way. So everyone's doing it wrong? Well, that's just a question. [[19.50 hours]] I'll just go back to the way you quoted that the media in the Czech Republic didn't express that opinion. The President said exactly that when one reads or from newspaper headlines, one cannot know what the true majority view of the citizens of this republic is. So that's how it sounded. Of course, giving it to the media is the second thing that comes in handy. So it's just a margo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Benešík, a colleague, will prepare for a factual remark by Mr Jurečka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to take advantage of the fact that the new Minister of Foreign Affairs will actually speak. This is an age-old problem, namely the number of diplomats and employees of the Russian Embassy in the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic has 10 million inhabitants. I think that within Europe it belongs to medium- important countries, and the Czech Republic is covered by more so-called. diplomats like, for example, the United Kingdom, I mean Russian diplomats. There's about 50 of them here, after the expulsion of the Russian embassy together, there's probably 150 employees with these diplomats. In our country, I believe Russia covers 15 diplomats before expulsion. Russia is the largest country in the world, a 150 million nuclear and regional power. So I'm wondering, even if the problem is very hard to solve, if there's some kind of mutual agreement being considered. Because I guess we're not so naive here that we think the Russian Federation loves the Czech Republic so much that it has such a large cast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now I also have a colleague named Jurečka with a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I might also ask for some rationality of the debate, because some things cannot be described in detail. If President Vondráček could possibly have the Members send the minutes of these negotiations, whoever wants to take a look at it, he knows exactly what you said, what was answered from the other side. To me, it seems correct, fair, as ministers, the minutes were usually taken, they were available when needed. We can speculate here in what tone a novice was mentioned here, as it was submitted etc. There's nothing easier, who cares, to look at the entry and make a picture of it. Thank you if I can be granted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague Hájek. And before he gets to the speaker's desk, I'll read the apologies. My colleague Koten apologizes for health reasons until the end of the day. Mr Marek Výborný since 19.50 for working reasons. Vice-President Fiala apologizes on Wednesdays from 20 o'clock to the end of his business day. My colleague Válková from 19.30 to the end of the working day. My colleague Kaňkovský from 19.40 until the end of the day of the hearing. And since 19.45 Mrs Malá for work reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I've been reprimanded to perform, so I'll be brief as far as possible. I will follow the words of the President of the House, who spoke of the fact that impressions are often judged on the grounds that the man was not there. In this context, I would remind the pelmen at the Russian embassy where I was not, where Mrs. Balcarová was with Mr. Peksa, where they papied, shushed the pelmen, drank the vodka, and the journalists wrote: "The pirates landed in the occupations: They came to feast with those who helped torpedo the location of the radar years ago, when Bartošův's friend Majíček had paid for his billboards from the Russian company, so Russian agents can raid without any Western assistance and pirates shout out how 'guards', etc. [[applause and laughter from YES benches]] So, please, these are impressions. Of course, I don't believe that's true, but this is a media shortcut. This means either we are assessing Mrs Balcarová, my colleague Balcarová, through Mr President, and Mr Peksa through Mr President, that they have betrayed the interests of the Pirát and have actually acted on the basis of and drank the vodka and they have bitten the pelts - just something terrible! So I do not take it that way, and I quote the words of Mrs Balcarová here, no longer through the President, but through me who wrote, I quote: "We do not, of course, agree with the scandalous violations of civil rights in Russia. On the contrary. But the role of politicians is to seek diplomatic solutions. And where there's no communication, there's an escalating conflict. It is communication that can be achieved." That is why I think that the President of the House did the right thing and our committee did the right thing by being there and communicating.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, colleague Jaroslav Holík, a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond by your means to a colleague, Mr Benešík. I worked in the Russian Federation for a few years at our sales council. At the time, there were at least 100, maybe 150 of our employees. I don't know how many diplomats it was because I was a sales rep. At that time our people had their own Czech school there, my children went to school there at the University of Education. And that there is something unbalanced here between the Czech Republic and Russia in the size of the embassy, I find it misguided.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u41	I thank my colleague Holík for keeping time on the point of fact. My colleague Benešík will not leave it unanswered, also a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u42	Thank you for the floor. Yeah, everything was different in the '90s. It doesn't feel right, it doesn't feel right, I'm getting old, and it's been almost 30 years. Today it is different, the numbers are that we actually had there before we were expelled, and the minister will probably supplement me or fix me, about 15 diplomats. The Russian Federation had over 50 diplomats here before the expulsion. We have 10 million inhabitants, they have 150 miles. population. The discrepancy is obvious, and I think calling this inappropriate is what the Russian Federation is doing here. If you read the public parts of our intelligence reports, you'll read it there. So as a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, I trust my own security forces. And the maths are pretty clear. Nobody's talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with priority rights, the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me apologize for not being able to be present at this debate from the outset, but one of the first events for the 100th anniversary of the founding of Czechoslovakia is taking place tonight. It is a festive concert for the 100th anniversary of Czechoslovak diplomacy. And I believe you agree that we cannot ignore our Slovak friends as well. Let me begin by saying that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not responsible for parliamentary diplomacy and respects its independence. In this regard, however, I would like to appreciate the fact that President Vondráček also took part, for example. traveling to the United States, which is an important step towards strengthening relations with our strategic partner. At the same time, I would like to appreciate the fact that Mr President and I were able to talk about his trip to Russia. We agreed that there was a need for better coordination of the foreign trips of the Chamber of Deputies and the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the same time, we would like to better prepare the documentation for your travels. And I also offered that we could conduct negotiations with you before your trip, so that you would have up-to-date information about the situation in the countries. I would also appreciate the fact that the President has assured me that there have been no private meetings that have been reported in the media. At the same time, I would appreciate the President's opening of an exhibition on Czechoslovak legionnaires. It is also a symbolic event, and it is certainly an important point in our relations with Russia. It is also very important that this year the first Czech-Russian discussion forum took place. It is precisely a platform on which some sensitive neuralgic points of our common history and our mutual relations, such as 1968, can be addressed. The President has spoken to his Russian partners about this forum, and I believe that this is where we should raise topics that may not be most pleasant for our counterparties, but which are permanently part of our foreign policy, whether it be the promotion of civil society, independent media, democracy and the protection of human rights. These are the things that we as the government have in the programming statement. It is in our concept of foreign policy from 2015 and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will certainly continue to promote this part of our dialogue with the Russian Party. [[20.00 hours]] Finally, allow me to react briefly to how many foreign ministers we have. We only have one foreign minister. However, our country's foreign policy is being done by several constitutional actors, not by the fact that they are in charge of its formulation, but by the representation of our country towards our partners. And I am glad that the meetings of constitutional officials have begun again. Last meeting of constitutional officials, among others. It has made our positions on sanctions for Russia very clear and has signed up for the EU's single position and has also claimed that this position is now a starting point for continuing our relations with Russia, including selective dialogue in certain areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u45	I, too, thank you and we will continue with the general debate in which Mrs Langšádlová is signed up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u46	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President. Mr President, you said you were traveling abroad, and this is part of your job. And it's okay. However, you have guided this path like any other. Like it's any other way. And I regret to say I don't see it that way. And I don't see it for two reasons. The first reason is historical experience. Perhaps many of us have known our modern history since 1945 through 1948, Russian advisors, the death of Jan Masaryk, the occupation in 1968. Russia's influence, which has simply freed us from the West, has ripped us out of democratic development, and to this day, it has unseen economic consequences. That's the historical connection. [[Noise in the hall.]] And the second reason why, Mr President, this journey, your journey is not the same way as any other path, is that today's Russia is an extremely aggressive imperial power. It is Russia, which, ten years ago, occupied Abkhazia and South Ossetia ten years ago, and many of us and our colleagues are going tomorrow as observers of the elections to Georgia. Yes, it's Abkhazia, South Ossetia, which until today is occupied by the Rusko you visited. We all know that Russia has taken over Crimea. And here it was said that there were some people on some list. Ondra Benešík has already explained about the sanctions. Indeed, the European Union has imposed only sanctions on imports of weapons materials and things that can be used to fight precisely in the context of the war in eastern Ukraine. The Russian party then imposed sanctions on imports of food and other materials. But what about those people on the list, those people I don't think it's quite good to see? Who are these people? Why did they get there? Some may play football with them, but they got on that list because they were involved in the annexation of Crimea. That's why the people are there. They are there because they participated in taking part in part of the neighboring territory of a sovereign country. And that's the thing that's dangerous. Because we will find dozens of places in Europe where historically some territory belonged to one state and today it belongs to another state. And this move by Russia brings Europe into extreme instability. Moreover, it is indeed a fundamental violation of international law. These people are on penalty lists mainly because they are not allowed to enter the territory of a Member State of the European Union. And they're on that list because they were involved in the annexation of the Crimea. And we should be very sensitive about that. We are the country that experienced in 1938 - and now we have remembered the anniversary of Munich and the analogy between Munich and Crimea is really very deep. Because there was a referendum on the Crimea. And someone here also said in Munich: we are entitled to the territory, for there are Němec. So that's why I consider contemporary Russia very dangerous. At the same time, of course, there is still a war going on in the east of Ukraine, and I think very few believe that these soldiers are there during their vacation and are fighting against the Ukrajinec. I know it's not easy out there. Moreover, if you open any documents between the European Union and NATO, or colleagues who go to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and listen to, for example, the North Atlantic Alliance generals or our generals, Russia is waging a hybrid war against us. It's nothing new, it's been going on for a long time. And we should be very careful for our historical experience. And that is why the trip to Russia is not the same as the other roads. We had the opportunity to meet in Parliament, for example. with European Security Commissioner King of Great Britain. Cyber attacks are being conducted daily against the Member States of the European Union. And there are thousands of them. There's a lot of it coming from Russia. Part of it comes from China and other countries, but a large part comes from Russia. Our Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been under such a cyber attack for a long time. Very likely, it leaked very dangerous data. It'll cost us a lot of money. Cyber attacks are being waged not only against the Bundestag, against the Němec, against the Francouz, but also against us. And they're also led from Russia. The other things that we can observe in Europe are dozens of election interventions, referendums. When I learned from our diplomat in Brussels that in the referendum on Catalonia only 10 percent of the information on social networks was from Catalonia and Spain and 90 percent were from the outside, and it was from Russia, Venezuela and other countries, we should be careful there too. We know how brexit went, we know what's going on right now. And I regret to say that political opponents and journalists are being liquidated in Russia. The number was also said here. I had a chance to meet Boris Němcov's attorney a few years ago. Yes, the Boris Němcov who was murdered outside the Kremlin window. He was murdered. He was murdered, and the threads lead to Putin. And there are a number of people who have been murdered in Russia. We're terrified today of what the Saúd are doing, and I'm terrified, too, but, you know, she's not just in Saúd to liquidate journalists and opposition politicians. He's in Russia, too. In the end, the case Skripal just confirms it. Mr President, of course, if you have also mentioned these sensitive issues on your journey, that is a good thing. However, I would like to ask you if you could give us a list of who you met, whether you were involved in negotiations with the Russian Party, specifically with whom, when and with what results, they opposed the Russian interpretation of the occupation of Czechoslovakia in 1968, where the occupation is often interpreted as a necessary aid to Czechoslovakia. Whether you condemned the annexation of Crimea, the fight of Russia in the east of Ukraine, whether you condemned the chemical attack on Skripalův and opposed the accusation against the Czech Republic by Russia that the chemical substance novičok was produced in the Czech Republic. And I wanted to ask if it's true that you questioned sanctions. I really think, and believe me, this is not some political struggle, that you are a government party, we are in opposition - I am convinced that it is the interest of the Czech Republic and should be the interest of all Czech politicians to be very cautious. Be cautious for the experience of history and be very careful about what has been happening in relation to Russia in recent years and how it is putting us at risk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u47	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to the next speaker in the debate, President Vondráček is here with a point of fact, and then Mr Foldyna will be prepared with a point of fact. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u48	Thank you. You have loaded me, my colleague, through the President! I'll try to make it in two minutes. I may have stressed that it was not like any other way and how careful preparation had preceded it. It was the second largest preparation after the American one. Really extremely meticulous. And I repeatedly put my feeling out of the way of one show - always on the alert. You really need to watch every word in there. I fully respect those who have a very reserved historical experience, and I say this diplomatically, a relationship with Russia. They have every right, it's part of our society, it's part of the parliamentary debate here. I'd offer my eyes. Next year, it'll be 30 years since the Velvet Revolution. It is the longest time of democracy we live in. We remember 100 years of the Czech state. I think it's really time to be more confident, proud, sovereign in its foreign policy and active. The whole parliamentary diplomacy is to talk about it, talk about it, talk about it. I believe that the Bundestag, the National Assembly of France, the Senate and the second Chamber of the Netherlands and others who visited the Russian Federation have the same information as we do, and yet they meet. Because, of course, without Russia and without their involvement, I can't imagine any deescalation of tension in eastern Ukraine. We just can't do it without Rusko, and we have to have a dialogue with it. That's why both sides realize it. I'll give you an example of the penalty list. Berlin recently visited the chief of staff Gerasimov, who is on the list against the sanctions. Germany did not ask the other states in advance. Gerasimov is directly associated with military operations in Ukraine, while Mrs Matvijenko is only on the list because they co-opted the Crimean MPs into the body, so she took it like a head. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Time, Mr. Chairman!]] That's her share of Crimea's anexi. That's all I could do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u49	Thank you. I now ask Mr Foldyna, with his point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u50	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I actually said I wasn't gonna perform. Well, I got aired up. But first, I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs, because it was a very balanced and stately position that he told us here. I was wondering what I'd call the masquerade, because it's a masquerade very similar to the černý baron. They could be shooting a sequel here in a minute. Except for Jasánek's name, they'd have to put someone else's name on it, and maybe it would have worked out the same way with the pickaxe. [[Fun and applause in the ranks of ČSSD and YES 2011.]] But, folks, please, when we mention 1938 here and we proceed with this method, who we are, what we are, I would have to ask the Minister if he had requested an apology from Mrs Merkelová. I would ask why we didn't make an extraordinary meeting when Mr Herman went to see the Sudeten Němec at the Landsmanshaft meeting and it was much worse than what the President of the Czech Parliament did! [[very loud:]] That's more insulting! And here you are... quietly. I'm sorry, I almost said yes. [[Fun.]] But I'm emotional. I'm just gonna... If we still have to feel bad for each other, what should we feel bad for each other? So I, when some Rus come here, or Ukrajinec, or those who were in the Soviet Union, will come and say to them, "Hey, comrades, I've had to drag coal into a guard theater since I was ten years old. My dad got kicked out of work and became a housekeeper at a movie theater in the Guard under Ralsk because we didn't agree to the occupation. Should I tell them, then, the Ukrajinec and them, I'll still be looking for it? I am glad that Mr Vondráček went to Russia after ten years and tried to establish some normal relationships and explain our positions and tell them that we do not like certain things, and I agree with that. I don't like it. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] I don't like it either. Thank you. I'm emotional.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u51	Thank you and please Mr Jurečka with a factual point, Mr Lipavskýý will be prepared, then Mrs Langšádlová. Please calm down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u52	I just want to, if I may, turn my back on Mr Foldyn through the President. I'm not trying to make it into a baggirl or a theater here, and the President of this House said he was glad to have this discussion, and I think most of the people who come here to talk are trying to speak rationally. And please, nicely, I think it's really important to get these things straight. So please, let's not make this show bigger than it needs to be, some of us are trying to do it, and let's keep our dignity, because for the time being, both the President of the House and the Foreign Minister have responded in a matter of fact and constructively, and thank you for that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u53	I thank you and please make a point of fact by Mr Lipavský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two factual points. First Foldyna and Minister Petříček are from one political party. And the second point is a novice. We've called an emergency meeting, you've blocked it. Russia has not apologized to us for being accused of producing a novice here, which your government, and we supported this on the foreign committee as an opposition, has clearly been proven a lie. Unfortunately, the President's failure to understand and record Russian propaganda is something that we cannot change from the Chamber of Deputies. However, if Russia has failed to apologize to us, we should ask them to apologize, and it should be one of the main topics. This is about honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u55	Thank you, too, and now, please, Mrs Langšádlová, Mr Feranec will be ready, then Mr Holík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u56	Thank you for the floor. I'm just going to react very briefly. The President spoke of the sensitive historical experience for us. That may simply be the case for many of us, but for me, the present is also very sensitive. Really, look at the documents of the North Atlantic Alliance and the EU that deal with hybrid threats, cyber attacks, misinformation campaigns. Indeed, it is the hybrid war Russia is waging against us, which is why it is very sensitive how one of our top constitutional leaders is performing there. And, Mr President, I would very much like you to answer those specifically proposed questions to me, and I would very much like you to explain to me how it is possible, when it was covered by journalists, our journalists from the public media were there, and they did not even mention the question that you raised the question of Ukraine, as you said, the question of novice, Skripalův etc. I want to believe it happened, but the performances... [[I can't hear you. - The speaker turned towards the President of the Chamber of Deputies.]] I'm sorry. But the shows were just different in the media here. I simply want to know if you can really make it clear when and with whom and with what results you have spoken in these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u57	I also thank you, and Mr Feranec withdrew his factual comment, so now Mr Holík, then Mr Kasal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u58	I'm sorry I'm here again. So, Mr President, let me remind my colleague Lipavský of the speech at this point by the former Minister of Defence, Šlechtová, who made it clear here: in laboratory conditions, we produced a novice, but it was so little that it was not worth talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u59	I thank you and now please Mr Kasal, President Vondráček will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u60	Thank you for the floor. I would respond to Mrs Langšádlová through Mr President. Just one thing, Mrs. Langšádlová. You're telling us to read NATO documents from the EU. Yeah, I'll take it. I'm telling you again, the whole meeting was filmed. There were three cameras. The whole meeting was filmed for an hour and 40 minutes or 47 minutes. It's on Twitter, you can see it. Even Czech TV journalists were there, Karas was there specifically and they were there from Czech Radio. The fact that they didn't mention it, that's just the way it is. Today, colleagues here said that it is already running on the Czech TV, that the budget has already been approved. I read for two days that we already have a coalition in Chrudim, and we don't. So it's a question of what information is on the Czech TV. I'm telling you again, you have a source where it's uncut, you can take a look at it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u61	Thank you, and I would like to make a point of fact, Mr Vondráček. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u62	You asked me specifically if I had defined myself to comment on the occupation of 1968. Prime Minister Zeman apologized for the misinterpretation and misinformation on the air, as far as I know, so I haven't opened the 68th. I think we're clear. And when I perform in the Czech media, I say the words of occupation and invasion. But we just didn't talk about it. I have said several times that I do not fight to abolish sanctions. It was the performance of a meeting of constitutional officials. I don't know how many times I've said it. I'm just a fan of the debate about whether everything's premeditated, unimaginable, if it's effective, ineffective. Everyone in there hears that I want to abolish sanctions. Open a discussion on efficiency, and everyone thinks I'm gonna cancel. What if the result of the discussion was that we should step up? I didn't say to interrupt or raise. I said, let's have some fun, see if they're hurting us. And for me, it was really inspiring meeting with our businessmen, who also tell us that the interpretation of those sanctions is different from the state, that some European Union states interpret them less strictly than we do, and then push us out of the markets that we have had in the long term. And that's what the dialogue is all about. It's really nothing else. And I'm mostly - perhaps I've explained it here - didn't really have the ambition to solve everything there. The debate, if microsynthesis is or isn't production, I hope we're already behind the fact that we've already moved on in some way, because today the press and the president have been talking about it again. That really wasn't part of the discussion. It wasn't. It'll take the next time someone else goes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u63	děkovat you and now Member Rais, then Mr Feranec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u64	Hello, I'll be short, just in the direction of my colleague Langšádlová. I'm surprised he's surprised that something else is real and something else is on TV. As this event ends, we have an election committee where we're going to discuss basically the information we feed little children on children's programs, where basically information about how poor Palestinian children are, because Američan stopped delivering money. So about the objectivity of the TV that feeds the kids that expect Křemílek and Vochomůrka to be there, and instead they get this information there, you can really doubt it. Otherwise, to my colleague Adámková. I fully support what you said here because you need to communicate. If there was a school committee, we acted like perfectly comparable partners, and certainly none of us felt like we were footmen or sneakers or anything like that. The cooperation with them at the level of Russian universities has been going on for a long time. So it's not about what big politics does. It's just that life lives under it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u65	I also thank Mr Feranc, and now I ask you to make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u66	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have only one question, one question for Mr Lipavský through Mr President. Mr. colleague, you thanked Mr. Vondráček for explaining the circumstances, etc. So I ask you - are you able to find the courage to apologize for your words of incompetence, of ridicule? Are you capable, do you have the courage to do that? If you're not capable, I understand, but I can't respect you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u67	I, too, thank you, and now, please, Mrs Procházková, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll be very brief. I hope that entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic are also watching this debate here, and that they are really happy that after ten years, some contacts with Russia have finally started, because we will not fool ourselves, like any other big country, and Russia is very interesting to our business. I'm from Karlovy Vary, and when the Rus stopped coming, the hotels started to collapse. I'm telling you this from experience. Just like when the Rus come to our house and they don't have health insurance, we're in big trouble. I drive an ambulance, and when something happens to them, it's really undignified to demand payment from them directly in cash. This is not appropriate in patients. So I gotta say, I'm really glad those contacts finally moved in some way. And let's face it, a Russian bear is a really big country. She really isn't addicted to a little country like us. Let's not make such a big deal out of this. So let's be proud, let's do as President Vondráček did. I'm sure it was the right thing to do. I want to thank him for that. And let's not just be like dogs tied up in a German shack, because we're addicted and we'll always be dependent on big countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u69	I, too, thank you, and now, with Mr Jurečka's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u70	I'm sorry, but when it was mentioned that the entrepreneurs were looking at us, saying that for ten years there was nothing going on here by supporting the export of Czech companies to Russia, it is very and very unfair. As Minister, I was in the Russian Federation, I was there with businessmen. On the territory of the Czech Republic, I accepted several Russian business delegations from various areas where representatives and senior political representatives were present at the Ministry and at exhibitions such as the Land of the Provider. [[unintelligible]] I say this for the correctness of the fact that it is not so that nothing has been done until now and now America has suddenly appeared in Russia. So please, let's not push the debate. If you need to ask the facts about what was done in the proexport area. I sent our foreign agricultural diplomat there as a minister who works very well there, and I think there are a lot of things that are being done in the pro-export area of the Russian Federation. And one last thing. I really don't think Czech exporters, Czech residents felt like they were tied to a German shack. I think we are very happy that we have excellent export relations in the field of science with our partners in Germany. I think that even your colleagues here from YES, perhaps Pavel Juříček could tell a lot of stories behind Automotiv. Thanks to these relations, the Czech economy has also been thriving. And if you look at the export numbers, that's not a tie to a German hut. This is a mutually beneficial partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u71	I, too, thank you, and with the factual remark of Mrs Procházková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u72	I'd like to put the tie on the German shackle to the right level. You know, I took this as an example because Germany is a big country and we really depend on it. We can see that, and I don't think anyone will deny it. And things can really happen and we should maintain the diversification on all sides, we should communicate with all the big countries on some decent level, of course, as equal partners, but we are still a tiny country in the middle of Europe and we can't play God knows what big masters here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u73	Thank you. At this point in time, factual remarks are exhausted, so I will invite another to the debate, Mr Rakušan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u74	Hello. Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, this is a misfortune duly claimed, which we all know. This means that during those factual comments, we will almost forget what we were going to say. However, I would also like to thank the President for opening the subject here. Perhaps it is also a pity that it is at this hour, when our attention is already falling a little bit and in some cases in the mutual reactions there are nerves on the march. It doesn't deserve the subject. I wanted to say that I do not question the legitimacy of the President's journey to the Russian Federation. koneckonců all, as he himself said, this was voted on by the Organizing Committee, albeit with some additional questions from colleagues, and the trip was certainly approved. But it does, and it is good that we have the opportunity to talk about it, questions about the general bases of our foreign policy not only in relation to the Russian Federation. Because if there are interpretations of the type that the Czech Republic could be a bridge between the West and the East, I, as a graduate historian, must refuse this. Such an interpretation has always been a misfortune, and we should be aware that we are not the bridge. We are part of the European Union, we are part of the North Atlantic Alliance and we are, and I would like to be, simply by the West. If we are conducting a dialogue that is certainly appropriate with the Russian Federation, it would always be appropriate for the dialogue to have some ambition to be ambitious. And if it is to be a dialogue between balanced partners, then we must be the ones who come up with the topics. And we come up with topics that can just be uncomfortable for the party at the moment and at the moment. Many have been mentioned here by Mrs Langšádlová. But I'd mention another one. For example, our Polish neighbors have managed to negotiate that communist archives have been opened, and they are learning from their researchers and historians about the atrocities committed by the Russian secret service. At this point, for example, we could talk about whether it would be appropriate to return to the murder or suicide of Jan Masaryk and whether this should also be the ambition of our diplomacy, whether at the parliamentary level or at the government level. These are simply important topics and we would, of course, imagine, and we would like to hear from the President that we have the ambition to talk about things that are simply unpleasant for our counterparty. That is why we look forward to getting the official record from the meeting and we can see that President Vondráček has actually opened such topics. However, I would like to mention in general how the foreign policy of this government is conducted, but also of the House, in relation to, for example, the Foreign Committee of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. We did not have any information in advance about President Vondráček's journey and we did not even register that he should inform us in detail as a foreign committee with the results and results of the trip. It was the same in the case of Prime Minister Babiš's journey to see Prime Minister Orbán. The same was true of Prime Minister Babiš's journey to Angela Merkelová. And there is a foreign committee here, which, because of this, or because the position of Minister of Foreign Affairs has simply not been occupied, has now had no relevant information on the foreign policy that the Czech Republic is leading, with which topics it comes. And I consider this to be a huge mistake, and I consider it necessary for this - and I hope that with the new minister, this will change - to really change. And I would like President Vondráček to come to the Foreign Committee and inform us with great detail about his journey and convince us that those reports that did not fully satisfy us in the media are simply not based on the truth and that we have actually conducted an ambitious foreign policy with ambition to set topics and not just with ambition to listen to what the counterparty is saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u75	Thank you, too. And now I beg you, Mr Lipavský, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u76	I'll be very brief. I will take the liberty of responding to my colleague Věra Procházková. The Czech Republic is not a small country. We're not a small country. We are a medium-sized country. It's a very fundamental difference. And Russia is not a big bear. Our relationships with them could be completely different if we have a straight spine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u77	Thank you. This has exhausted the general debate. Mrs Němcová is still reporting for the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be as brief as possible and I will no longer comment on what we have heard, nor will I repeat what we have heard. I will just say that I completely agree with what Mrs Helena Langšádlová has said here, and I fully support her concerns and the argument she has made. But I want to ask some questions. The first will be to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the second to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I'll start with the other one for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. From the media, because I have no other source, I learned that after this journey by the President of the Chamber of Deputies something was happening at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Some answer was prepared, or some -- the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and this process of preparing the answer, or its finalization, was to enter another member of the government, the Minister of the Interior, Vice-President of the Government, Mr Hamáček. [[The President asks that the Member speak to the microphone because he cannot be heard.]] I'd like to know what the truth is. That's how the media wrote something. No doubt it would be better if I found out from you exactly what the course was. The second question, which I therefore refer to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and I do not question the fact that the journey was well prepared. You repeated it several times and I think I read in some interview that even part of this preparation took place at Prague Castle. I would therefore like to ask whether during this preparation, both from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and from the guidelines you received at the Castle, the question of the timing of nuclear power plants and the position of ROSATOM, with whom you have dealt on this subject from the Russian side, the scope of these negotiations and the conclusions you made during your business trip, has been raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u79	Thank you, too. The Minister will want to respond, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u80	Have a good evening again. Madame, I believe that this is definitely an interpelation, but I am happy to answer. I myself demanded that they prepare a proposal for a possible statement. However, Mr. President and I have agreed to meet first and talk things out. I made it clear when I came into office that I would first discuss issues of foreign policy with my partners, whether with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, with the President or Prime Minister, before I speak in the media. This was also the reason why I didn't issue the statement afterwards, because after the meeting with the President, I acknowledged that this was no longer necessary, because we settled specific points that we needed to clarify. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u81	I also thank you and now President Vondráček with a point of fact. Then, Mrs Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u82	Thank you. As far as nuclear power is concerned, I have not received any instructions. I do not take any instructions on this matter. And I think it doesn't belong to the President of the Chamber of Deputies to deal with a nuclear power plant somewhere. And I stand by that. I don't understand. My role is completely different. The only person who opened this topic was Mrs Matvijenko, who asked me what the situation was. And I told her that I was a proponent to have, as far as possible, a fair competition without geopolitical influences. That's how I closed it. Mr. Volodin didn't ask me that at all. I didn't have any other meetings during my stay in Russia or here in the Czech Republic, I didn't meet anyone. All the more so, I was surprised by some of the statements made by a senator who said that I was threatening some kind of energy security. That's not my subject, I had nothing to do with it, and it's all just speculation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u83	Thank you. Please, Madame Němcová, with a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u84	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Petříček, Minister of Foreign Affairs, to please leave to my mind what I consider necessary to convey during this discussion and what I will turn to him in the context of the interview. Please leave that to me. And you didn't answer the whole question I asked me. I also asked for the role of Home Secretary Mr Hamáček, because it was written in the media that the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was prepared on the way to Russia by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. This position that the Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček entered the meeting in some way, and then no State Department gave the position. So I asked you how you cooperated with Deputy Prime Minister Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u85	Thank you. Will the Minister want to respond? [[Loud "No!" from the YES benches.]] So no. In that case, we have exhausted the factual points, we have exhausted the electronic applications for the debate. President Kalousek is still reporting for the debate from the point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u86	Minister Petříček, Mrs Němcová asked you a specific question. Of course, it's not possible to force you to answer, but if you don't answer, it's also information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u87	Thank you. If no one else reports, I will end the debate in detail. I will ask Mrs Adámková if she is interested in the final word after the general debate. No. Is the rapporteur interested? He's not interested. In that case, we will proceed to the debate in detail and it is the first time that Mrs Langšádlová applied to me with an electronic application, and then I have the rapporteur, Janulík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u88	Thank you for the floor. I must say that after the debate here, I would appreciate it, Mr President, if you would answer the questions that I have asked here, even after all, but I don't want to - [[- Please use the microphone.]] Given the class, I don't want to hold it up anymore. I want to believe that it was misinformation, that you questioned sanctions. I want to believe it was really some noise. That is why I propose a very general resolution, which merely subscribes to our commitments. And I would like to point out that it is general that it does not concern you only as President of the Chamber of Deputies, but all of our constitutional officials and merely repeats what we have committed ourselves to. So the resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic insists that constitutional officials do not question the commitment of sanctions adopted by EU countries in relation to actions threatening the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine and in response to the annexation of Crimea." It is what European countries have adopted. It is a commitment that we have made, and I want to reiterate that this is a general motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u89	Thank you, too. I ask that you then forward the motion for a resolution to the rapporteur and to me, and I ask Mr Janulík now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u90	I have a motion for a resolution, with your permission, Mr President, colleagues who concern - it is not general, but it really concerns what we have been talking about here, and the resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the information of the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček about his negotiations in the Russian Federation. The Chamber of Deputies notes that the visit of the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Radek Vondráček in the Russian Federation was carried out in accordance with the interests of the Czech Republic and in accordance with the concept of foreign policy of the Government of the Czech Republic." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u91	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. It's not like that. In that case, I am ending the detailed debate. I'll ask again if there's any interest in final words. I see an application for check-out, so I'm gonna check you out. Mrs Adámková is obviously not interested in the final word. The rapporteur may also not be interested in the final word. In that case, we will move on to the vote, which I beg the rapporteur to show us because there were two proposals. About the procedure, etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, we would vote on the proposal by Mrs Langšádlová, who said that "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic insists that constitutional officials do not question the commitment of sanctions adopted by EU countries in relation to actions threatening the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine and in response to the annexation of Crimea." [[Order]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u93	I just want to make sure, for the record, that there is a consensus that both resolutions can be adopted together, that they are not mutually... [[Noise in the hall. Response: No!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u94	No, especially. I suggest we vote separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u95	Copy that. To vote in particular, but that we can accept both that the adoption of the first will not prevent the adoption of the next. [[Noise in the hall. Newsletter: Ready.]] Thank you. Well, in that case, I've already begun, I've checked you all out. I believe everyone has already signed up. In that case, I am opening the vote on the first resolution. I'm asking who's in favour. [[Noise in the hall. It's not lit!]] Sorry, some haven't been logged in yet. [[Noise in the hall.]] I declare the vote 56 misguided. We will vote again. We will vote on the motion for a resolution, as Mrs Langšádlová said. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 57, 127 Members and Members were enrolled, for 39, against 18. The motion was not accepted. Another motion for a resolution, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u96	The next suggestion was mine. It reads: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the information of the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček about his actions in the Russian Federation. The Chamber of Deputies notes that the visit of the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Radek Vondráček in the Russian Federation was carried out in accordance with the interests of the Czech Republic and in accordance with the concept of foreign policy of the Government of the Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u97	Thank you. Initiating vote number 58. I'm asking... [[Messenger. Michálek is reporting a word. Newsletter Janulík off the microphone: I can't! This cannot be entered into the vote opened. - Messenger. Michálek objection from the diaper. - Messenger. Janulik: That is not my problem, that is the problem of the President. - Another objection from the messenger. Michálka. - Janulík: There is no vote. I can't. - More objections from the messenger. Michálka.]] I declare vote 58 misguided. I'm sorry. Prime Minister Michálek, what do you want to say to the House? [[Messenger. Michalek from the hall: Procedure to vote separately on two parts.]] We've already discussed the procedure. [[Newsletter Janulík off the microphone: I'm afraid so. That's what we approved. So you're wrong. You're next door. The procedure has been approved. - Noise and conjecture in the hall.]] There was no vote on the procedure, but it was discussed. At that point, I didn't notice any application for a procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u98	Last vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u99	Thank you. We will vote on the motion for a resolution that the rapporteur, Janulík, has read as a whole. [[Objection in the O.R.]] All in all, we're not going to vote in pieces. Thank you. Initiating vote number 59. I'm asking who's in favour. [[Noise in the hall.]] Who's against it? Thank you. 128 Members and Members were enrolled in the 59 vote. For 88, against 10, the motion was accepted. Chairman Kalousek reporting with priority rights, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u100	Thank you for the floor. I won't keep you long, but I really think it would be necessary to make the record clear what you have rejected here. You refused to insist, you refused to insist that constitutional officials should not question the sanctions that we have applied to within the European Union. [[Angry noise in the Chamber.]] That, of course, is your right. You can vote that the water flows up the hill. But when you voted like that, tell the public for a while that you are not a Communist government!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-008-173.u101	I'm done discussing this point. I think we've also spent enough time reserved for today's negotiations. So I say goodbye to you and I'll see you again tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. when there's a written interview.
