ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u1	76. Multi-annual EU financial framework 2021 - 2027 /German press 227-E/ - first reading The Committee on European Affairs discussed the Commission communication, the proposal for a Council regulation, and initiated its inclusion at a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The resolution, the opinion of the committee and the motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies are part of the 227-E press. I will now ask Mr Adam Kalous to take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of May this year the European Commission presented a package of proposals for the multiannual financial framework of the European Union for the period 2021 to 2027, where this proposal for a multiannual financial framework is closely focused on the political priorities of the European 27 and the draft budget should be adapted to new challenges, such as the effects of brexit, which threaten the internal and external security of the Member States. The new and reformed programmes follow the following principles: it is a greater emphasis on European added value, a simpler and more transparent budget, less bureaucracy for beneficiaries, a more flexible and more actionable budget and an effective budget. The Commission also wants to ensure that the implementation of the programme is effective, effective and strengthens the link between EU funding and respect for the rule of law. For the period 2021 to 2027, the Commission proposes a budget of EUR 1 trillion 279 billion in commitments and EUR 1 trillion 246 billion in payments. The budget seeks to respond to EU priorities structured into seven headings around which individual subsidy programmes are drawn up. The first heading is the single market, innovation and the digital economy, where the new Horizon Europe Research Programme will follow up on the current Horizon 2020. This will focus on global research and innovation, as well as on the current European Fund for Strategic Investment, EFSI, will follow up the EU Invest Programme. For investments in infrastructure in trans-European networks, transport, digital and energy, a shaped Connecting Europe Facility, known as CEF, should be established. A new programme for digital Europe should also be created. The second circuit is the circle of cohesion and value. This heading includes the financing of cohesion policy, one of the key priorities of the Czech Republic, especially from the point of view of ensuring a sufficiently large financial envelope for our regions, where the main criterion for the distribution of funds remains the relative gross domestic product per capita in each region. The third circle is natural resources and the environment. This heading includes a common agricultural policy, which will be divided into two headings, into two pillars, namely direct payments for farmers and rural development. Furthermore, this heading includes the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, as well as the Life Programme for Environmental and Climate Protection. [[11.20 hours]] The fourth is migration and border management, with the aim of a comprehensive approach to migration management and effective external border control. The new integrated border management fund is designed in a volume of 9.3 billion. EUR, which is a triple increase compared to the end of the programming period, and will provide funding in the area of border management, visas and customs controls while ensuring the creation of a common asylum and migration policy and effective return to the place of origin. Furthermore, the European Commission proposes strengthening Frontex's European Border and Coast Guard, which is to be formed by a permanent congregation of approximately 10,000. The fifth heading is security and defence, when the instruments in this chapter respond to challenges threatening the external and internal security of the Member States. This Homeland Security Fund is strengthened to twice the previous period. Furthermore, the Commission proposes strengthening Europol's budget and the area of defence capacity development through the European Defence Fund. In order to respond quickly to unexpected events, the Commission proposes an increase in resources in the civil defence mechanism and an extended emergency reserve. The sixth is the neighbourhood and the world, where within this heading the Commission proposes a major restructuring of instruments in neighbouring and developing countries. The Instrument for Pre-accession and Humanitarian Aid will be stand-alone. Europe's public administration is the last, seventh circle. As I mentioned at the outset, this is only a proposal for a multiannual financial framework, i.e. that negotiations in the EU institutions will continue ideally until the middle of next year. However, if no agreement is found at this date, the European Council will not return to the debate until the end of next year, i.e. only after the elections to the European Parliament and after the provisions of the new Commission. The multiannual financial framework 2021 - 2027 was discussed by the Committee on European Affairs, when the Committee took note of the Government's framework position of 19 June 2018. At the same time, by its resolution, the Committee on European Affairs rejects the proposed introduction of new European Union own resources, where we consider gross national income to be the most appropriate criterion for determining the amount of Member States' contributions to the common Union budget, as we believe that gross national income best describes the economic maturity of each country and thus represents a fair key. At the same time, we believe that the financing of EU projects should remain as far as possible at the decision of the Member States, where any step towards autonomous own resources, some sort of European taxes, in the future for some kind of own funding, we do not consider it appropriate. When we are talking about the new proposed resources proposed by the Commission, this is a share of the revenue from emission allowances transactions, a contribution from the amount of non-recycled plastic packaging, when the European Commission proposes EUR 0,8 per kg, and the latest proposed source is the 3% rate applied to the new joint consolidated corporate tax base. Furthermore, the Committee on European Affairs adopted a resolution to ensure that additional EU funding opportunities are sought within the framework of the current in-use savings setting and the optimisation of EU institutions' budgets. The European Commission is now proposing to allocate 85.3 billion to the EU administration for the new programming period, i.e. the European Commission's operation, the European Parliament's operation and other institutions. EUR 69.6 billion in this end-of-programme period. EUR, i.e. The European Commission thus proposes a nominal increase of 23 percent in administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u3	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate. At the moment, Mr Mikuláš Peksa is the first Member to sign up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u4	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you a certain frustration of the opposition Member who has experienced the European Committee's meeting. I note that the European Commission's proposal is good in many respects and is going in many ways in the right direction. Unfortunately, here I keep seeing government efforts to prevent subsidies from being undermined. I cannot resist the impression that this is a conflict of interest, which has one very important member of this government in relation to agricultural subsidies. And I would like to make it clear that we, as the Czech Republic, do not support the abuse of agricultural subsidies to support the personal business of some members of the government, and we do not want this distortion of the market that is going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u5	Thank you. Next up, Mr Skopeček is a member of the debate. Mr Kobza will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u6	Thank you. Maybe I'll pick up a little bit. At several meetings, I also found it smiling how the ceiling of subsidies is the most important thing that we are talking about within the budget or future EU budgets. But it is a pity to me that the debate on a few future budgets of the EU is shrinking, and not only with us, but also elsewhere, to debate whether there will be more or less money in one or the next subsidy programme, as if the EU were just about redistribution and just about subsidies, which may be for somebody. In my opinion, it is a pity, because what else could there be a debate about the future of the EU, the future of the European integration process, which, in my view, is in a deep crisis? I think that the EU has gone too far in integration and that it is precisely the fiscal framework and future budgets that can open up debate and think about what powers it would be to return from the EU and what public goods it provides in quotes at that national level or at European level. In my opinion, the EU should do less; it should go back a few kilometres on that path within the framework of European integration. And I quite like the Austrian Presidency's motto, which I will not quote precisely now, but I paraphrase - to do less, but better, and more efficiently. However, this does not, in my view, constitute this fiscal framework. It is also no coincidence that it is still being pushed through by the current Commission, the current leadership, which in itself, when yesterday we were able to listen to a speech about the state of the EU from President Juncker, in some of us it deepens skepticism towards the EU and the integration process. There was no self-esteem that European politicians spoke of after brexit. The European Commission, the European elites, have shaken the brexit very quickly and are going the same way in the European Union for the last decade, i.e. ever more centralization, ever more unification, ever more regulation. And the fiscal framework suggests it. I am very pleased that, within the European Committee, we have at least managed to mention and tackle the issue that the European fiscal framework predicts, and this is the emergence of new EU own resources. I'd like you to pay attention to that. That is exactly the way to that European superstate, that is exactly the way to the European Federation. Because what other than taxes is a sign of a sovereign state body? I do not wish the EU as a superstate, I do not wish it as a European Federation. I wish it as a community of at least a little sovereign states that are discussing between themselves what they will do together and what they will not. [[11.30 hours]] I find it almost scandalous that the fiscal framework is counting on its own resources in the form of, for example, a percentage of the common basis of corporate taxes, which has not been agreed on in recent years in the EU. It is nothing more than harmonisation of tax systems, it is nothing more than common taxes. The moment we admit that corporate tax will be the common basis, in a few years, the same European Eurohujers will propose a common tax rate. And I do not really wish for the Czech Republic the same high taxes that they have in Germany or France. We are not so competitive, we are not so interesting to entrepreneurs in terms of business, in terms of law enforcement, in terms of tax systems. Yesterday we talked about our complexity in the tax system. We simply have to compete with those richer countries with lower taxes, which, of course, France, Belgium, is annoying and they want to dictate the same high taxes to us, so that we stop interesting for foreign investors. I am very warning about this, and I find it truly scandalous that the European Union is counting on the resources from common taxes on which there was no consensus. And I am afraid that if we were to remain silent about this, if we were to approve the fiscal framework in this way, we are the last country, which is an argument for a fiscal pact that has not yet harmonised with the European Union tax, and we would be pushed to actually nod to it, which, in my view, would be a mistake both economically, because we would become less competitive, and from the point of view of losing the last remnants of sovereignty that still remain in the Czech Republic. So please, I would like to ask you not to see the European fiscal framework not only in the YES movement through agricultural subsidies, with other political clubs through cohesion policy, but to think about it completely and to think about what danger, if it remained like this, it could mean to the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u7	Thank you. The next is the debate of Mr Jiří Kobza.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u8	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I will be more brief because my previous speaker has summed up enough of what is coming upon us in the form of this proposal. It is a policy of the Freedom of Direct Democracy movement, so that we have fewer European Commissions and more Czech Republics. And if the European Commission does not come up with the money it has and argues with Brexit, we are of the opinion that, first and foremost, the European Commission should start saving itself and not solve its fiscal shortcomings by shifting the burden to the Member States. Because, of course, the smaller European Union should also mean less costs for the administration of the European Union. I understand that. A smaller company simply consumes less. Moreover, it is unacceptable for us that this framework shifts further powers, further checks to the level of Europe and takes them to the national states. And then it becomes so interesting that I say the political parody, because, on the one hand, the European Union wants more money from us, but on the other hand, we know how it threatens disobedient states that allow themselves to defy their directives and threatens them to stop funding, that they will not actually receive funds from different funds. When, on the one hand, he wants money from these states, but on the other hand, he tells them that if they don't listen, he won't give them money, which is unacceptable for us. It is just as when we recall the recent draft amendment to the Dublin agreements, where Commissioner Oettinger on the European Committee, with one breath, probed the possibility of increasing membership fees, and, on the other hand, there was a threat on the table - a penalty of 250 thousand. EUR for every rejected migrant we would not want to accept. So I will join that group of Members who will not support this framework, and I ask colleagues to do the same, because in this form, as proposed, it is very disadvantageous for us, it is unacceptable for us and I think that if we want to do something for this country, we must reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u9	Thank you. I will ask Mr. Jiří Dolejš. I apologise, with the factual remark of Mr Jan Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u10	Thank you. I'll be very short, and I'll just respond to my previous speaker. Now he stressed one important thing that I forgot to say in my opening speech, namely that drawing on European money, European funds, is trying to make the Commission subject to compliance with the rule of law and European values. Now, let's add the european to it. I think that this is also a matter that is worthy of attention in the context of yesterday's events in the European Parliament. I would also like to say that I consider some of the votes of our MEPs that went against our ally within the framework of V4 Hungary to be scandalous and faulty. But that is another thing that the European framework is counting on, namely the conditionality of drawing European money to implement the legal principles of the European State, of European values. And another thing. This budget proposes an increase in the means of migration, on the subject of migration, which may sound very pleasant at first glance for those of us who consider the opening up of mass migration in Europe to be the suicide of Europe. On the other hand, when you go to the European Parliament, you hear from MEPs that they do not consider opening up mass migration as a mistake, they do not want to stop it. All they want to do is turn illegal migration into legal migration in different ways. So the increase in migration money does not have to mean that Europe wants to defend itself more. It could be exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u11	Thank you. Mr. Dolejš has yet to wait. With a factual remark, Mr Mikuláš Peksa is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u12	Thank you. I would like to respond to my previous speaker through Mr President. I would like to point out that it is important for the Member States of the European Union to respect the rule of law and respect the rule of law, because if this is not the case, we can hardly be calm about how European subsidies are distributed. If there is simply abuse of justice in a Member State, then we certainly cannot have confidence that those subsidies that are distributed there are distributed fairly. It is therefore important that the rule of law should apply in all the countries of the European Union. I would also like to ask my colleague Skopeček through Mr President. Viktor Orbán may be your ally, but not all of us sitting here. Many of us don't identify with him. And so I personally find it to be a big hobby that European folklore, namely members of KDU-ČSL Svoboda, Šojdrová and Zdechovský, although verbally declaring support for some common European values, voted in defense of Viktor Orbán. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u13	Thank you. We have added the factual remarks here, so first Mr Skopeček, then Mr Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u14	I, of course, sign that the principles of the rule of law are to be respected, but the European Union already has sufficient tools to counter the countries that violate them. So I think it's wrong if another tool were to be conditional on drawing money, which was never so set up, it would be new, I would consider it a mistake. Today, the European Union has other instruments. And the second thing is a debate, and we can probably debate that here for hours, whether this violation of the rule of law is a real violation of the principles of the rule of law, whether it is really about effectively drawing subsidies, or punishing states on issues where they disagree with the mainstream of the European Union. I think lately, the latter is more true than the first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u15	Thank you. Now, Mr Klaus, President Stanjura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u16	Hello. The point is that Hungary is a sovereign country whose citizens vote in their parliament and take care of their affairs as they want, so it is completely rude to evaluate them here, etc., as you do, Mr Peks through the President. [[- Yes, thank you.]] Because just as Mr Juncker needs your representative, but maybe not mine, so we are different in this, but the difference is that they are saying how to manage their own country, so that we are interfering here in Hungary's affairs, and when they do it to us in a few years, you will vote with them against the citizens of the Czech Republic. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u17	Thank you. Another factual point, President Stanjura, will be prepared by Vice-President Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u18	I would like to respond to Mr Peksa's speech. This is no trial with Prime Minister Orbán, but with the sovereign and democratic state of Hungary. Remember, similar relationships are with another neighbor of ours - Poland. And we shouldn't jump on it. If you have studied in detail e.g. The issue of Polish justice, so the situation is not black and white at all, as some describe to us how wrong it is. And I'm warning you, 'cause next time, it's gonna be us. And if anyone here is saying that some MEPs voted in favour of this with Hungary, I think it is necessary to specifically say which ones should not be called ours or Czech MEPs. [[unintelligible]] We're supposed to say who. And what is most comical is when I compare the statement made by Andrej Babiš, who was with Viktor Orbán a few days ago, as is his role model and how he supports him, how he is a great ally for his MEPs to vote in Mr Peksa's dictum against Viktor Orbán. Well, that's the classic thing about me saying something in one place, and I'm doing something else in the other place. And now I wouldn't talk about it if only MEPs who broke up with the YES movement voted this way. I wouldn't judge that. But you have your MEPs there, you always say how great they are, how we defend our interests in this European Parliament, but the vote to launch this procedure with Hungary is not in the Czech national interest, I am convinced. And I am personally upset over the long term by making the use of European funds subject to political and legislative requirements. There won't be an EIA, there won't be money. It's not gonna be this, it's not gonna be money. It's not gonna be what we want, it's not gonna be money. We also do not evaluate the results of the elections and the actions of individual political parties.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u19	Thank you. Vice-President Petr Fiala, Mr. Jiří Kobza will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u20	My factual point will also be a response to Mr Peksa's speech. Mr President, no doubt when we examine whether there is a country and a representative of it, whether it is acting in the interests of the Czech Republic or whether it is in our interests, we must look away from whether we, as a political party and a particular political force, like who is in control, what internal political positions are. It is clear here that Hungary is our ally and that Prime Minister Orbán's policy is such that it corresponds to the long-term foreign policy interests of the Czech Republic, and we could all agree on that here. If you are surprised at the fact that some Members, such as the People's Party, stood up for Prime Minister Orbán in the European Parliament, I merely remind you that his party, the political party Fidesz, is not on any edge of the European political spectrum, it is part of the European People's Party, so the position in this regard seems logical to me. And what I consider to be the most important thing: all these attempts to intervene in various ways in the actions of individual democratic states within the European Union only deepen the crisis of the European Union, deepen the distrust between European countries and threaten even future cooperation between those countries. And if you don't think that this will lead to those actions against Poland and Hungary, then I call on all of you to look at history. Look how the sanctions against Austria ended less than two decades ago when it entered the FPE of Jörg Haider. Those sanctions did not end in success, ended in disillusionment in Austrian society and brought more problems than benefits. And so will the proceedings against Poland and Hungary, which are not in the interest of the Czech Republic. [[Time warning]] They're not!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u21	Thank you. There's been an increase in real notes. Mr Kobza, Mr Foldyna will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, what we are hearing here about Hungary, not only from the Pirate Party Member's mouth, but also from some media, is quite clear that there is an attempt to make Hungary a deterrent. What's the Maďar crime? The Maďar have taken the liberty of democratically choosing the Fidesz Party, which has chosen its government, stood up fully for its agenda, and they have a government that defends Hungary's interests. And if some leaders try to deny this in some way, we can quite openly call it denying basic democratic principles, and that is unacceptable for us. What should also be said here is that Hungary is likely to serve as a deterrent because, as President Stanjura has already mentioned here, the question is that this pressure on Hungary will work, who will be next. Because we all know what we are dealing with at least marginally European and foreign policy, that the V4 is the basis of a certain effort to democratize the European Union, the efforts to restore independence and self-righteousness to European states, and this, of course, must be properly ostracized and punished. The question is, who's next? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u23	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Foldyna, will be prepared by Mr Koten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u24	Thank you, Mr President, thank you for the floor. I don't want to talk about Mr. Peks or the pirátský Party. I would like to speak for myself and for us in general. Did the citizens of the Czech Republic vote for us, or did the Afričan vote for us? Do we defend the interests of the citizens who voted for us or defend the interests of those who are going to come to Europe? I'm excited about how the debate is going here. And I see that if you want to defend the interests of Afričan, you can do the migration the other way around, come to Africa, run for Afričan and defend their interests. I defend the citizens of the Czech Republic, and that is my duty, and I swore that when I confirmed the oath of a Member of the Czech Republic. I am surprised that Members who have been elected citizens of the Czech Republic to the European Parliament do not defend their interests! I want to distance myself from them, publicly distance myself from these positions and call on us to defend the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. And look at the surveys that citizens of the Czech Republic want: 94 percent of people are opposed to opening up some migration. We deny the functioning of the rule of law! If anyone who wants to, gets up and runs somewhere else and takes advantage of the system, then we cancel the states, there will be anarchy. Yes, I understand that. You like anarchy. Not me! I like the system and the order. Again, I have run for citizens of the Czech Republic and will defend their interests! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u25	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Koten, is prepared by Mr Peksa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that what Mr Foldyna said here is an absolutely precise definition of how a Member who is elected by the citizens of this Republic should behave. Defend their interests! Because what various MEPs or MEPs are doing here is truly a disgrace! It's a disgrace! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u27	Thank you. Another with a factual remark from Mr Peksa, then I took the liberty of signing up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u28	Thank you. I am fascinated by the emotional belonging that goes on between the SPD, some colleagues from the ODS and some colleagues from the ČSSD. Bravo, gentlemen, congratulations. Anyway, let's take this into consideration. Mr Klaus, through Mr President, Mr Juncker really is, but he really is not my representative. Yesterday, the European Parliament passed the copyright directive on the common digital market and went through it in such a way that everything that could have gone wrong and something else went wrong. European people are responsible for this directive, and Mr Juncker is their representative. So don't put me in the same bag with them, because if someone's in my stomach right now, it's Mr. Juncker. And another thing, about the issue of the rule of law. You may have noticed that police and judicial cooperation is taking place between the Czech Republic, Hungary and all the countries of the European Union. That means if he's a policeman, he's a policeman. Justice abused in a state, so it is also a potential threat to citizens of the Czech Republic. And I think the thing about some particular member country taking over an oligarch can happen. It's not unimaginable, it can happen. And it's pretty well thought out that he's gonna be cleaning up inside the police and the justice system. So please don't downplay it because it's really a problem! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u29	Thank you. The President of Vondráček will make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u30	Thank you. I'll be brief. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that I do not usually perform, it is not the role of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. But as President of the Chamber of Deputies, as a member of the ANO movement, as a member of the Bureau of the ANO movement, I would also like to publicly distance myself from the vote of our MEPs. [[A strong round of applause, especially from YES.]] I have no information that this opinion is in any way consulted both at the level of the President or the Bureau or the Committee. At times of various crises, not just those of migration, Europe needs more respect and trust between states and dialogue. And this is nothing but the deepening of ditches that already exist and will only be deeper. Perhaps MEPs felt good about this when they voted for the resolution, I do not feel good about it at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u31	Thank you. The following is Mrs Langšádlová's factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. It has been said here several times that we are to defend the interests of the Czech Republic, that we are to defend the interests of our citizens. Well, of course we're supposed to defend them! Of course we're supposed to defend the interests of our citizens! But what is the interest of our citizens? I firmly believe that the concern of our citizens is that we are an active and strong part of the European Union. Do you really think that it is our citizens' interest to step out of the European Union to isolate ourselves, to make economic and security payments? Do you really think this is the interest of the Czech Republic? Where would that lead us? Our concern, the life interests of the Czech Republic, is really to be a solid part of the European Union! Don't offer another way. She's not the only one. The European Union is not an ideal project. Let us share in making it a better project. But it's up to us. We're Brussels, too!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u33	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Skopeček, will be prepared by Mr Ondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u34	Thank you for the floor. I would first like to thank you, Mr President. I really appreciate your words, and I really do. Sometimes it happens in a political party. I know how uncomfortable this is, and I really appreciate the words that have been said here. I would further like to ask Vice-President Foldyna, who I also agreed to in his speech, but I would like to ask him if he, as Vice-President of Social Democracy, is thus disavowing himself from the nominee of social democracy to the Foreign Minister, because MEP Poche also voted against Hungary. So that's my question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u35	I'll ask for peace in the hall! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u36	Madame Langšádlová. I don't think any of us mentioned the word coming out of the European Union. But that's what illustrates the debate. If we disagree with everything that comes from the old Member States of the European Union and allow ourselves to have reservations, we are automatically accused of wanting to leave the European Union. But it does not agree to 100 per cent or to withdraw from the European Union. It's about finding your position, defending national interests and proving it when we think we're right, having the courage to say it to the old Member States. It's not either or. It's about active politics and having the ability and courage to disagree sometimes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u37	Thank you for keeping time. Another factual point, Mr Ondráček, will be prepared by Mr Peksa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say that I have listened with interest to your two minutes here at the speaker's desk, when you, too, as the head of the ANO movement, have distanced yourself from your fellow MEPs who voted yesterday as they voted. In fact, your Prime Minister, who also said that he was distancing himself from your elected Members who voted in favour of initiating proceedings against Hungary, etc. etcetera, and he said you were betrayed. Of course, it's a lovely performance. Maybe that's why I wanted to include the government's point of information on the position of the Czech Republic, because now we're essentially talking about what I wanted to talk about next week on Wednesday afternoon. You didn't allow it by your vote, of course it's your right. So I assume that when the piárists advise your Prime Minister, he will distance himself from the members of the ANO movement who have blocked this point. It's your choice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u39	Thank you. Mr Peksa, Mr Klaus, will be prepared. No? Mr Peksa canceled, so I will ask Mr Klaus, then Mr Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u40	Let's do it again. I feel that we, I, colleague Skopeček and Co., have defended democracy here, the right of Maďar to make decisions about their country, to choose their representatives and to behave in the way they want to behave. And in contrast, I'm sorry, Mr Peksa will step forward and make a personal attack. He says, "Ha, ha, you are voting here as much as Mr. Foldyna." So what? In many ways, I have the same opinion as Mr Foldyna, it is my opinion and it is very rude to throw people together in one way or another just because they belong to someone else so that they don't share their views. It's highly undemocratic. It's almost as undemocratic as it is to bully a sovereign country. And to Mrs Langšádlová. I'm almost 50 years old, so thank you for returning me 30 years to the moon of Czechoslovak-Soviet friendship, so I got a little younger with your speech. [[The President points out that it should have been through him]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u41	Thank you. Mr Plzák, with a factual remark, will be prepared by Mr Ondřej Veselý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I don't know if my performance will fall directly into the category of factual remarks because it doesn't respond immediately to the performance of the previous speakers. But I'd like to ask the secretary when she's performing, if she can answer one question. And that is because we know that the European Union's budget will have to be approved by all the countries of the European Union, what will happen if it doesn't approve how it goes next, what is the next solution, if you can say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u43	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Veselý, Vice-President Okamura, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna try, in vain, to get that discussion back on the original subject, and that's a multi-annual financial framework. And I will try to bring it back to you, and by not having the chair of the European Committee here, I am the Vice-President, so I will try to outline what will happen next on Hungary, and hopefully it will calm you down. This position will come to us, Parliament, and we have a European committee set up, a shortcut from VEZ, representing all parties there, and there we will discuss our position for Parliament. We have already discussed Poland's position in this way, and the conclusion was that as one man, we were all there across the spectrum, recommended not to go into sanctions, not to repress the moods between states, to attempt dialogue. And I assume the same position will come from Hungary. If this is enough for you as a promise, I will take charge of the material, just as I had the material for Poland, and I will be its rapporteur, and I will propose a similar resolution to that of Poland. Please let us go back to the multiannual financial framework and stop dealing with something that we will really deal with in a few weeks, maybe months on the European Committee. And it is certainly not a problem for us to let you all know the position of the European Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u45	I thank you and please make a point of fact - Vice-President Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, it is nice that the President of the House of Vondráček for the ANO movement apologized for the vote of the MEPs, all the MEPs of the ANO movement who voted against the interests of the Czech Republic, against our national interests and betrayed the V4 partners, and we learned that they did not consult their positions. I think that this is indeed a complete fatal failure, because if the strongest government party leading the Czech government does not consult its MEPs and do what they want in foreign policy, this really shows considerable incompetence. But I suspect it's a little different. Unfortunately, I suspect that Andrej Babiš here for Czech citizens is telling us something completely different for Czech voters than he has in Brussels in the long term. It's not the first vote. Indeed, the members of the ANO movement are part of the European ALDE faction, which is basically an openly pro-migration globalist faction led by one of the largest neo-Marxist activists, the former Belgian Prime Minister Verhofstadt, and of course they do not vote badly or otherwise. They vote exactly in line with the idea of the faction that voluntarily became a member. They know exactly how they vote! They vote the way they do from the point of view of the YES movement. So let's not say it's different here. And it's really scandalous, I'm just saying, until the Prime Minister fools citizens in the Czech Republic, because it is not possible to be anti-immigration and pro-brussels, because EU policy is based on globalism, multiculturalism and migration. This means, I hope, that the citizens of the Czech Republic have now seen clearly before the municipal and senate elections that the Prime Minister here says something completely different, the YES movement says in the Czech Republic than they actually promote in Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u47	Your time! Thank you. Another factual point - Mr Bartošek, Mr Foldyna will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u48	Thank you for the floor. There are certainly many things we can comment on and be in conflict with the EU. There are certainly many things that we can contradict and have comments on what is happening to Hungary. But I consider Hungary to be extremely unhappy to punish yesterday's move. We can have a lot of comments, but we still need to realize that there is no better project in the present world than being part of the EU, where we will act as a proud and sovereign state and defend the interests of the Czech Republic. Even if the YES movement is really part of this immigration group, I want to say one thing. The EU is not built on punishment and immigration and on these values. The EU was founded on the values of Christians. That's what you need to go back to. Christianity, which respects man as an individual, defends family, Christianity, which says that it is necessary to help people in need, but on the other hand, it also says that being a Evropan and being a Christian is also a question of their own pride. Europe is not insensitive. On the contrary, Europe is helpful. These are the values on which Europe came into being. And I fear that the more Europe leaves these Christian values, the more it will lose itself. I agree that, in many ways, the Prime Minister is in conflict with what he says in the world and what is at home. And for that reason, I am making a procedural proposal, and I want him to be present and explain to us and tell us what the truth is. Whether what he says outside or what he says in the Czech Republic. And I'm making a procedural motion to interrupt this point until the Prime Minister is present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u49	We have a procedural proposal here, so I think we'd like to vote on it immediately. I shall call the Members to the Chamber and have a motion to adjourn the negotiations to the presence of the Prime Minister. So I'll wait for the MPs to arrive. We have an application for check-out, so I'm gonna report you one day. Please sign up with your voting cards. Otherwise, have a nice noon. In the meantime, I will read one apology to give Members time to come. He apologizes for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 14:00 to 19:00 due to the meeting of Mr Martin Jiránek. And one more check-out request. Please turn yourself in one more time. Please log in again with your voting cards. I'll repeat the motion. We will vote on whether you agree to interrupt negotiations in the presence of the Prime Minister so that he can comment on this matter. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of interrupting, press the button and raise your hand. If you are against interruption, press the button and raise your hand. In voting number 67, 121 Members signed up, for 54, against 20. The motion was denied. And now we're going to go in the order of the actual notes. Mr Foldyna, Mrs Langšádlová, Mr Stanjura, Mr Ondráček, Mr Peksa, and now Mr Bartošek jumped in. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u50	Thank you for the floor. All I'm saying is that my colleagues here from the right, from the right, from the ODS, Mr. Klaus and the others, they agree with me, or I agree with them. Please, we're not discussing any ideology here. We are discussing the fundamental principles of the existence of European countries. We live in the Czech Republic, which is the legacy of our ancestors, and that heritage is not only a hundred years old, but hundreds of years old, and they fought it with blood in battles, when they had to defeat those who live on other principles and on other ideologies. And if it's weird for anyone to discuss and agree with a left-winger on principles, it shows that he doesn't care about any principles. It's an antisystem view of the whole thing. I think it is quite logical that we are here defending the interests of Czech citizens, Evropan, who are based on Christian-Jewish culture, and this is what we are dealing with at the moment. There's nothing left-wing or right-wing about it. The truth is that neomarxism and the liberal left are trying to stamp out, marginalize and set new principles and other principles. And that's what the debate is about! And if anyone applies to those fundamental principles, it's his business, and you're applying to the other principles that they want to make a nonsystemic state here, a state full of people who come here from abroad on the basis of other Christian values, based on other cultural values, well that's your problem! I hope the citizens realize that for the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u51	Thank you and I therefore now call on Mrs Helena Langšádlová to speak and to prepare Mr Stanjura. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u52	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I think it's a reaction to Mr. Foldyna. As a Christian, I am applying to the European Union project and I believe that it is a project, as has been said here, based on the Jewish-Christian foundations. But what I wanted to say. On the right side sits the Minister of Finance and the rapporteur. We are discussing the point of the European Union's multiannual financial framework. Many would like to comment on this multiannual framework. I'd like very much to ask if we could get back to the subject. And although I know that this is all sensitive, there was some vote yesterday in the European Parliament, it is not the subject of this point. Let us try to get back to the point of the European Union's multiannual financial framework. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u53	Thank you. I therefore now call for the speech of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS. Mr. Ondráček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u54	If you recall the opening speech of the rapporteur and then the speech of my colleague Mr Skopeček, you will clearly see that the debate on Hungary is meaningful and clearly linked to the multiannual financial framework, because it is proposed that the drawing of European money be conditional, inter alia, on compliance, which will be evaluated by someone, such as the European Parliament. So there's a connection here, first of all. Secondly, I am glad that we are finally discussing the faction of ALDE. If the folks have, I mean, European folklore and the Czech political parties that are in that faction, they have full responsibility for the head of the European Commission, Juncker, and they do, so sometimes get to know the views of the head of this faction, get to know it. Look who's all part of the faction. From the Czech Republic it is a movement YES. They're doing the exact opposite of what the Prime Minister and the head of the YES movement say. They do and say, it is indeed a pro-migration European faction. [[unintelligible]] And I didn't notice that the YES movement wanted to leave the faction or protest in any way. I would like the President of the House to distance themselves from the process of this faction. Not just the four MEPs. Because 100% this faction voted as one man and one woman against Hungary and against the interests of the Czech Republic. And now for the money. I heard it yesterday in a debate or two nights ago, I'm sorry. Compare money to defend the European Union's external borders and the common agricultural policy. Now it has nothing to do with the Prime Minister's engagement to... The incredible money the European Union is putting on the common agricultural policy. And there's almost nothing to change. And when the rapporteur talked about the seven priorities, the seven areas, perhaps it would be nice if he told us the percentage distribution of expenditure into the seven areas, because that is crucial, and that is part of the debate on the multiannual financial framework, which is actually priorities, and which of these priorities we will give how much money out of these expenditures of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u55	Thank you. I will now ask for Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's speech. Mr. Mikuláš Peksa will be ready. I also have Mr Bartošek, Mr Skopeček, Mr Benešík. So far, they're logged in on a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened with interest to Mr Bartošek's comments. He was talking about the values of the European Union and he is saying what the European Union is based on, how it works. Mr President, these are the basics of the 1950s when the European Union was being created, and that was probably what it meant, and that was probably how it was supposed to work. Today, the European Union is just orders, bans and everything else associated with it. That is why there are a number of Members across the political spectrum who simply do not want to accept it - the way that Europe works today, and the fact that we have given up on the possibility of deciding on our national interests. And we perceive it if we step up, and it doesn't matter if it's Orbán, or if it's Polák who are determined to defend their interests, that we can support them across the political spectrum from the left to the right. And that's probably the right thing to do, and that's the way it should be. And colleagues from the ANO movement. We could have forgiven each other for all this if you couldn't change your mind or your attitude within a minute, an hour, an hour, an hour, an hour. All we had to do was vote one vote and we could talk about all this on Wednesday afternoon. Now we'll be happy to settle this point. Be proud of yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u57	Thank you for the show. Next, I call on Mr Mikuláš Peksa and Mr Jan Bartošek will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u58	Thank you. I wanted to respond quickly to you, Mr President. The situation is that whenever bůh is high and Andrej Babiš is far away, the ANO movement does not know what to do. There are very common situations where some people vote together with the SPD and some people vote completely counter-districtly against the SPD. That's what's happening on the committees, because it's just not possible to control it there. It's very comical, I'd say. So it's not just the ALDE problem, it just goes into this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u59	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Jan Bartošek to speak and Mr Jan Skopeček will prepare himself. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u60	Thank you for the floor. Your way to Mr Ondráček. I also said in my speech that the more Europe leaves these Christian values on which it was founded, the more Europe loses itself. And I am sorry, because I believe that the values are right, they are good, and Europe can exist on them for centuries. Otherwise, I fully respect the vote in the Chamber of Deputies, where, above all, the YES movement has not interrupted the item to be attended by the Prime Minister. And I wanted to tell you, dear Members, one of the values on which Europe was built is an eternal struggle for the truth. And it's a struggle for what is real and what are lies, what is manipulating people and what are fake news. It is about Europe being built on academic freedoms and verifiable truths. And if you are defending the Prime Minister from coming and saying what is true, what he is saying outside and what he is saying at home to explain the contradictions about what is real, then you are deliberately defending yourself from defending your positions in the Chamber of Deputies, he can clearly say what is true, what he says to journalists, what he says to people and what he really believes internally. By making it impossible for the Chamber of Deputies to discuss what is really the essence, what are the true views of the YES movement, you are making it impossible for us to discuss the truth. If you accept this strategy as part of the game you play with voters and with this republic, believe that a building built on lies, manipulation, inability to discuss is a building built on sand that will collapse sooner or later. Andrej Babiš was to speak out and make it clear what the position of the YES movement was, and he had the opportunity to defend himself. You said you didn't want it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u61	That was Mr Bartošek. I therefore now call for the speech of Mr Skopeček. I will just recapitulate with permission, followed by Mr Benešík, Vice-President of the House Petr Fiala, and the chairman of the KSČM Club, Mr Kováčik, then Mr Farský and then Mr Bžoch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u62	We have been criticized here that we are not talking about the financial framework, but I started with the opening speech, and it has developed into a debate about Hungary. Perhaps if colleagues did not look at who is proposing the item and automatically voted against the SPD President, we could talk about Hungary on a separate point. Now, unfortunately, it fell into that thing. Although I have a factual, I will repeat this in a proper discussion, but I, as the civil democrats, propose for our club a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies considers the European Parliament's vote against the sovereign state of Hungary to be incorrect and unfortunate in terms of the activation of Art. 7 The Treaty of Lisbon. This procedure will only further deepen the ditches and distrust between the old and new Member States of the European Union. If you can formally load it like that. I'm doing it now, or I'm going to have a standard discussion with him. Thank you and I beg all of you to support this resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u63	Thank you. I would like to call on all of you, honourable Members, to return, as far as possible, to the subject in your factual remarks. The point we are discussing is the multiannual financial framework of the European Union for the period 2021-2027. We are in factual remarks, so I would like to ask you to stick as far as possible to the broadest limits of this subject as possible. So now, Mr. Ondřej Benešík, and then Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u64	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize that I was not at the beginning of this debate. I attended a conference at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on transatlantic ties to the 100th anniversary of the founding of Czechoslovakia. And there I said one thing, and that partner is who we share common interests with. The ally is who we share common values with. And I think that Europe is built on those common values. And those common values were defined by my honored colleague, Mr. Foldyna. And I'm glad he's applying. [[12.20 hours]] Among other things, it is also a Jewish and Christian tradition, Roman law, Greek philosophy. I believe that in this House we will negotiate within these civilizational values, for example, when it comes to taxation of church restitutions. And this mess is good for one thing that we're all aware today that it's not some Brusel out there. These are specific people, specific politicians from specific Member States who make decisions and whom we mistakenly call Brusel. They are specific MEPs, specific Euro Commissioner, specific ministers meeting at the Councils of the European Union and specific premieres meeting at the European Council. That, ladies and gentlemen, is Brussels! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u65	Thank you. I therefore now call on the Vice-President of the House of Petr Fiala, and then Mr Farský will speak. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we can wedge in national interests here, argue, discuss for two more hours, but we will not be able to enforce our national interests unless we have a clear and coordinated foreign policy. And we don't have such foreign policy. Look what this debate has shown. This debate has shown that although the Prime Minister has some foreign policy position, his own MEPs have the opposite position. This debate has also made it clear that even though the Vice-President of the Czech Party is hobbling here for the national interests and against the launch of the process against Hungary, the one who actually runs the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Poche, has the opposite position. If we continue to pursue our interests in this way, in sending a signal to Europe and abroad, I can assure you of one thing: no interests of our own, no interests of the Czech Republic, no interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic we will be able to defend effectively. Such confusion, such uncoordinated foreign policy cannot lead to anything good. So I also take this opportunity to call again on governments and government parties to take a more responsible stance on foreign policy, to make order in their own ranks, and to appoint a full-fledged foreign minister as quickly as possible to answer for foreign policy as is common in any democratic civilised country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u67	Thank you. I would now read three apologies. He apologizes between 15 and 20 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Robert králíček. Furthermore, from 12.30 to the end of the day, Mr Aleš Juchelka apologizes for reasons of work. Mr Martin Stropnický also apologizes, from 12 o'clock to the rest of today's meeting he cannot attend for family reasons. Now the President of the STAN, Mr Farský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u68	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the European Union is not only an area where subsidies are redistributed, where budgets are set and individual regions are fed, but it is, first and foremost, quite fundamentally, a territory where shared values are respected. And I will not be here to distance myself from the vote of our MEP Standa Polčák. I think he voted with discretion and voted correctly. [[Let's hear it for Mr Hyth.]] Because these values, which have more strength and longer term validity than any transfers of subsidies between regions, need to be protected. And I would expect that at these moments, those who speak so often about the national values, the values of Europe and their Christian foundations, and put it into their programs, build walls and fences at the borders, and prevent anyone who has another religion from coming to Europe at all. And they're criticizing today? It doesn't make any sense. 448 Members voted in favour, 197 against and 48 abstained. And why did they vote for Article 7 to be activated? Of course, it depends on the European Commission's decision on how it stands. Because, from their point of view and according to the report prepared for the European Parliament, the independence of the courts is threatened in Hungary, the freedom of the media is threatened, civil society is threatened and subsidies are abused. Who listened badly - I was talking about Hungary, not the Czech Republic. [[Let's hear it from the right side of the hall. The President shall draw attention to the time.]] It's in the real interest of--
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u69	If it's a matter of priority to general law, you're not, of course, now, but before you is Minister Schillerová, so that's impossible. And now there are two Members behind you with factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u70	I'm sorry, but I applied with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u71	Yes, but factual remarks take precedence over applications for a general debate with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u72	I think we'll figure it out by not being more than a minute long.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u73	I can't do that. I really can't do that. That would be a precedent. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u74	All right, I'll come back with a taste and let you know that the vote of the European Parliament was in the interests of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u75	Mr. Ambassador, please, let us respect the Rules of Procedure. I'm so sorry. [[The Member refers to his application.]] Great, I have your application for a general debate with priority rights. So let me recap, make sure there's no nervousness. I have here two applications for factual comments - Mr Bžoch will now and subsequently Mr Jiří Kobza. Then we immediately go to the general debate, where I have priority rights as the first Minister Schillerová and consequently the President of the STAN Farský. So, Mr. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. The vote yesterday in the European Parliament was unfortunate in our eyes, but this does not mean a clear activation of Article 7 and it will be up to the Member States which have to agree together, all of them, as they will proceed. About how you've all been kicking us around all the time. To you, Mr President. You're able to combine migration with the purchase of eggs in the store. That's not possible anymore. If you didn't have migration, you'd have nothing. The vote taken yesterday in the European Parliament, as voted by our MEPs, has nothing to do with the migration that you are constantly mentioning everywhere. To you, Mr Bartošek, through Mr President. I don't know what you're talking about. What truth do you want to hear? I don't understand what you're saying. Our foreign policy is clearly stated in the programming statement, so read it. That's where you'll find it all, all the information's public, it's for everyone. And we stand by it, our Prime Minister stands by it. I believe the Minister of Foreign Affairs is behind this. There are clear things. I don't know what truth you want to hear more. Read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u77	Thank you. I therefore now call on Mr Jiří Kobza, Mr Kobz, so far the last one registered with a point of fact. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u78	Thank you, Mr President. After an ideological outburst, I would venture back to the multi-annual framework. Ladies and gentlemen across the political spectrum, we are all here because we have been elected by our citizens to defend their interests. We've been elected citizens who may have different opinions, but we represent them here. The debate that has been said here and which has been discussing in some way the political dimension of this multiannual fiscal framework is completely legitimate and we cannot take the suggestions that have been made lightly. However, I will allow myself to sum up most of the contributions I have heard. It is clear that the multiannual fiscal framework, as presented by the European Commission, is not in the interest of this country. And I dare ask you not to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u79	Thank you. I still have one more actual application. He is Mr. Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I did not last, and I want to respond to the previous speaker from the ANO movement, who said something here about the fact that the foreign policy of the Czech Republic is written in the programme of the ANO movement and in the programme of the government and that it is clear. Friends, it's not like that. Foreign policy is to be run by the Foreign Minister, who is not present today. The State Department is running a guy who's in a weird double role, who's also a MEP, and he's voting yesterday, and the Prime Minister is actually disavowing himself from his vote today. It's a total mess. And to say that nothing is going on and that we have it in a government statement is total alibiism. There really is a need for the government and the government coalition to solve the problem that it has here at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and then perhaps there would not be a completely chaotic and incomprehensible situation, for which unfortunately we are all responsible, and it is the result of the overall political situation here in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u81	Thank you. This was the last factual point for the moment, so we will go back to the standard speeches in the general debate. So, with priority right, I will now request a speech from Minister Schillerová and prepare the chairman of the STAN Club, Mr Farský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm glad it's my turn. Allow, with all due respect, that you approve the position of the Chamber of Deputies on the multiannual financial framework, I will allow you to familiarise yourself with the position of the government. At the beginning of May this year, the European Commission presented a proposal for a multiannual EU financial framework for 2021 to 2027. According to the Commission, the proposed budget is designed to compensate for the effects of brexit. Now, please quote: Ensure adequate resources for cohesion policy and common agricultural policy and increase expenditure on new EU priorities. And on the basis of a proposal from the European Commission, the discussion of the Member States on the future form of the EU budget has begun. The debates should continue during 2019. I would like to stress that the position of government is such that it is critical of this proposal. The key priority that the Czech Republic will want to negotiate is, in particular, sufficient resources for cohesion policy and for the EU's common agricultural policy, and we do not agree with the savings proposed there. The Government of the Czech Republic has a very reserved position in the case of financing of new priorities of the Czech Republic, especially programmes oriented, and will support, in particular, the strengthening of border control programmes or measures to address migration, but only to countries where these problems arise. This means that he has a very reserved attitude towards automatic raising money for various European agencies, e.g. FRONTEX and all that. We do not want to raise these funds, we want to debate this and we are very critical of this and we note that the increase in these funds is more than double, but I have to admit that it is only 3 percent of the total budget overall. In particular, the government will support the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework, supporting the reduction of the total amount of resources, but this reduction must not go beyond cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. The government also believes that the more efficient use of cohesion policy resources will ensure, in particular, that Member States are given greater powers to decide on the focus of funds on national priorities and that the national shares of funds reflect domestic conditions and needs. Therefore, the Czech Republic, and the government in its position, will promote greater flexibility for the use of European resources. It is also crucial for the Czech Government to negotiate favourable future financial conditions for the implementation of the Cohesion Policy Fund. In this context, the government does not agree with the European Commission's proposal for such a dramatic increase in the rate of national co-financing, a reduction in European pre-financing and a tightening of the rule of decommitment. rule N+3 which changes to rule N+2, which means the possibility to draw another two or three years from the year of secondment. Now it's three, two are proposed, and we fundamentally disagree with that. The European Commission's proposal would result in an excessive impact on final beneficiaries and national budgets. As part of the negotiations, we will therefore promote the mitigation of these rules. As far as the common agricultural policy is concerned, we consider both the proposed savings and the mandatory ceiling of direct payments to be problematic. The Czech Republic will seek to mitigate the impact of the cropping and we want the cropping to remain only a voluntary option for Member States, i.e. Member States shall decide on a voluntary basis. It will also be one of the main priorities for the Czech Republic to provide sufficient resources for rural development, where the European Commission proposes the highest savings in proportion. In the case of the revenue side of the budget, the government of the Czech Republic believes that the current system is too complicated and long-term seeks to simplify it. The Czech Republic considers long-term GNI as the most appropriate criterion for determining the amount of Member States' contributions to the EU budget, which best describes the economic maturity of the Member States and thus represents a fair and proven key. In general, the Government of the Czech Republic believes that the Commission's proposed extension of the budget funding range goes against our efforts to simplify. The proposed new own resources, as mentioned by some previous speakers, in particular the source from the consolidated corporate tax base, so-called The CCCTB, present on EU soil, also a source from the sale of emission allowances and a resource based on a contribution for non-recycled plastic packaging materials, would cover only a limited proportion of budget revenues. According to data from the European Commission, it would be around 12 percent of the EU budget revenue. Their introduction would therefore not be effective and beneficial according to the government of the Czech Republic. And, of course, I admit that as far as CCCTB is concerned, i.e. a common corporate tax base, so it's not on the agenda at all. These negotiations have been going on for a long time, because it is very complicated, it is one of the ways of losing national sovereignty to direct taxes, and we are actively involved in these negotiations and are far from mature enough to be accepted. So this isn't even appropriate. I wanted to introduce you to this position. Of course, we want to participate very actively at all levels in the discussion of the multiannual financial framework, we want our voice to be heard in order to take account of our critical comments in order to negotiate the best possible conditions for the Czech Republic. I still owe the answer to Mr Plzák's question on the procedure. If the multiannual financial framework had not been approved, and this has so far historically - I checked with my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance - it would not have happened by the end of 2020 if it had not been approved, so-called 2021. the budgetary make-up, i.e. that money will be used in the amount as it was for 2020 because we have approved the current multiannual financial budget by 2020. This means that this period would extend to 2021 and, at the same time, the Commission would have to submit a new proposal, which would then be between 2021 and 2027. It would certainly not be a good signal because Member States have to agree on a multiannual financial framework. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u83	Thank you, Minister. Now here's a point of fact. Member Mikuláš Peksa, please. In the meantime, I'll read two apologies before you get to the microphone. First of all, Mrs Jana Pastuchová apologises from 15.30 am to the end of the day for personal reasons. And Vice-President of the House Tomáš Hanzel apologizes from 12:30 to 16:00 for work reasons as well. Well, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u84	Thank you. I just wanted to thank the Minister that it was said here that the Government of the Czech Republic would actually fight against the reduction of agricultural subsidies, which is an indirect confirmation of the conflict of interest mentioned here, which I mentioned in the opening post. I would also like to emphasise the important part that was said here in the Minister's speech. Yes, there is a certain risk that the multi-annual financial framework will not be ready yet, but, as you all know, next year's elections will be and, of course, the composition of the European Parliament and the current coalition of people and socialists, which has a majority there, will no longer have to have a majority, which would undoubtedly be positive in approving the multiannual financial framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u85	Thank you for your time and now with priority rights Mr Farský, Mr Jiří Dolejš will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, finally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u86	Thank you for the floor. I wonder where I ended up, where to start again. I will briefly sum this up, and then I will comment specifically on the multiannual framework. That is, the European Parliament's vote, which has been drawn up here. This was a vote in order to preserve and maintain European values and European culture. That is why 448 Members also voted in favour, 197 against and 48 abstained. It's pretty crucial. It was mostly approved. And I am glad that our MEP Standa Polčák and his colleagues have joined this. Because they had the information very specific, and they knew that there was no vote on migration, as some here are trying to push forward and mention that perhaps it was a punishment for someone not being united. It's just fog. Even in the Czech Republic, some are releasing it to cover up their real actions. But there has been a vote that the independence of the courts, the freedom of the media, the threat of civil society, and that subsidies are being abused in Hungary. There has been a vote on what is happening in Hungary. I think it is also in the fundamental interest of the Czech Republic, which is a member of the EU, and thank you for this, because this is why we are experiencing a period of prosperity and security in cooperation with NATO, which has not been here historically on this continent. And because we are in the EU, so if anyone in the Czech Republic threatens freedom of the media or relies on the independence of the courts or somehow restricts civil society or abuse subsidies, we will have a stand. And I'm glad for that. Because that time doesn't have to be far at all. So I understand those who are screaming today, especially those who are close to these issues, that they are screaming today, how much they resent the European Parliament's vote, which drew attention to the damage and violations of these values. Of course, who understands the EU only as a milk cow, this is beyond understanding for him. But the EU is first of all a territory of shared common values. As regards the EU financial framework. This debate took place in the spring of the Committee on European Affairs, where Commissioner Oettinger, who is in charge of budgeting, arrived. It was one of the few meetings attended by the chairman of the agricultural committee, Mr Faltýnek, who, at the time when the Czech Republic did not have the government with confidence, presented the position of the Czech Republic that it was strongly opposed to the reduction of agricultural subsidies. I expressed myself there from the opposition as well as today from the opposition to the fact that I do not think it is the interest of the Czech Republic. If we're talking about poorer countryside, needing to support shops in the countryside and promote quality of life, then the simplest recipe is in grant policy. If we can see how the landscape is drying out, how the soil quality is devalued in a forceful way, when it is able to absorb half of what it was eighty years ago, when we see water resources ploughing, and the best answer to how to fix it is subsidies. There are agricultural subsidies, which, by the way, make up twenty times what goes on in the European budget to protect external borders. 2 percent go to this part and 2 percent go to the security and border control of the European budget and 40 percent go to the common agricultural policy. A huge amount of money that, when used badly, does a lot of damage. But if it's used correctly, it can help a lot. We are the country where the largest ropes are, where the largest farms are. But that leads to what? There will be huge machines left in the fields, smaller ones will not even be able to feed on huge pools. The headquarters is somewhere in the headquarters, either near Prague or in Prague or somewhere in the center. Medium management does not exist at all, and basically results in fields being managed, usually on good five centimeters, because plowing deeper is expensive, it spills fertilizers that are then washed down into rivers, and the result is what we have. Lower water level is falling, lower water is miserable in the Czech Republic. Water disappears in the wells, the ponds rot, and erosion is like it's never been here before. EU subsidy policy and the first step is to stop subsidies. This can help greatly, because if subsidies are not ceilinged, then naturally, and that common sense commands, if you have one thousand hectares and one large machine, the cost per hectare is lower than when you have one hundred fifty hectares. Unit costs just go down, so it doesn't make sense. And that is why the EU is forcing us and convincing us in the long run: Put a stop to it, because you are hurting yourself and it is not in the interest of the Czech Republic. It is in the interest of agricultural big businessmen, but not in the interest of the Czech Republic. That is why we will continue to support the reduction of agricultural subsidies in this direction and in the multiannual financial framework, as there is the potential for rural recovery, rural richness, as well as higher rural employment, while improving soil quality and water quality. This is in the interest of the Czech Republic and its citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u87	That was Mr. Farský. Now I've got three factual points coming up. So first, Mr Jaroslav Holík will appear, Mr Miroslav Kalousek will be prepared and Mr Josef Kott will be prepared. Mr. Holík. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to my colleague Farský's speech and his opinion on how to make agricultural production more efficient. So we're going to put one heavy 50-ton machine on the line to save money, and we're going to destroy the soil completely, because it's going to be absolutely... When I say it, wrinkled. Furthermore, my colleague here prefers subsidies. Subsidy, that's the best form for stealing. The more subsidies, the more it turns into something. And I'm gonna get to that last thing, and I'm gonna quote. "The European Parliament has concluded that there is a threat to the judiciary and to theft of subsidies in Hungary." I remember that in 1968 five states of the Warsaw Treaty concluded that socialism was threatened in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u89	Well, thank you. I shall now ask Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Mr Kott and Mrs Hyťhová will be prepared, still factual remarks. Then we have two more. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u90	Thank you for the floor. You know, comparing the aggressive occupation that has been done without our knowledge, with the democratic vote of the institution that we are part of, is so obscene that it does not deserve any comment other than that it is an abomination for which the previous speaker is certainly not ashamed, but should. Allow me, only in the context of the factual comment, to point out that, of course, as everyone votes according to their conscience, it will happen not only in the European Parliament, but also here that a Member votes differently from the majority position of one or the political party. But here I would like to say for the TOP 09 in the Chamber of Deputies, that we are fully behind the position of our MEPs. In addition, I would like to add my civic position that if democracy in the Czech Republic had ever decreased to such a quality as it is in Hungary at this time, which, unfortunately, cannot be excluded, I would very much like the European Parliament to notice this as a citizen of the Czech Republic and that the European Commission should start proceedings with us on its recommendation. Because the values discussed yesterday in the European Parliament are the values of democracy and freedom, and I would like to live in a democratic and free country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u91	So that was Mr Kalousek. I will now ask Mr Kott to speak, and Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will prepare herself. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I would like to say one thing by your means, Mr President, only Mr Farský, when he has already said so much about agrarian subsidies here. It's not about the money getting to the small ones. By putting a damper on it, the Czech agriculture simply loses its funding framework, and it is not at all about the fact that the money that big companies are pumping today is going to get to the small ones. And the second thing. If you go to the country, the farmers are small and big. And if we think that if the big guys stop farming, that someone new is gonna start farming, then I'm gonna take the liberty of saying it's not gonna be like that. They're gonna start picking up those hectares that run there, and they're gonna become big, and we're gonna shut the door for them. I guess that's just an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u93	Thank you, honourable Member. I now call on Mrs Tereza Hyťhová and another point of fact has come to my attention, Mr Válek. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u94	I would just like to draw attention to the situation where we are discussing such an important point and there is neither the Prime Minister nor any minister other than Mrs Schillerová, the Minister of Finance, which is a really remarkable situation, and when I think about yesterday's situation where the Prime Minister interrupted the meeting, it literally fascinates me. The YES movement, which disassociates itself from the views of its MEPs, has no ministers. At a point like this, it's startling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u95	Thank you. I now call on Mr Válek. It's the last point of fact so far. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, when I was afraid of my own courage, however, through Mr President, I must agree with Mr Holík, because this comparison was quite fitting from my point of view. Socialism and communism were threatened then, and those states responded as they should. God bless them if they don't. They did it and we had communism and socialism. And now democracy is at risk in Hungary, and the European Parliament is reacting as it should. pánbůh bless if he succeeds. That's the difference between the two situations. But otherwise, I totally agree, it's a fitting comparison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u97	Thank you. We will now return to the standard general debate, so Mr Jiří Dolejš. Please take your word for it. We have eight minutes until recess. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u98	Thank you for the floor. I wasn't even hoping, but if I look at the clock, I'm going to try to be as dense as I can, and I hope you'll be able to accommodate me at least in the fact that even though they're three weeks ahead of the election, it doesn't hurt to somehow make things a part of our debate, because it's really come to me at times here like the P.S.M. I think that what we have on the table, so above all, we should concentrate on the motion for a resolution, and not everyone has done so. What's it designed? Not to approve the multiannual financial framework, but to approve the government's position as it appears on an ongoing basis. And the Minister here stressed that the position is critical on specific points, and some points are pierced into the resolution. So I consider it reasonable to concentrate on this whether we are able to accept this current state of play of the position of the Czech Government and whether we are able to adopt a resolution where there is any recommendation and rejection. The more than an hour debate about what happened yesterday in Brussels was a little off this point, and although some probably feel the need to call "Eljen éljen Orbán Viktor!" and others point out that it is a bit complicated in Hungary as regards respect for the independence of the media, the courts that there is sometimes an excessive attack on NGOs and there is a little bit of a problem with human rights, so the vote was only about whether the second article of the European Basic Treaty was fulfilled and whether, for these reasons, the seventh article had to be applied. And that's the point. And that principle should bind us to the fact that the Visegrad states are our partners in certain negotiations, potential allies, and that may not prevent us from being critical if there is something going on in those countries that we do not like. Unfortunately, foreign policy failed in this, although it lay for weeks, perhaps months, in the European Parliament, it was possible to prepare the position and could be more understandable. But that doesn't really belong here. I think that the government stressed, above all, that brexit is an opportunity for reform of European funding, but that the reform is not ready, that these changes should occur more long-term, longer-term, gradually and so that they do not have a disproportional impact on individual Member States, which is an understandable principle for me. Of course, attention must be paid to those places where potential impacts on the Czech Republic are being pierced. These are primarily fiscal impacts, because although the weight of the European budget remains plus minus the same, that means some 1.1 per cent of gross national product, but it is divided into a European 27 according to a slightly different pattern, regardless of the fact that the drawdown of allocations will be less intense, because in vain fame, but time does not wait, the average of the European Union has shifted and we are moving closer to the horizon when we stop being a net beneficiary and one beautiful day, maybe already in this seven-year period, we will become a net payer. So the impacts are there, and if we add more intensive co-financing to that, the first estimate is 60 billion. CZK for the state budget and it can, of course, be much more than that. What is important, and I think this has been mentioned here by Mr Skopeček, that the government is also defined in relation to the requirement to establish a new, more effective mechanism for the enforcement of the principles laid down by primary law. We're kind of on the second article, that's the readings. And that's where it's suggested that the so-called conditionality of drawing be combined with it, for the normal speaking of the Čech, it would mean that we would get a hit, that they wouldn't give us money or anything else. It's understandable that the government is rejecting it. It is also understandable that they see that cohesion money is important to us. I personally add that some defended social costs are part of the cohesion money, and they should not really be touched. If a colleague of Stanjura here called for the percentages, it's in the material, all he has to do is read it. There are those percentages mentioned in the seven chapters, and of course, agriculture is more like the fat one, the cohesion fund is the strongest, protection and security at all, there are some three percent, then there are higher percentages for public administration, etc. There's a way to find it. In that sense, the material is quite clear. What is important is a possible decrease in the drawdown of allocations. It is mentioned here that the Czech Republic should be one of the countries most affected with regard to reality. It's calculated up to 24 percent. Of course, now it's about how to compensate, how to replace it. If the government is saying in its conclusion that it wants to look for additional options and not new sources of funding, it is once again an understandable position for me. So ad hoc, at this point, it is possible to take note of the position, but with the fact that it needs to be closely monitored and maybe at a certain stage not only to harden the diction, but mainly to find an ally for it. So those allies, even if they are sometimes such people as Mr Kaczyński or Mr Orbán, we will need and we will choose the diplomacy accordingly, because without diplomacy, politics cannot be done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u99	Thank you. Now I'd like to read an apology. Mr Marek Novák apologizes today from 13:00 to 19:00 for work reasons. Next in line, I'd like to ask for a performance by Mrs. Helena Langšádlová. Please, Madame, we have two minutes before the scheduled break. [[The MP says he doesn't want to get off in such a short time.]] Of course. Okay, well, I think if none of you object to the fact that we would be at 1 p.m. - I suggest we wait until 1 p.m. so that we don't disturb afterwards - so that we can start the interpelration at 2:30 p.m. Okay. The honourable Member does not wish to speak anymore because her performance would be suspended. I propose that we close the meeting in the morning and meet at 2:30 p.m. at the interceptions. Enjoy your meal. The meeting will continue this afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-13-ps2017-019-03-002-076.u100	Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members, allow me to welcome you back to the Chamber of Deputies' meeting after lunch. Before we continue, let me welcome the delegation from the Parliament of the Republic of Lithuania to the gallery for guests. They are representatives of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs and the Committee on Health. The delegation is led by the Chair of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Rimanté Šalaševičiuté. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you. Before we proceed to the agenda, allow me to read the apologies that have not been read before the end of the morning meeting. Mr Petr Třešňák apologizes to us from 14.30 to the end of the day due to foreign travel and we are sorry by Mrs Jana Krutáková between 14.30 and 18.45 due to negotiations.
