ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u1	5. Government bill amending Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and methods of its solution (Insolvency Act), as amended /German press 71/ - Second reading Under the Government's authority, the bill submitted will be stated by the Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, given that this is a second reading of the bill, which has therefore been discussed quite in detail to date both on the subcommittee on insolvency and then on the Constitutional Legal Committee itself, for which I am extremely grateful to all the members of both the committee and the subcommittee, I will try to present this proposal, virtually. at the time of the introduction of this point, as brief as possible. It is therefore a government bill that has already been submitted in the previous parliamentary term. So it essentially follows up on something that has already been discussed here. The purpose of this bill is to open the institution of debt to a wider group of people. From a factual point of view, it must be said that the institution of debt is already in the law today. Those who reach it fulfill their obligations in relatively large content. By the way, almost 30 per cent of them will pay 100 per cent of their liabilities in the debt relief scheme. However, the problem is that at the time of entry into debt, it is examined whether they will be able to pay at least 30% of their liabilities, which, of course, not everyone is capable of. At the same time, it must be said that the Czech Republic has been in recent years - and it is, without a doubt, largely due to legislation other than insolvency law, virtually. absence of previous legislation, this is due to the fact that we have not had a satisfactory adjustment of consumer credit for a relatively long time. The adjustment is only effective since 2016. So before that, here in the area of loans, in the area of commitments, typically in the area of consumer credit, there was a relatively large jungle, which logically led to the fact that many people often got into the so-called "indiscretion" from their own indiscretions. debt traps. Today we have almost a million people in the Czech Republic in execution. If we add family members to them, people who depend on them, then we get a much higher number. The fact is that most of them are wearing more than one execution, which means they are subject to more executions. There are often five, ten executions, where, of course, these people are not able to repay their debts for the rest of their lives under normal circumstances. What kind of externality does that create? They go to the grey economy, they work black because any income they get is unperspective to them, because they are quite soon losing it. The debt institution should therefore open up to a wider range of people than only those who are able to repay at least 30% of their liabilities within five years. After all, similar legislation applies in all neighbouring countries and the Czech Republic is the strictest in this respect. The draft law, as it is presented and as discussed on the subcommittee and on the committee, comes with two relatively fundamental changes compared to the existing legislation. The first is that under the five-year debt relief scheme, the barrier falls under the obligation to pay at least 30% of the commitment. In other words, the proposal assumes that, in principle, anyone who is prepared and willing to pay back their liabilities, according to his ability, will be able to do so - sometimes it is said that there is a zero option, that I will not have to pay back anything, it is not... But that's quite a shortcut. It's not some debt amnesty. These people will be obliged to pay at least the costs of the insolvency proceedings themselves, which includes VAT being some CZK 1,100 per month and plus, of course, priority claims, such as maintenance and, if possible, other liabilities. In principle, how much they pay back during the five years is not entirely decisive. They have to pay back as much as they can. However, at the end, we are talking about the amendment, which will be tabled by the Constitutional Committee, because the Ministry fully agrees with it and supports it, 30 per cent will apply in view of the possible proof of compliance with the conditions for execution. I don't want to burden myself with this, I suppose the proposal will be introduced later by the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee. The second benefit that this proposal brings is relaxation, virtually. Disengage the debt regime for those who are able to repay more. As a certain benefit for these debtors, the proposal assumes that it will be possible to repay not only at the time of five years but also at the time of three years, specifically if the debt is paid by the person concerned at this three-year time. Specifically, the proposal envisages 50 per cent, but I am already announcing that there will probably be a proposal for some partial adjustments, which, of course, can be discussed further, and which does not break the principle, which, of course, is intended to motivate the debtors to return to normal economic and social status as soon as possible. To come out of that gray zone where their debt regime forces them to enter, so that they don't admit their income, etc. We expect a whole range of positive benefits from the bill. First of all, the exit from the grey zone will, of course, compensate for some distortion in the labour market. At the same time, the state will stop paying any social benefits where it should not pay them, because they will be granted legal income and a number of people will fall out of the scheme. After all, it will also be beneficial for the creditors themselves, even if it does not seem that way at the beginning, namely, that there will be more effective control over whether their debts are fulfilled or not. On that proposal, I can still say that the discussion over him was really quite extensive. We have dealt with it, among other things, with judges who are engaged in insolvency proceedings, and we believe that the proposal we are coming up with, possibly in the wording of the amendments, where we have agreed with the majority when we are talking about proposals from the Constitutional Legal Committee, that is to say, it is an asset. And I really believe that he will be transferred to the next one, which means third, final reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u3	Thank you, too. Before we go any further, I have an apology here. Mr Vít Rakušan apologizes to us from 17.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. And now I remind you that, at first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a committee of guarantee, and the press was ordered by the Committee on Social Policy. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 71/1 to 5. I ask that the rapporteur of the constitutional committee, Mr Jan Chvojka, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u4	Thank you for the floor. That would be a long time to justify those amendments, which are about thirty. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. I'm looking forward to the debate that might be more relevant and interesting than the one that happened a few minutes ago. Yes, it's true that we have an amendment to the Insolvency Act on our desk, a relatively large amendment. I confess that, as a Social Democrat and rapporteur of this law, I am proud to have adopted an insolvency law in 2006, which has been effective since 1. 1. 2008. He helped tens of thousands of people get out of a debt trap in which some of them would be in for the rest of their lives. Some of them would basically live forever under that knutou execution. However, over the past ten years, the insolvency law, even if it helped tens of thousands of people, as I said, did not help everyone who deserved it. For example, single mothers or single seniors or seniors who simply are unable to prove what the law wants them to do in debt at the institute, that is to say, they will pay at least 30 percent of their debts over a period of five years. [[16.50 hours]] This law, or this amendment to the law, therefore, in my opinion what the law brought ten years ago, means a second chance for people who would otherwise have been in an execution trap, opens the second chance to more people. The Minister of Justice has already explained that. It is true that the amendment was, I would say, above all, a large, broad, rich discussion not only on the floor of the subcommittee, where I thank all the members of the subcommittee and the chair of the subcommittee for the execution, or on the ground of the constitutional committee, but also on various colloquiums, symposiums and other platforms. That means this bill is taken from top to bottom, from bottom to top, from left to right, from right to left. This is also the case at the Constitutional Legal Committee, where the final discussion took place on 26 September of this year. You all have that resolution on your computers or on your desks. It's press 71/5. As I was saying at the beginning of my intelligence report, it's 18 pages. So don't be mad at me, Mr President, or Vice-President of the House, I won't read them and don't even justify them. This is, where appropriate, up to all those who have tabled the amendment. I just want to say that the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee is that it first recommends the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to approve the proposal. Secondly, it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt these amendments and additions to this bill. - And I was talking about them a little while ago. It's on 18 pages. Thirdly, it instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Fourthly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur, i.e. me, to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the outcome of this bill at the meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee and to recommend its further discussion as amended by the amendments adopted by the Constitutional Legal Committee. Fifthly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the legislative department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments." This is my news report, and I would like to join the general and then the detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u5	Thank you, too. And now, I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Jan Bauer, to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. Of course, you can justify them by referring to a document in the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have said my opinion on the Government's bill relatively in detail in the first reading and many times in the discussions on the subcommittee on insolvency. Personally, I think it is appropriate to give a helping hand to those people who have really gotten into a lot of trouble, among other things, because of imperfect legislation in the past. On the other hand, I have some doubts that, despite these amendments, above all, by members of the ANO movement to their ministry or to their government, the law that no one knows yet about the final form of which, because it has been said here from the mouth of my previous speaker that we have at this time at least 30 amendments, no one knows what proposal will be in that final version, and may lead, among other things, to a tax relapse, may increase the irresponsibleness of debtors, or may even drive those who have paid back fairly and honestly so far. I will comment on this in the context of the general debate that I have signed up to, but my duty as rapporteur is to introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy of 27 September. It has a total of four points. Firstly, the Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree to the Government's bill. - I am sorry that I will not read all the details as they are part of these resolutions. Secondly, the Social Policy Committee empowers the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee to the Chamber of Deputies - which I do - and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. For the next - and now, please have your attention. There are two accompanying motions for resolution. They look pretty interesting. I believe that I have proposed them, and it is as follows: the Committee on Social Policy asks the Minister of Justice to submit to the Committee on Social Policy the number of debtors who have entered debt in accordance with the new rules, characteristics and structure of these debtors and the average amount of their debts within a period of one year from the date of application of the amendment to the Act on bankruptcy and its solution. - That's three. Fourthly, the Committee considers it desirable that the future effects of the insolvency amendment should also be assessed on an ongoing basis by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in particular in the light of the claims made in the explanatory memorandum presented together with the Government's draft law, under which the new rules of dedebtion will help to get debtors out of debt traps and return them from the grey zone and the dependence on social benefits to active economic life, which is to bring savings on the part of public budgets. So many resolutions of the Committee on Social Policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u7	Thank you. Please refer the motion for an accompanying resolution to the rapporteur. I am now opening a general debate to which eight Members, Mr Bauer, Mr Feri, Mr Výborný, Mr Sadovský, Mrs Ožanová, Mr Farský, Mr Kolařík, Mr Benda, joined Mrs Valachová. So we're at nine. Did Mr Chvojka report with priority rights? Am I supposed to understand that? Because written applications have a different priority. [[Yes.]] So, Mr Chvojka's rapporteur with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u8	Thank you once more for the floor, Mr Vice-President. That's right, you weren't paying attention. I have already volunteered and asked for the floor in the general debate as well as in the detailed one as rapporteur. Firstly, we must fulfil one obligation that we have agreed on on the basis of a constitutional committee and which is generally useful for discussing this press, which means that any amendment tabled today is an amendment, where the basis for the discussion is the amendment as a whole which has been adopted by the Constitutional Committee. I'm looking at Chairman Marek Benda, am I correct? Yes, I'm saying it right. That means we should vote on it. Maybe he'll tell you in his ear how to interpret correctly what I'm saying, Mr. Chairman Benda... Then he'll say it. And then I wanted to briefly pause on my amendment, which I will then apply to in the context of a detailed discussion. It is an amendment that was created in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice. I present it in accordance with the provisions of § 94 para. Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 of 23 July 1987 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (OJ L 256, The content of this amendment is the technical amendments to the Law on Courts and Judges in connection with the planned introduction of the allocation of insolvency assets in courts by means of a random selection by means of the so-called allocation generator, in order to exclude the possibility of influencing the allocation of such matters. In this context, I would like to remind myself that the last Chamber of Deputies has decided that this method of allocating matters by chance applies only to insolvency matters. For most other judicial agendas, the allocation of matters will take place on the basis of the so-called wheelling system, aka wheel. By my proposal, it is intended only to remove certain interpretational uncertainties that arose at the initiative of the Regional Courts prior to the introduction of a new system in its life. [[17,00 hours]] The amendment therefore directly relates to the content of the Government's proposal in the sense that the allocation generator will be allocated to all insolvency cases, including the proposal to authorise debt relief, which forms the centre of gravity of this agenda. First of all, it must be built on the fact that the allocation generator does not really touch on the allocation in other judicial agendas, and the rules for the allocation of insolvency cases need to be adapted to the fact that the actions in insolvency proceedings are tied by relatively very short deadlines, which need to be complied with in all cases, and it is finally necessary to leave the Presidents of the courts sufficient flexibility in drawing up the work schedule and organisation of the work in courts. Thank you for your attention. I will then sign up for this amendment in the context of a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Benda will now come forward with a factual remark which will clarify the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u10	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would just ask that we vote now on the fact that we are discussing the House Press 71 as amended by the House Press 71/5, which is the resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee, which is actually - we are not calling this a comprehensive amendment, because we have not changed the original, but we have changed so much there that we have been able to deal with it and to make it clear what the proposals are being made for, which is why we have proposed this to the committee last week. Everyone is counting on it, everyone is giving it this way, but I think we must formally vote at the beginning of the negotiations in the general debate. So we are discussing House Press 71 as amended by House Press 71/5.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u11	I agree that this must be voted on. Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Ferjenčík, is still making a point of fact. I suppose it's for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u12	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to support this proposal by my colleague, Benda, who voted for the Constitutional Committee. Although, in some specific provisions, we prefer the original government draft to the amendment of the Constitutional Legal Committee, it is far more rational for the Chamber of Deputies to take the draft, which has already made several dozen changes through the Constitutional Legal Committee, and to make amendments to it, otherwise we will go crazy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u13	Thank you. In that case, I will call my colleagues to the O.R. because we will vote in a matter of fact. I'll wait for my colleagues to settle in the benches. I see an application for check-out, so I'm gonna check you out. Please sign up with your cards. For those who are coming now, I will repeat that we will be voting on continuing to discuss the House press 71 in the text that is in the House press 71/5, that is, in the version that came out of the Constitutional Legal Committee. It seems that the number of Members present has settled. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 239 126 Members and Members were registered, for 125, against no one. The proposal has been adopted, so we will continue to discuss it. Let's get back to the debate. Thank you. I now beg Mr Bauer, who is the first to be entered in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u14	Mr President, thank you again for the floor. I am glad that the previous resolution has passed, because I cannot imagine otherwise that we would adopt some meaningful form of the final law. Let me make a few notes on the several months' work. I am very pleased that, on the ground of both the subcommittee on insolvency and on the ground of the constitutional law committee, through many amendments, the original government version, which was presented by Minister Pelikán, has been significantly undermined, and which, I think, was generally very unacceptable. That's what I wanted to say right away. In these many amendments, there are proposals that I personally - and I hope they will have wider support - support, because they will undoubtedly simplify the debt-debting process and the paperwork associated with it, which I think is very important. There are also some other, other sensible suggestions. I myself have advocated this in the Constitutional Legal Committee, and I hope that it will pass at third reading, a proposal that unifies the practice of judges deciding on reductions in the income of entrepreneurs in insolvency, and I will be very happy if this proposal finds your support. Maybe that's from the positive stuff. I sometimes feel that, and I saw it at the subcommittee meeting, that during the discussion of this amendment, it was a little forgotten what the primary purpose of the insolvency law was. Let's face it, it's the proportional satisfaction of the creditors. I have sometimes heard proposals that may even belong on the ground for example to the Committee on Social Policy, because that is the purpose of each either the last Act on bankruptcy and settlement or the new Act on insolvency, and if it sometimes wants to help, I have the impression that some of the proposals do not even belong to the discussion of the amendment to the insolvency law. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] I have already said here at the outset that we are aware of this and we are ready and it is right that we should lend a helping hand to those who have fallen into a debt trap and have gotten into unsolvable problems, among other things due to the lack of legislation in the past, on the other hand, the amendment is not only helping these people. We basically set rules for future and future debtors. That is why it is essential that this amendment can at the same time prevent new rules from taking advantage of various speculators and people who, at the time they are in debt, know well that they will never meet their obligations. I'm afraid these insurance policies are still missing from the bill. I have already missed the original version and new risks have arisen, for example -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u15	I'll cut you off, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u16	I can't hear myself either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u17	We're getting noise levels up. I would like to call on all Members to move their negotiations into the foyer unless they are discussing this press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u18	I repeat - not only in the original version, but also in the new version, new risks arise, for example, in connection with the fact that there is a proposal to lessen the debt of seniors, and yet we all know how common and easy it is in practice in some families to indebt grandma or grandpa, because no one will take anything on them in the finals. I fear that the amendment will not only allow the abuse of the debt relief system, but it can strengthen the debt relapse and can lead to even greater irresponsibleness for debtors who have been willing to pay off their commitments so far, but can change that decision. It may also be worth recalling that these concerns sound not only from the right-wing opposition, but they are very often the views of representatives of municipalities and cities who are also creditors, or we can hear this from creditors, but for example last week I heard at an interesting conference here in the Chamber of Deputies the opinion of a representative of a nonprofit organization working with prisoners. This person, who has a wealth of experience with his clients, has a very similar view. He's worried about softened rules and the subsequent behaviour of some debtors. Specifically, some proposals that I would consider problematic. Firstly, it is a proposal intended to allow debt relief after three years if the debtor repays its 50 per cent of the liabilities. Of course, the logical question is, why can't he pay back a few years longer like other consumers and pay his debt completely? On the other hand, I consider it reasonable, for example, to propose a proposal by my colleague Pavel Blažek, who wants to limit the level of satisfaction of less than 30% of the debts incurred before the adoption of legislation to protect debtors, i.e. since December 2016, when the new Consumer Credit Act came into force. [[17.10 hours]] It also bothers me very much that this law does not directly define the value of an inexpensive dwelling and leaves it to the future ministerial decree. It's a relatively big problem. In my opinion, something like this should have been included directly in the law in view of the legal certainty of debtors and creditors. As some of you know, the committee discussed a proposal that would anchor this value on the basis of the normative housing costs directly in the law. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Justice rejected this proposal with the fact that the normative costs are not appropriate source data, and it should therefore be recalled that two years ago, the Ministry worked with them in the original version of the law, very benevolently and more than helpfully to the debtor. So there is a real concern about how the future ministerial decree will be processed, how it will actually look, and whether we will not see a situation where it will delay people with millions of hacienda. Last but not least, I consider it important that the debtor's honest and dishonest intention be strictly assessed. I will, in this sense, submit my own amendment, which I have already read into the system and to which I will apply in the context of a detailed debate. In conclusion, perhaps three also problematic things. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at this point, I think the Minister himself does not know exactly how many people will enter the new law under the new rules, first of all. For another, no one has ever been able to figure out exactly how much this whole thing is going to cost. I asked the government's representatives and the Treasury Secretary about this, and unfortunately, I didn't get any answers. Last but not least, I consider it very important that the needs of the relevant courts should also be heeded, because I am unable to imagine whether thousands or tens of thousands of people are going to sign up for the debt process, whether insolvency administrators and the courts themselves will have sufficient capacity to cope with the strain. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u19	Thank you, too. And now I ask Mr Feri and Mr Výborný will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u20	Thank you very much for him, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, we are at second reading, it is not an entirely appropriate place for some political talks or policymaking, so allow me to comment briefly on my amendments, which I will then sign up to in the context of a detailed debate. The entry thesis, and the Minister has already outlined it here, was such - first to shrink or remove it, that is the original draft, the barriers to entry into debt relief, and the second thesis, which later appeared, which with great gratitude I acknowledge, was to speed up and facilitate the entire insolvency proceedings. So the parties to the first original draft were counting on seven years, hypothetical, but I think very much, in case it happened, the real zero satisfaction of unsecured creditors' claims. Later, it was modified for five years, 30% and a rebuttable legal assumption, which in some way assumed the debtor's efforts to satisfy creditors, and luckily I have to knock and thank my colleague Patrik Nacher for putting forward and going through a proposal that tightens the proposal compared to Dr Pelikán's original proposal, but I think very in the right direction. It says this very possibly so that there is simply no system for the system, which I think anybody wants, i.e. somehow kidnap the remuneration of the insolvency administrator, the costs of individual expenses, pay the CZK 1,100 a month and try this way for a certain period of time, and then it's all forgiven. That is what I think is directly contrary to the principles of insolvency proceedings, as laid down in the law itself. There has been a slight lack of motivation, which, of course, is to be implemented in some way, or is to be initiated by insolvency administrators, and therefore I also propose the first amendment which concerns the modification of the Institute, which the amendment already assumes, respectively. it already exists in its present form, but it is explicitly expressed here, or expressed more explicitly, and that is the interruption and extension of the debt-debting process. We're actually saying here that hypothetically the debtor wouldn't have to pay anything, virtually. It depends on what kind of amendment passes and what form it passes through the House, so at least let the debtor be motivated by the fact that, after a certain period of time laid down in the proposal for three years, and after a certain repayment of the debt, after at least a certain degree of satisfaction of the claims of unsecured creditors, in this case 20 per cent, the debtor could ask the insolvency court to suspend the debt relief. So that he could be called. Breathe in, try non-debtive life and then return to fulfilling your duties. It should be a matter more or less exclusive, it should not be entitled entirely for everyone, as it is assumed in the original draft, and it should serve to really those who will want to try, who will want to satisfy their creditors, have been encouraged in this way to try a little bit more. In this current form, the proposed length of interruptions is up to 12 months, which is in our view too helpful. In this case, for this amendment, the maximum length of interruptions is proposed for six months, and the unpredictable life situations, such as job loss or long-term disability, are addressed by the already existing and in the draft incarnate institution of the extension of the debt relief process. This is an incentive amendment. And then there is an amendment that follows up on the question of speeding up or facilitating insolvency proceedings. Several amendments have gone through, and within that comprehensive Amendment 71/5 from the Constitutional Legal Committee, in fact, most of the technical issues that are on the subject of what needs to be presented, i.e. This applies to obligations which burden insolvency administrators or insolvency courts, or service and many other matters. So this proposal allows, and the colleague has already mentioned this, to make it easier for debtors to enter debt relief by not knowing how many there are, and this would widen the circle, practically expanding the range of entities, persons who would be entitled, or who would want to, that is important, the circle would not be expanding, but more people would be interested in it, more legal professions would appear to be making proposals for the authorisation of debt relief. An accreditation amendment would introduce this. There is a certain set of entities that are entitled to write for debtors proposals for the authorisation of debt relief, insolvency proposals, and there is a fixed remuneration, which unfortunately is not linked to some mechanism that would develop over time and would take into account inflation and so on. There is a fixed amount of 4,000 in the case of a proposal to authorise the debt of the individual, 6,000 in the case of a proposal to authorise the joint debt of the spouses. For this reason, even after the discussions with the Minister, I proposed a compromise option for an increase of CZK 5,000 and CZK 7,500 in the joint debt of the spouses, which could somehow make the drafts more attractive in the future, so that the plug would at least be removed at the beginning. If that cork is formed in insolvency courts, it's possible to assume that it is. But I am very happy for the efforts of colleagues who have come up with new amendments that will humiliate the agenda on insolvency sections. And the final proposal concerns the establishments and employees of insolvency administrators. I'm leaving him with another debate on the Constitutional Legal Committee. There are several options from which we will be able to choose, the most recent variant from Mrs Ožanová and the variant from Mr Blažek. These are three amendments and I will then sign up to them in the context of a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u21	Thank you, too. And now I beg Mr Excellent, who is enrolled in the general debate, and Mr Sadovský will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u22	Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Dear Minister of Justice, Dear Colleagues, Dear Colleagues, may I perhaps give a more detailed opinion on the amendment to the insolvency law tabled. I will go back to the debate at the beginning and to the rather unconventional legislative procedures where we have some House press, which we are already discussing at second reading in the text of the 18-page, some quasi-komplex amendment. Unfortunately, I think that's a bit of an unfortunate procedure, but it doesn't go at the head of the current minister, but it goes at the hands of the original translator, Minister Pelikán. I think that this is precisely an example of how we should not work under the legislative procedure and should not present to the House prints which, apparently, then here in the House, must go through such a profound recast. Unfortunately, it is not only a question of insolvency law, but also of some. On the other hand, I want to say quite clearly from the communication with Minister Kněžínek so far that these things are changing significantly for the better. [[17.20 hours]] I would like to sum up the work of the subcommittee on enforcement, insolvency and debt relief. Somewhere in the media, it appears that the House is blocking the negotiation of the novel and that we are not paying attention to it. Please, these are myths. I really want to disprove that. That's what the rapporteur said. The subcommittee has met seven times over this material. Only those 52 amendments were discussed for seven hours. This clearly illustrates that it did not really lie anywhere. I confess that the complexity for me personally as an MP may have been an excellent school. And for that, I should thank Minister Pelikán, because, as far as legislation is concerned, this really was a great training. After the seven hours spent with the Ministry of Justice and with the Minister himself over those amendments, the very basis was created, which subsequently passed through a rather smoothly constitutionally legal committee. I would also like to thank the Minister and the Ministry of Justice for their cooperation, colleagues from the subcommittee and also the legislation of the Chamber of Deputies and the staff of the Constitutional Legal Committee. He certainly deserves it, because there was a lot of work over it, and many hours have been spent here. Thank you. And now for the novel itself. I don't want to repeat what the rapporteur said. Just very briefly. The key thing is that the whole philosophy of debt is changing. That means the ambition here is clear, and that was already on the original proposal. We want to get more people into the debt process than we do today. That huge gap where we have almost 900 thousand. people burdened with executions and more than 420 thousand of them. plus minus, now probably a plus, they're burdened with multiple executions, which means three or more, is that every year about 20 thousand enter debt. people, because they just don't get there because they don't meet the conditions. And that changes with this proposal. I believe that it will be adopted, as the amendments have also been approved. That means we're going to allow almost everyone to enter de facto. The only limit, the crucial limit, will remain the amount of debt, which must not exceed a thousand times the existential minimum, which today amounts to about 2.2 miles. Crowns. It's very important that the plug that's at the entrance is removed. Our ambition and our amendments were to keep the cork from moving anywhere, because if we moved it to the end of the process, we wouldn't be helping anything, and it would be wrong. Nota bene the bad result wouldn't have been known for five years. This really was not our ambition, our goal, and therefore one of the important elements, and that is actually the content of the 18 pages, say some 80 percent, are proposals that govern the process economy of the entire debt-debt process. They shall have a significant simplification of the proceedings before insolvency courts. That is why we have also been intensively communicating with insolvency judges. At the same time, it has to simplify the work and clearly set principles and rules for insolvency administrators. Because if there's a lot of emphasis on someone right now in the process, it's gonna be courts and insolvency administrators. And maybe that's why, a moment ago, a colleague named Dominik Feri here justified an increase in the fee for writing. I don't think it's important and important. Even those who pursue it do not require it. Because if the amendments go through and simplify the whole paper in a significant way, there is really no reason to increase the remuneration. Nota bene, if we agree here that we want to help debtors, so if we burden them with another higher payment, that is, the payment for the account is obviously paid by the debtor, I think that would not be the way in the right direction. But I take it it's a total marginality in the entire content. The key thing that has been going on for a long time is the five years and the long-lasting red light that the debtor must have in front of him to know that after the five years he will live in very poor conditions and must fulfill everything so that the debt relief is not lifted. This means that he has to do his utmost not only to fulfill what is already being ordered by law, that is, to pay the insolvency administrator and to pay the creditors the same amount, but to pay at least 30 percent of the debt, because the judge will then assess his efforts. That is why we have clearly defined in one amendment that the debtor is obliged to make every effort that can be demanded fairly. It is a wording which, of course, must then be dealt with by those judges and administrators, because if any dishonest intention is indicated there, and that is the answer to the objection, because there is a kind of zero that remains, then the person will actually be under the supervision of the administrators and judges, and if any dishonest intention is indicated, then simply and simply, during the five years of debt relief will be abolished. I think that this is part of the whole ambition and the subcommittee - looking for a reasonable balanced solution, where on the one hand we know that there are serious creditors and not only scumbags, and their rights also need to be defended to a reasonable degree, and on the other hand, there are debtors who are also responsible, who are aware of their debts and who want to fight those debts. And then, of course, there will be a group of debtors who don't give a damn. We can accept anything and they won't do it anyway, because life outside the standard economic zone suits them. And nothing will help them, or they won't help them. Well, of course we can't deal with that. There is one more thing I would like to stress. Some amendments aim, and I also consider this to be very reasonable, to those who are, say, more vulnerable, whether they are elderly people or, for example, single mothers. It is precisely the priority of paying maintenance, when the debtor in question must pay the maintenance, otherwise he simply will not be in debt, it is very necessary and very important. I am glad that this has also appeared in the framework of the amendments. Let me just say one more thing. The agreement, and finally it is an agreement with the Ministry of Justice, was such that we do not want to deal with the remuneration of insolvency administrators in the framework of the amendment to the insolvency law, although there were such ambitions or are. I don't think it's reasonable, because we don't really know what it's gonna do to the system. The agreement is that we will return to this matter one year after the amendment takes effect, and then we will discuss whether to include some incentive element in the remuneration of insolvency administrators and, where appropriate, how. At this point, it would be a little crystal ball divination. Personally, I think it is better to leave this matter at the level of the Minister's decree, not to put it into the law, where it always changes considerably. I would like to remind you very briefly that the amendment itself is not self-sustainable. It must be said that there will be no winners and no losers. If we accept something compromise, there will always be objections from one side or the other that we have not sufficiently spared the rights of those or those. But we can't go the other way here, it's really about finding a reasonable balanced compromise. And it is important that further accompanying measures be taken in parallel to the amendment. One of the keys I consider is the regulation of the government's regulation on the so-called uninhibitable minimum, which is now fixed strictly and actually causes those debtors to have no incentive to make more money, they have no incentive to work well enough to receive rewards, bonuses, to have possibly two employment conditions and so on, and so on, because everything above the amount, which, if it is a separate person, is about CZK 9,338 today, so the amount will simply be confiscated anyway. I think it's important to involve a motivational factor that says yes, you're handy, you work, you do what you can, so you'll have more. At the same time, of course, the larger amount will also go to pay off the debts and liabilities to creditors, so creditors will also make money on it. It's very important. We have asked the Justice Department to address this matter. We have a basis for debate on the subcommittee, and we believe that this will also change at the level of the government regulation, and it will benefit those who are currently in insolvency. An important part, of course, will be the adjustment of the execution order. The key thing that would significantly reduce the number of executions from my point of view is the possibility of tax write-downs of impregnable claims, where today creditors are only able to report to the Financial Administration, they are launching a clearly futile execution. This is a thing that has failed to prepare for this novel. We are working on it and already in the announced printing of the amendment to the Enforcement Order this must be incorporated, because this will indirectly affect the insolvency process as well. [[17.30 hours]] Then there are other things like that, for example. here already lying printing to limit advertising on consumer loans, financial literacy, etc., but these are things accompanying. All I'm saying is that the amendment to the Insolvency Act itself is not self-savability and must be accompanied by further action. Finally, let me briefly introduce two amendments, which I am putting separately outside the comprehensive proposal from the constitutional committee. The one is the only point in about 18 where the Ministry and I finally disagreed. This amendment will then be read in a detailed debate. It's actually about what's supposed to be part of the debt waiver proposal. Because if we really want to simplify this and we're changing the entry system, I believe it's pointless that the projected revenue for the next 6 or 12 months is part of the proposal, because it's going to be crystal ball divination anyway. Therefore, I propose that the proposal should contain only data on the debtor's current income and expected revenue. This too will be a number that will really be a prerequisite. But the amount of income that the debtor expects would not have any effect at all on whether or not the debt is authorised. So I think it's pointless to burden it with this. We also propose that data on the debtor's income be sufficient in the last 6 months, not in the last 12 months, and that there is no need to document the documents, because debtors are often in a very precarious situation, then they are dragging it somewhere from shoeboxes under their beds, they cannot find documents on income etc., it is probably unnecessary to prevent them from quickly processing a proposal for authorisation of debt relief. So this is one proposal that concerns procedural economics, which will then be read in a detailed debate. The second thing, let's say, is more fundamental. It's a matter of a little political nature. It is an amendment which I propose, together with Mr Petr Sadovský of the club YES, and concerns the second option, namely the possibility of debt relief for three years if the debtor repays 50 per cent of the debt. We personally believe, and so we have consulted with our colleague Sadovský that this possibility is quite dangerous. Because if someone is able to pay back 50 per cent in three years, I am convinced that they are able to pay back even 100 per cent or significantly more over the said five years. We understand the ambition of the Ministry, which, of course, is based on some foreign experience, although we believe that it would be very appropriate to raise this threshold towards creditors. After relatively complicated negotiations with the petitioners, we reached a compromise solution of 60 percent. We will therefore propose that the fulfilment of the debt waiver be approved if the debtor pays at least 60 per cent of their claims to unsecured creditors within three years of the approval of the debt waiver. I'm saying it's a compromise that we've come to in some way. And I thank you in advance for its support, because I think it is one of the ways and one of the symbols to come up with a reasonable compromise solution. Again, there won't be any winners, and I believe there won't be any losers. Thanks for supporting the whole amendment, because it will really help address the desperate situation of debt traps and also the very bad situation of creditors in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u23	Thank you. That was Mr Výborný, and I call on Mr Petr Sadovský next to the general debate and Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u24	Thank you. Hello, Mr President, government, colleagues, colleagues. My previous speaker, Mr. Výborný, has already said almost everything for me. I'd like to make a brief comment on that. This is a relationship where, of course, 50 per cent of the basic amendment was proposed in three years on the Constitutional Legal Committee. The amendment then proposed 75 per cent in three years, 70 and 66. After consulting and explaining the Ministry, it was clear to us that when the debtor had to pay the priority payments and the increase in debts would stop him, that it was unbearable, because it did not motivate him completely and could fall back into the grey zone. Sixty percent that we've prepared, so that's the option that seems to be a compromise. I think it's acceptable for most of the House, so I don't think it's entirely negative for the Ministry. I wanted to ask you to support this proposal, when I, too, or the YES movement, am the creator, and I will be glad if you give support to this proposal in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u25	Thank you and I now call on Mrs Zuzana Ožanová to prepare the Member... Excuse me, I have a point of fact here. I'm sorry. All right, Professor, you've got a chance to get out. Well, I'm sorry, madam, I just got a kick out here. Yes, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u26	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I just wanted to clarify that I listened to my fellow Member Mr Sadovský speech that this proposal essentially came from the ANO workshop. Just to make sure there's no mistake. This proposal was a joint proposal agreed with Mr Výborný. I like a fair statement. And I myself, even though I was surprised that we had just agreed on the amount of 60 percent, consider it better from the point of view of the challenge that it carries, that debts are to be fulfilled after all. So this is the joint effort of both of these subjects.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u27	Thank you. So, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová and Mr Jan Farský will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, the supervision of the insolvency administrator should be an important measure against the abuse of debt. However, in order for the role of the insolvency administrator to be exercised as foreseen by the insolvency law, it should be established that the persons through whom the insolvency administrator may act in the performance of his duties are persons for whom there are guarantees of professional performance of the entrusted activities. I therefore propose in my amendment number 1389, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate, to exclude the possibility that one employee involved in the performance of the duties of insolvency administrator may also be employed by another insolvency administrator at the same time, because of the exclusion of conflicts of interest. Furthermore, it should be established that persons through whom an insolvency administrator may act in the performance of its duties are sufficiently qualified and that there are guarantees of professional performance of the activities entrusted to them. Therefore, in my Amendment No 1390, I propose an adjustment aimed at removing the persistent interpretational uncertainties of the professional public about the manner in which the insolvency administrator performs its duties. The insolvency administrator shall perform its duties in person, through his or her employee or employee of the debtor. In specially justified cases, the insolvency administrator may also perform the function through other persons, which are typically classified by specialised experts from legal, economic and other fields. As in the case of notaries, a wide representation of the insolvency administrator is also excluded by third parties under the contract. As regards the use of third parties for certain secondary activities in the performance of the function of insolvency administrator, e.g. In preparing the documents and drafts of the proceedings of the insolvency administrator, it should now be clear from the legislation that it is only exceptionally permissible in insolvency proceedings in specially justified cases. The proposed amendment shall also specify the liability of the insolvency administrator for damage or other damage caused by persons to whom it may use for the performance of its duties. It is also proposed to anchor the explicit obligation of the insolvency administrator to use only employees with minimum education and professional experience for activities in the performance of the insolvency administrator. For the proper performance of the activities and functions of the insolvency administrator, due to their specific position in insolvency proceedings, it is necessary to require the employment of only qualified staff, if the insolvency administrator is to use them for the performance of their duties. The required professional experience is then similar to the professional experience required for the insolvency administrator itself. However, it varies significantly in shorter length.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u29	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Jan Farský to speak and Mr Lukáš Kolářík will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to two, respectively. three issues in this law, which I believe are important, should not be overlooked, and I have also incorporated them into the amendments that are already being read in the system. One theme is the determination of a thousand times the life limit as the limit for whether someone is allowed in or not in debt, which can then give him the light at the end of the tunnel. I'm just suggesting we cancel it, and I'll tell you why. Of course, the amount of 2.2 million looks high enough at first glance to meet the fact that even such a person can get rid of debts, on the other hand, it is necessary to look at the history of those debts. And it has often happened that out of the tens of thousands of debts through sanctions, fines, incredible interest, the amount could have grown to such a high, perhaps an $2.5 million amount. And this is a situation where these people, who originally owed CZK 50,000 in the principal, could not participate in the finals and would remain outside the company, would remain outside the whole system of how it works in the state, apart from receiving benefits and various aids. [[Nesroz.]] It could be said that it was enough to look back and see how the debt was incurred, and to identify the original principal there, but it doesn't work very well, because the debts were often traded and the accessories were capitalized and basically poured into a new debt, so you won't find the original debt in it like 50,000. That is why I propose to cancel this amount. I am glad that the whole law is not taken lightly and that he is given great attention in the House, although after the change of the Minister of Justice for a moment it has slowed down slightly, but here I would like to thank my colleague Marek Výborný, who has taken up the law and is actually accompanying him through these House aisles. It's a big problem that we're dealing with here today, maybe bigger than we're willing to admit, because there's almost a million people in execution somewhere. Those who are in an endless execution, that is, in a situation where they are never able to get rid of their debts despite basically all of life's efforts, maybe they are about half a million according to experts' estimates. And these are people who, under the current legislation, have no reason to even start trying to pay back, have no reason to be active at all, have no reason to try to get out of the trap, because it simply cannot. The law that's being discussed here today at second reading is supposed to give them that chance. He will give them a chance to see the situation, which, of course, was partly due to their own faults, but which partly increased with legislation, which was valid at least until the end of 2016 in the Czech Republic, so these people will have a chance. What's it gonna bring? It will bring for them the possibility that they are no longer mere beneficiaries and dependent on the aid of the state, and maybe sometimes on some black profit, but that they should be people who, after some period that is discussed here, maybe three years, five or maybe seven years in the original bill, so that they can return to work after this period and maybe start a new life. We're talking about 500,000 people in execution, but they also need to be attributed to their family members, their descendants. And that's the incalculable damage we're facing here if we don't start dealing with it, because naturally, in such families, the stereotypes of behavior are passed down from generation to generation. On this point, I would therefore like to put an amendment to one of the major weaknesses that these amendments have so far in my view, and I will now refer specifically to Mrs Malá and Mr Nacher's amendment, who, on the one hand, sympathically speaking to the seven-year curse, have reduced the seven-year poverty that the debtors are going through to five years, but have put the final condition that if they pay more than 30% of their debts, the court does not judge anything and the debt is completed, but if they pay less than 30% of their debts, the court considers it. It considers whether they have acted responsibly enough for the five years, whether they have done all they can for the five years, and it can so easily happen that someone who enters debt relief and has to live with the minimum for five years, who doesn't really want to accept work, even if his education doesn't match it, after five years, will be told that he has paid only 24 percent of his debts, and debt is therefore cancelled and as if he hadn't done anything as if he hadn't tried anything. Try to put yourself in a position of such a person, where you will be given the opportunity to live in poverty for five years with uncertainty as to whether it will do any good at the end. You'd go into debt like that, wouldn't you? Well, not me personally. Therefore, I propose that if a debt relief scheme takes place for a whole five years, and this debt relief will not be lifted over the five years, that means that the insolvency administrator will not find a reason that the debtor would behave irresponsiblely, that he would not try to repay the debt, that he would not lead a life that would have been the one to maximize repayment of the debt, so if he can do this, if five years would behave actually politely enough not to judge the case again after five years. It's not about debugging the courts, it's not primary, even though of course it's one of the positive externalities it'll bring, but the important thing is that the man won't live in such uncertainty. And if he doesn't act right, he's gonna be suspended early in the five years. In the beginning, too, when the debt is to enter, we have to assume that it is not completely automated. The court is assessing whether this is not led by dishonest intent, whether it will be able to pay at least the remuneration of the insolvency administrator, maintenance and other mandatory sums, this must not be accompanied by recklessness, negligence and, in the last ten years, it must not go through debt at that time. And so these two moments here I suggest that they change in that law so that there is no limit to the debt for accession, but in order to judge whether debt is worthwhile, and at the same time, in order that if someone walks through it in quotes with a curse, with the misery that they have to pay back, they have to sell everything, they have to do their utmost to repay those debts, so that at the end of those five years, they don't be in the assessment of whether it was all for nothing at all. I fear that the amendment will then have a much smaller impact and that it will not actually fulfil what the petitioner brought it to the Chamber of Deputies for approval and for discussion. I have an alternative proposal for those five years. Why alternative and why I even remind him of him here. I'm even suggesting that the repayment period shouldn't be just three years old. Why am I suggesting, from your point of view, an overly helpful option? Because seven years from the original proposal would be a unique one. You won't find that in Europe. A three-year debt relief solution is far more frequent. There are even countries where it takes a year to clean up and get a fresh start. And why three years? Since 2016, a directive has been under discussion, which at the moment concerns tradesmen, which should be approved within two years, and it is discussed that it could also apply to individuals, consumers who so far have in their proposal that debt relief should take place in three years. [[17.50 hours]] The idea that we will now approve a bill that will allow us to enter into five-year debt relief, and over the course of the five years here we will discuss the implementation of a directive that will introduce three-year debt relief, is quite confusing. So this amendment is supposed to draw attention to this and put into consideration. And it is also a call for the Ministry of Justice to analyse this situation around the directive for discussion between second and third readings so that we can express our views on this in a guarantee committee so that we can be responsible so that those who are in this unpleasant situation do not get into even more trouble. I will sign up for those amendments that are inserted into the system in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u31	So, that was Mr. Farský. Now I'll read the apologies. Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes until the end of the meeting, for health reasons he apologizes from 17.30 to the end of the meeting day Jan Řehounek, on 3. 10. between 17.30 and midnight, for family reasons, Mr Lenka Kozlová apologizes and Mr Petr Pávek apologizes between 17 and 19am for family reasons. So, let's move on. So I have two factual points in the next order. I will be the first to request a speech from Mr Marek the Výborný and Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Well, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u32	Thank you for the floor. I'm just gonna do two things in a nutshell. Information on the European directive has been heard here, of course we know about it. But either we say that the problem is really serious and that we want to deal with it as quickly as possible, because even the debtors and the creditors are waiting for it in the finals, or we will be waiting here for it to be approved - it is not yet approved, it is now in the European Parliament, yes. Well, I think it's better knowing that we're gonna have to reopen the law in four or five years, so it's better to accept something now. That's the first thing. And the second thing, through you to a colleague of Farský. I'd really like to disprove the fear that after five years the debtor might cry over his earnings, because some judge is gonna squeal a whip and say no, I'm not gonna owe you a debt. It's just not possible. First, if a dishonest intention is indicated during debt relief, it will simply be cancelled and will not be waiting for five years to pass. That's one thing. And the second thing is that the judge should, if the debtor doesn't actually meet that 30%, he should assess whether the person really did everything he could. And if that is the case, yes, he has made a fair effort that can be demanded of him, so he will simply be indebted. And I'd like to ask you to trust the courts and not assume that those judges in that sense will make their own decisions. They won't. But those judges are the important traffic light that should stay there at the end. The moment we open it up completely, I think there's a moral hazard here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u33	Well, thank you for keeping time. Now, two more factual points, so Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared and Mr Farský will be prepared. Okay, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fourth or so good afternoon. I would like to respond to my colleague Farský through you, if he is listening to me. I don't know if it's because it's three days till the election, but I don't understand his proposal. I feel that he has not read our amendments or participated in the subcommittee. At the same time, we all agree that there is no black and white solution, that there is no debtor who is just irresponsible, and on the contrary, there is no debtor who is innocent. There's no creditor here who's just a loan shark, and there's no creditor who's serious and patient. And we're just looking for a center to help those debtors who want to deal with the situation. They want to deal with the situation, I'd stress that, and it won't damage the creditors. The creditor isn't just some institutional creditor. There. And now the variant we came up with with Táňa Mala. It solves the fact that it removes the 30% barrier and clearly states that when the debtor makes every effort to read the amendment and what can be reasonably demanded of him during the course of the five years, it is not surprising. This means that if there are any negative changes in the course of five years, the insolvency administrator has an obligation to inform the insolvency court. It's just not like everybody's gonna be surprised out of the blue after five years. In such a case, he is in debt, even if he does not reach 30 percent. If it reaches 30 per cent or more, it is automatically indebted at that point. That's where we point out that it's at least 30 percent. Today, if you look, a quarter of the debtors will pay 100 percent. Let's just not act like we're getting close to some kind of zero disguise here. We just want to let these people into the system - [[Time.]] Well, I'm gonna turn myself in again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u35	So, as the next one, with a point of fact, and the last one so far, Mr Farský. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u36	Thank you for the floor. Copy that. I read the proposal. It is actually stated that if they pay more than 30 percent, no one will judge anything else. If they fail to pay 30 per cent, the court shall assess. In recent months, I have devoted myself to the fact that there are some 300,000 illegal executions in the Czech Republic that are still being enforced. I have been communicating with individual judges and I must say that there are various decision-making practices in various courts around the Czech Republic. I am not questioning the authority of the courts, and I think that, as one of the parts that is therefore not quite right, but at the same time that does not mean that this is an unfair decision-making. But the uncertainty will be there. Because if this person doesn't fulfil his obligations, then he's going to lose that possibility, over the course of the five years, based on the insolvency administrator's report, the court is supposed to just cancel it. And not that the fifth year after the supervision of the insolvency administrator takes place for five years, the insolvency administrator will pay some amounts to the maximum extent possible and will be under strict supervision, so after the five years when it fails to meet 30% or more, it will be exposed to the uncertainty. And the uncertainty is because the decision isn't guaranteed to have that option canceled in the finals, and it's gonna be back to square one, like he didn't do anything for five years. I'm afraid that the institute - and when I put myself in the position of debtor, I would have trouble entering it, because I would consider whether it's worth a five-year curse at all, if after five years I still don't know if I'm gonna get into debt or not, because it's gonna be for the judge to judge if I've made enough effort.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u37	Time. So, now I have three applications for factual notes. So I am the first to call on Mrs Taťána malý, Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared and then Mr Jiří Bláha will be prepared. Now, Madame, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I would just like to react briefly to the contribution made by my colleague Farský. Of course, today, even today, the debt relief can be terminated in the course of the debtor's failure to fulfil his obligations. It means, to raise some concerns here about the fact that the debtors, if they do the right thing for five years, they're going to work what the forces are going to do, they're not going to do 30 percent, and the court is going to say, "I'm sorry, I just don't like you, but you didn't," so this really isn't appropriate. I'm sure it's not, and it won't be. In the course of the insolvency proceedings, the debtor is already communicating with the court, communicating with the administrator, the administrator reports regularly on the debtor's debt execution. And I don't think there's really any need to worry about the fact that if the debtor does what he's supposed to do for five years, he won't be allowed to finish the debt. So I think these are odd concerns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u39	That was Mrs. Malá. I will now ask Mr Patrik Nacher to speak and Mr Bláha will prepare himself. So, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u40	Well, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel like we don't understand the basic philosophy here at all. The basic philosophy of this proposal is to solve the current problem at the same time as not to harm other participants, or creditors, or debtors. If it's too much, if I say it half-patically, too soft in favour of debtors, then how do those debtors who have to go through 30 percent today? If you look at those who process the insolvency reports today, the number of ideas is falling. It's dropping because everyone's waiting to see what comes out of this Chamber of Deputies. [[18.00 hours]] The principle was that we want to let people who don't get there today, because they won't meet the 30% threshold, even though they may have increased their income throughout their lives, so they would have paid 30 percent. Or even if they would have paid 20 per cent as a result, but even 20 per cent is good: for them, they have the restart, even for the creditor, that they have at least the 20 per cent. And they're gonna get out of that gray zone. But that does not mean that everyone is going to be there in this regime, because here, Mr Farský, through Mr President, we are merely such intermediaries between the debtor and the creditor. And that cannot be balanced only on one side. Then go explain it to those creditors who also write to us how they're gonna get back to it. And I'm adding how those debtors who are paying it back today or who are going through the debt thing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u41	That was Mr Nacher, and now Mr Bláha, Mr Farskýý and then Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared, still factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u42	Colleagues, I just want you to realize what's going on here. It sounds here: I've been dealing with the issue of executions, insolvencys for three months now. It's a terrible discovery that we actually decide on people after three months of research, but the issue is so hugely complex that it really can't be said after three months of research as it really is. I've been practicing insolvency for ten years since I come into contact with them every day. It's our beautiful anniversary this year. This year it's been ten years, and I've been meeting for ten years that everyone who's in this system has only learned to milk it. And today, we can't blame debtors for not wanting to be held back. If I'm sure I'll make 12 or 16 grand, I won't be interested in debting. We have to go the other way around. We have to say, you're going to pay $10,000, and we don't care how much you earn. But that's what it takes for us to go into the overall change, the system, this law. I believe we're going to do this. Let's move on, let's approve as simple a change as possible, so that we can put them into practice at all, and let's go into a systemic change of the entire enforcement law to make people pay off, and let's do it in debt to everyone who wants to debt out, and believe that there will be a majority of them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u43	Thank you, and now Mr Farský, with de facto action, and then Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u44	Thank you so much for the notes, and I'm glad we're getting to the coincidence, the solution. It was quite clear here that if something was right for five years and five years of the insolvency administrator supplied a report that it works as it should, the fifth year will not be abolished by the court. So if someone's been in a debt situation for five years, in that misery, the court doesn't even judge it, when we say that automatically, whoever survives it for five years, they're gonna be in debt. And that's the essence of my proposal: when five years of insolvency administrators say everything's okay there's no need to re-evaluate the system after five years and evaluate whether it was okay. That's the uncertainty that bothers me there. And let's look away from the academic position that we might be holding here, and we're looking at it with a maybe too much perspective, but that's the situation of a person who decides whether five years will live off the minimum, sell out his property, and in the end it can happen that the decision will be negative and he will be back at the very beginning, only five years will experience the fact in a difficult situation. To make this law work, I think it's essential that at that end, at that five-year period, if five years is okay, if the insolvency administrators confirm it, there's no need for a court to decide on them again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u45	That was Mr. Farský. The final factual point so far, Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u46	Thank you for the floor. I think my colleague Farský proposal is completely rational. It really doesn't make sense that after five years of ongoing debt relief, the court can say that the debt relief doesn't take place. And the other thing. Responses to a colleague Nacher about the liability and the position of the creditor and the debtor. Unfortunately, at this point, the entire company is subsidising creditors. Today, the most effective is, in terms of short-term loans, when the debtor is unable to repay, and I think it is absolutely necessary, and the proposal is also intended to direct part of the responsibility for lending money lightly, bearing creditors to you, and it cannot be possible for all the costs of enforcement to be borne by the State and all the proceeds of this to be borne by creditors. And we're talking about the poverty business, the creditors who lend to them in order not to be repaid properly. Unfortunately, this has started in the Czech Republic as a business that needs to be dealt with, and that is why we have this law here. Of course, the second thing is creditors who may not have been paid the invoices, but that's a completely different case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u47	Thank you. [[He's speaking to MP Chvojek.]] Now I have you registered, but if it wasn't factual, Mr Nacher skipped you with the facts, but if you take it, factually, I'll let you go. Mr. Ambassador Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u48	Thank you for the floor. I'm just a reporter, though it's a point of fact, my friends, maybe I'm appealing now to the two that was before me, Farský, Ferjenčík. If we don't finish this by 7:00 today, we're not gonna finish the second reading this week, it's gonna be moved to those two weeks in October. It's gonna be a big problem for this bill to be effective from January 1st next year. So, folks, if we're gonna exhaust ourselves with factual remarks and debates about what happened on the committee, we're not gonna finish it today. We have until 7:00. There's such a political club deal, we're not gonna extend it. So I'm appealing to you, for example, to some political parties or some friends who enforce this law, and I'm one of them, they didn't say that someone was blocking it or that someone didn't want it, because that's what it looks like so far. And so far, unfortunately, so are those who support the law. So please, let's ease up and try to talk less so that the law goes from second reading to guarantee committee and then three weeks to third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u49	That was Mr Chvojka's rapporteur. Now three factual points - Mr Bláha and Mr Nacher will be prepared and Mr Benda will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u50	Colleagues, colleagues, but it cannot be kept silent. If we keep quiet, those people on the other side are gonna think we're actually making decisions about them without them. This means that the first thing: We certainly cannot take what Mr Farskýý here says through the President as a dogma or simply that this is how it is. Just these people today, because they can't touch the chance to make money, they're going to go into the gray zone as soon as insolvency falls on them. And believe me, on the advice of those insolvency judges who tell them, hey, you have to pay 30% here, and that's enough to pay you that kind of salary. So I'm gonna change the city in a fictional way, but worst of all, I'm gonna rent a social apartment with the support of the state, so we're all gonna pay it again. And the way it's set, it won't work otherwise. So people have learned to do it because they have nothing left to do. And really, if we don't talk about it and we don't name who's most burdened by it, it's currently the most burdening businessman who has to carry out the entire agenda for insolvency or bail-out judges or trustees, but with financial guarantees at his firm, and that's what it takes - 23 execution cases now I have in my firm, 21 second. I'm losing one right now because the insolvency fell on him, so he quit immediately. That's the reality. She's completely different than you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u51	Thank you. I therefore now call on Mr Patrik Nacher to prepare Mr Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u52	I would also follow up on my colleague Chvojka to speed things up so that we can really help these people, but sometimes it is not possible to react to things that will then live their lives in public space. I must respond to my colleague Ferjenčík through you. And it's the black and white world again. Just as every debtor is not irresponsible, so not every creditor is a loan shark. It's not like that. If we kick this place together and punish all the creditors for doing this on their own, that's wrong. If you had read the other amendments, you would have found that if the accessories... if the accessories of the debt were higher than the principal, the order of satisfaction of the claim would have been reversed. This accessory becomes a subordinated claim. So that's the answer to all loan sharks. And by doing so, we distinguish loan sharks from creditors. We need to look at the amendments comprehensively, not just ours, what we have with Táňa Mala, and then in that complex it will help debtors, and I will supply the responsible, and it will not harm creditors, and I will add serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u53	That was Mr Nacher. Now, Mr Benda, and this is the last point in fact so far. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u54	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am trying not to abuse factual remarks, but I really need to respond to Mr Chvojka, who is here telling us how we should approve this by the end of the year so that it can apply from 1 January. I would just like to point out that the proposed effectiveness is the first day of the fourth calendar month following its publication. It's pretty obvious that by January 1st, you'd have to have it here in March. So let's not fool around again. If it's going to be at this meeting, it's just a political social democracy program that says it's going to debt people, and it's going to be before the elections, or it doesn't matter if it's going to be in October or November.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u55	We will return to the general debate, respectively. we are in a general debate, but we are in standard applications. Mr Lukáš Kolářík, I will ask you to speak, and Mr Benda will be prepared again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u56	Hello, thank you for the floor, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, let me introduce you to the Pirates' club's position on this House press. We welcome this amendment, we are happy for it, because, as has already been said, there are a lot of people in the Czech Republic, and those people, today's settings, which are there, at least 30% of the commitments paid, cause a lot of people not to reach it and are in such a situation that the state has no solution for them. I don't think it's good that there should always be a second chance. Even if I make some mistake about being careless, or I forget to pay for something on purpose, I think in time you'll realize it and you really should get a second chance. We welcome that it is no longer about whether or not this law, but rather parametric changes, just how to let them go or not to let them go. One more thing to remember is that society subsidizes those people who are in debt traps in some way, on the income side, when the state is losing the tax that these people would pay from normal legal work, and on the spending side, when we subsidize them in some way in doses, we subsidize health because they are more susceptible to disease, there is some crime prevention, sometimes even prison costs, because these people really might end up in prison. We Pirates have a little problem with Patrik Nacher's amendment because we really think it will cause people not to want to use it because they really won't know what will happen in those five years. It was said here that if he pays properly, if he doesn't, he'll cancel. I also see no reason why the court should ultimately judge if, in fact, if the person had not properly executed and paid the debts as it should, it would have been abolished during insolvency proceedings. I see a problem in this, too. I'm glad that the threshold for entry into insolvency will be reduced, because it's really a big problem today that people can't reach it and basically have it for life, this problem of theirs. I was comparing it the other day to the fact that if I made any trouble, I would drink, I would drive, I would drive, I would run into some young family, I would kill some of it, I would, of course, get a prison sentence, but when I walk out of that prison, I'm basically clean. Whereas this punishment is life imprisonment. There simply doesn't have a solution for people who are indebted and there's no potential to pay 30 percent at the moment. We welcome the ease of letting those people in and really debting the majority, because there are a lot of overdrafts and they are no longer supposed to be in execution proceedings, but they are supposed to be in the second system, and that is insolvency. For the pirát, I must say that we welcome this, that the threshold for entry will be lowered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u57	Thank you. And now I will ask for Mr Marek Benda's speech and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u58	Dear Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, everyone is begging me to be as brief as possible. I understand it's Wednesday, the last day of the House. Still, I can't forgive myself for one comment, especially to my honored colleague Patrik Nacher. The level of hypocrisy shown to us here by the ANO movement, which, on the one hand... Pelican runs with the idea, your former minister, the great guru, with the idea of how to debt everyone, as it is absolutely necessary to say zero, because many people here are criminals and cheaters who have given them high interest loans that they urgently needed, indebted so that they cannot get out of their debt trap, and at the same time your great prime minister, the political guru, appoints first the Prague candidates for the man who invested in companies that worked on high interest loans. And this man will provide the YES movement with a $3 million election gift. What do you think the $3 million is coming from? Where'd they come from instead of picking off some poor creditors on high interest rates like that? In this regard, I think it would really be worth keeping quiet or thinking more about who you're putting on your candidates and who you're not putting on those candidates. I really find this extremely controversial. That's what I was going to say politically. I will try to be very brief, but I would just like to comment on one proposal that will be presented by my colleague Blažek in a detailed debate, and that is the proposal in which we recommend it, and I think it is very reasonable to say that this beneficiary, where it is possible to go below 30% of the debt payment, really only applies to the old debts. To say yes, there were situations where small debts caused by legal recovery to create debts much larger, there was a situation where a number of non-banking and banking entities were not sufficiently regulated, lent irresponsiblely and got people into -- of course, those people who borrowed it were always able to do so to be clear. She was putting these people in difficult situations. But we have adopted some new law on consumer credit, we have adopted an obligation to review institutions, even with the possibility that if over-debting is too much, if the proportion is too clear, it is possible to completely terminate the loan. And then it would be right to say yes, we're dealing with some past situation in which we're able to admit that we're going below 30%. For the future, we say: it is not possible to borrow, please, dear citizens, dear debtors, it is not possible to borrow in a way that you hope to pay a maximum of 15, 10, 20 % of this. That's a very bad signal. [[18.20 hours]] In this regard, I think we should say yes, if we want to deal with something from the past, so let's admit that with the court's permission, and here I think the court's permission, and even the final judgment is very correct, because the judge alone sees a specific case. And he sees whether this guy was borrowing $2 million for gambling, or if he was really in some difficult life situation, or if he got into some kind of trap, less of his own guilt. That's where I think the judge is right. But in the future, we should say: a minimum of 30% even in this strict five-year regime, we consider it necessary. People shouldn't be in debt. Just like you're not supposed to be indebted to the state. But that too in this House seems to be understood only by a minority. But people shouldn't be in debt beyond their circumstances. And it would be right for us to send this signal to the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u59	Thank you. And now I have been asked by Mrs Věra Kovářová, who has a technical communication for us regarding yesterday's vote. So I'd like to give the lady, given that we're gonna be done on schedule by 7:00, so I'm gonna give you some room to express yourself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u60	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to state for the record that I voted against the 195 vote, and I have a pro on the high. So I am not questioning the vote, just for the tapestry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u61	Thank you. That's enough. And so now we would continue. With a factual remark, I have Mr Bláha's enrollment. So I'll give you my word. It's the only factual point so far. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u62	Dear colleagues, my colleague, I must respond again to my colleague Benda through Mr President. It's all nice what you're saying here, but let's remember who he was when the executions started, the insolvencys. Who put the law into practice. And who's been in the Chamber of Deputies all this time? Which one of us was here? [[Upset.]] I don't think there's a lot of hands up, but Mr. Benda was here. And we entrepreneurs have been screaming for ten years that it can't be like this, that as it's set up, it's wrong, and that it's coming back to us in the form of abuse of large percentage loads, abuse of employees, and today it's shifted, that everyone's really taking advantage of it! And I say it as an entrepreneur, because I see it every day, and I get every day from those entrepreneurs that it's number one, or number one, in the bureaucratic burden of entrepreneurs! [[Very upset.]] So please listen to me! And if you really want to help those entrepreneurs, let's make it simple. The judge will decide the amount, the judge will determine it, the fixed amount will be fixed, the entrepreneur will have nothing to do with it, and the debtor in question will be able to earn a hundred thousand! Make him earn it! Because we all have needs. And in terms of debt, we'll do it. But the moment I get nothing left on my payroll, what am I gonna do? I'm gonna run off to the gray economy. It's logical, it's normal. And I don't blame these people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u63	Thank you. And now Mr Marek Benda will respond to the facts. So, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u64	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am so sorry, but I have to respond here. Yesterday's news currently.cz, execution in the Czech Republic, dates, business with poverty, second pillar, introduction of private executioners and adoption of execution orders, and I did not write that. That's the official report. Members' bill headed by Pavel Němec from 2001. There were only three MPs against it, all from ODS. Marek Benda, one of the opposers, then prophesied that a number of paragraphs were exploitable and the law would lead to great predilection of the system. So just so that when I'm attacking someone, when I'm calling someone "it's your fault," we'll be a little careful about this. And a second comment on what Mr. Bláha here tells us, who always understands everything much better than the rest of this House. What you're talking about is a partial execution where, of course, the problem is that every bailiff is pulling down some amount. Not an insolvency where there's an insolvency administrator who collects the money from that account and then distributes it to the individual creditors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u65	So, that was Mr. Benda. And now, in the general debate, I will ask for a speech by Mrs Kateřina Valachová. And Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u66	Mr President, colleagues, fellow Members, honourable Government. I would like to thank my colleagues from the Constitutional Legal Committee for supporting amendments which I will not report to, as they have already been adopted by the Constitutional Legal Committee, and this is an accelerated debt relief of seniors and seniors, as well as an improvement in the recovery of maintenance amounts due immediately for the remuneration of the insolvency administrator in the context of debt relief. I will only update one single amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate and which aims, say, to improve Patrik Nacher's and Taťána's amendment to the Malá in terms of meeting the debt-debt conditions after five years. We all agree on this, and this is what I have heard from colleagues from the ANO and from the CSSD movement, that after five years, we simply imagine that if five years of the debtor cuts Latin, he has the conditions that are imposed on him, so he has, if he really sought to fulfill his debts according to his options, so not that he may, but will be indebted. That is the point of a minor amendment to my amendment, and I will try to obtain a majority for it in both the Constitutional Committee and the House plenary at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u67	That was Mrs Kateřina Valachová. So now I'm going to ask Mr. Patrik Nacher's speech. And Mrs Jana Levová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, for the last time today. It's kind of a sad look at this half-empty House when we're discussing such an important matter. However, basically, I'm over those factual already more or less everything, said everything. All the amendments that were tabled there together with Taťána Mala, some with Marek Výborný, some I had myself, are part of the big amendment approved by the Constitutional Legal Committee, which has become the basis. Explaining the five years, and let's say the hidden 30 percent is meaningless. Simplifying the insolvency proposal, which is supposed to unplug it so that the proposal is not just de jure, but then de facto, those people will wait a year two before someone writes it for them, is also essential. By changing the order of satisfaction of the claims, I replied to my colleague Mikuláš Ferjenčík. That, in turn, there is another part to improve the position of creditors in having instead of 30 days 60 days to register their claims. And the fact that it isn't a total zero is my amendment to the fact that if the debtor has only, only to pay the insolvency administrator, which is the system for the system, it will not be allowed in there, because it will not bring anything to the creditor. The result should be where the state, and I take the state and Members as intermediaries, should take into account the interests of creditors and debtors. We can't turn on one of those sides because it would be unfair. And I think that the amendment, the complex one, as approved by the Constitutional Legal Committee, is being addressed in the complex, in my opinion. It's not just the one critical proposal that Taťána Mala and I have, where the 7.0 is being cut, and it stays 5.30 and 50 at the moment. So I'm gonna ask for your support, and I'm gonna look forward to a regular discussion at third reading. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u69	There. And now I will ask for a performance by Mrs Jana Levová. It is the last one entered into the general debate. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u70	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues and colleagues. Because, in a detailed debate, I will sign up to my Amendment No. 866 to print 71, so I'd like you to meet him now. My amendment to amend the Government proposal amending Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and its solutions, as amended, this is to print 71, concerns the possibility for the debtor to be exempted from payment of his debts after three years, provided that he pays at least 50 per cent of the claims applied for in these three years. In favour of my amendment, the dates since the 35,000 debt reliefs have been completed, which were evaluated in 2018 in cooperation with the Czech Chamber of Commerce. It follows from this data that the debtor, who is able to pay more than 50 per cent of its liabilities in three years, is able to pay virtually all at five years. Specifically, I am talking about 25 percent of the borrowers who will pay their debts out of 100 percent. [[18.30 hours]] I therefore propose, for the purposes of debt relief, to increase the threshold to which the debtor is left with 1/3 of net income, to three times, i.e. currently to the sum of CZK 28 014 net. In conjunction with the basic non-customable amount, the debtor will thus be motivated to increase his net income up to 34 039,33 or even more if it nourishes other persons. For the reasons set out above, I propose the possibility of withdrawing debt in the three years and, instead, offering debtors an increase in the line over which net wages are collided without restrictions. Thank you in advance for supporting my proposal and thank you for your attention. I'll be joining you in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u71	Thank you. That was Mrs Jana Levová. And I will now look around the hall because it was the last application for a general debate. I don't see anyone else interested. I, therefore, conclude the general debate and ask whether there is an interest in the final words. First, I will ask the petitioner, Mr. Justice Minister Jan Kněžínek, if he is interested. You're interested, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u72	I just thank you very briefly for the debate that took place here. I thank you for the diligence that Members have given to this proposal, and I firmly believe that its negotiations will be successfully completed. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u73	Thank you and the rapporteur is not interested. So I'll read one apology that landed on my desk. So between 18.20 and 23.45 Mr. Vlastimil Válek apologizes for personal reasons. We will therefore now proceed to launch a detailed debate. Let me just remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I have Mr Chvojka as the first priority for the general debate, and Mr Jan Bauer will then be prepared. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have, in essence, presented my amendment in the context of a general debate. This is House Document No 1388. And, as I said, the content of this amendment is technical amendments to the law on courts and judges in connection with the planned introduction of the allocation of insolvency assets in courts by random selection using the so-called allocation generator, so as to rule out the possibility of influencing the allocation of such matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u75	Thank you. I therefore call on Mr Jan Bauer to prepare Mr Dominik Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I hereby wish to subscribe to House document number 1375, which relates to document 71/5, which is the resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee. This is a definition of dishonest purpose. I would like to ask the Minister very much, because I also have a relatively positive response from the relevant ministry that this is a proposal worthy of discussion or support. The proposed amendment draws, inter alia, on the amended Slovak insolvency law, which contains a similar demonstrative list. In addition, the proposed list reflects the settled case-law regarding the assessment of the debtor's dishonest intent. The dishonest intention of the debtor is decisive for the rejection of the application for the authorisation of debt relief and for any subsequent cancellation of the debt waiver, without being sufficiently clear by law what behaviour can at least be regarded as dishonest by example. For this reason, this concept should already be specified in the law by at least a demonstrative enumeration in such a way as to increase the legal certainty of all interested parties and to ensure that such a list can be sufficiently preventive to the debtor. So much for my amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u77	Thank you and next in line I call on Mr Dominik Feri to comment and Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Allow me to sign up for the amendments that you will find as House document 1363, 1380 and 1413 which I have justified in the general debate and, of course, contain written justifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u79	Thank you. I will now ask for Mr Marek Výborný's speech and Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will prepare herself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The vast majority, about 18 or 20 amendments, is contained in this comprehensive amendment to the constitutionally legal committee. I'd like to sign up for those two separates. The first is under number 1367. The House press was justified by me in the general debate. [[document]] The second amendment, Marek Výborný and Petr Sadovský, concerns the already mentioned increase of the limit to 60 per cent. It's House press number 1366. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u81	Thank you. And now, therefore, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová and Mr Marek Benda will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u82	I am signing up for Amendments 1389 and 1390, which I justified in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u83	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Marek Benda and Mrs Jana Levová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u84	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Minister, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to apply to House document 1410, which is my amendment, which is intended to enable the insolvency administrator and the executioner, in compliance with all other conditions necessary for the functioning of the insolvency administrator and in a clearly defined conflict of interest, to become both insolvency administrator and executioner. Furthermore, I would apply to the two amendments that are in the system under the name of Mr Blažek, who asked me to take it from him at the moment, and this is the House press under code 1376, which concerns what I have already justified in the general debate, which means that these mitigated conditions should apply only to old debts. [[document]] In addition, 1377, which deals with the discussion of what conditions may be laid down for the decree on the equipment of insolvency administrators and their offices and in what form the employees must be. Whether it's just the employees or the associates. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u85	Thank you. I will now ask Mrs Jana Levová to speak, and then Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be the last to prepare. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u86	Thank you for the floor. Let me read my written amendment to the House of Press 71/0 as amended by the resolution of the IDA, which is registered as House Document 866. Thank you in advance for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u87	Thank you. And Mrs Kateřina Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u88	I am signing up for the amendment in the system marked by number 1426, which I justified in the general debate on debt relief conditions after five years. And the last time I apply to the amendment to Paragraph 170, it reads: "In Paragraph 170, the unnumbered paragraph is referred to as No 1 and paragraph 2 is inserted after it, including a footnote as follows: The claims referred to in paragraph 1 do not arise during insolvency proceedings. If the insolvency proceedings are annulled, the claims referred to in paragraph 1 shall be deemed to have been incurred during the insolvency proceedings. 1 maximum up to the amount of interest on late payment provided for by a government regulation under the Civil Code.' This responds to the court's consistent practice in relation to the creation of accessories during insolvency proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u89	That was Mrs Kateřina Valachová. With priority rights, Mr Farský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u90	I am reporting to the detailed debate to sign up for Amendments 1325, 1326 and 1327 as they are in the system. I am merely adjusting the introductory wording in such a way that it will sound as if it is an amendment by Mr Jan Farský to the House of Press 71/0 as amended by 71/5, so that I formally give it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-03-ps2017-019-10-012-005.u91	This was the last application for a detailed debate. So I'll look around the O.R. I am ending the detailed debate with this. I'm asking again about the final words. rapporteur Mr Chvojka, draftsman Minister Kněžínek? They're not interested. At this point, because I do not have any proposals here that should be voted on, this is the end of the second reading of this proposal. So we will now proceed to the next item. It's...
