ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to start the eighth meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, everyone. The meeting was convened pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 70 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on Wednesday 28 February of this year, i.e. on time before the meeting. I beg you all to sign up with your I.D. cards, or tell me who's applying for a replacement card. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Mr Petr Dolínek, I do not see him here, but he is not among the excused, and Mr Vít Rakušan, I do not see him yet either, but he is not among the excused. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I can see Vít Rakušan now. I ask the presidents of the Social Democracy Club: Mr President - I ask President Chvojka if my colleague Dolínek, although he is not excused if he will be present? I propose him as a meeting verifier. [[Ambassador Chvojka from the diaper: I have no idea.]] Well, then I need another proposal. I'm not gonna make another proposal for myself. My colleague Valachová, instead of my colleague Dolínek, is volunteering to do so. All right. We therefore have a proposal on Mrs Kateřina Valachová and on Mr Vít Rakušan. We will decide on the number one vote that I have launched. I'm asking who's the meeting for these two verifiers. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 1, out of 117 for 113, no one against. We have the rapporteur for this meeting. I note that we have designated the verifiers of the eighth meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to Mrs Kateřina Valachová and Mr Vít Rakušan. I say that until the opening of the meeting they asked to apologise for their failure to attend meetings by these Members: Mr Ivan Adamec without giving any reason, Hana Aulická Jírovcová for family reasons, Jan Birke without giving reason, Mr Stanislav Blaha, Milan Brázdil, Jana Černochová, Jaroslav Foldyna, Pavla Golasowská, Miroslav Grebeníček for work or health reasons, Vice-President Jan Hamáček for personal Vymazal, Tomáš Hanzel for personal reasons, Jaroslav Holík for foreign travel reasons, Ivan Jáč for health reasons, Jana Krutáková for work reasons, Mrs Majerová Zahradníková for personal reasons, Kvěra Matušovská for health reasons, Ilona Mauritzová for personal reasons, Ladislav Okleštěk for health reasons, Roman Onderka for work reasons, Zdeněk Podal for health reasons, Antonín Staněk without giving reason, František for health Vácha, Vácháchá, Miloslava Vyslav Vyslaváštáštáštáštáštěk for personalké. Adam Kalous, spare card number 7. Klára Dostálová apologized at today's meeting due to a foreign trip, like Tomáš Hüner, Lubomír Metnar and Robert Pelikán, for working reasons Minister Alena Schillerová - here I see, Mr Hüner is also present, so I am cutting you off. And Minister Karla Šlechtová is on a foreign trip as well as Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. That's an apology for today's meeting. Before we proceed to the agenda for the eighth meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation, I recall that under § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. It is therefore not possible to propose an amendment or addition to the programme and it is also not possible to extend the approved programme. Before the agenda, however, I have two applications with priority rights, namely Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and Vice-President Petr Fiala. I will therefore give the Prime Minister the floor, and then the President of the ODS and Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala, will be prepared. [[A silence.]] I ask for peace, Madame Members, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš, has the floor. Please, Prime Minister. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u2	[[He's starting to talk, but he can't hear.]] It wasn't on. So hello, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. I'm pretty embarrassed, and I don't understand why this extraordinary meeting was called. I might understand if she was convened by parties like Pirates or STAN or KSČM or SPD that were never really in government. But I really don't understand the traditional parties calling this meeting, because as I'm going to talk about it, these parties have shown us in the past how to rule in demise. First of all, I would like to tell everyone, and especially the citizens, we are actually negotiating, and we want a government to be stable to work for people. It's interesting that we had two governments in demise here, Mr Topolánek's government and Mr Rusnok's government, and now the third government is in demise, and it's very interesting how the media names it. I've been trying to track it down. When the Government of Topolánek was in remission or Mr Rusnok, no one ever said they were in remission forever. And people may feel like the government isn't actually doing anything in demise. Demi is the French half that we're about half the government. It's not true. We're actually working. And I'm also surprised that actually the ODS, which is probably the initial of this meeting... On the one hand, President Fiala commended me, commended us for foreign policy, and I am glad that we will work together. The President wrote me a letter saying that we are doing much better than that government before and that we are active and we are fighting for our interests in Brussels. And I am glad that we have the same view of this, and that is why I invited all the party leaders and the movement to 15 March to coordinate our foreign policy together within the European Union. And Mr Benešík also knows that I am willing to go to the EU Committee and that I am going to agree with the strategy with which I am going to the European Council. So I don't understand why we can't work together on other things for the benefit of the people of this country. Line construction... Now there were demonstrations in Prague, on Monday I received a petition from 15,000 people on D49, where for ten years it was blocked by a hamster or those organizations that blocked it. And why don't people decompose for the fact that we can't finish the bypass? Well, it's so weird. [[9.10 hours]] So I'd like to tell our citizens that the government in the demise that the media keeps repeating, and they didn't say that before, so of course they have a special meter on us, so they're working. He's working. Our government is law-abiding. And we, the laws, we don't take it politically. We're not saying that everything the opposition has suggested is wrong. We are actually discussing this objectively as a government. Objectively, even in our opinion. And we're okay with someone proposing a law that may not have attacked us, and that we're gonna join. We supported the Pirates with the powers of the SAO or now the quasi-linium construction law. It actually came from the House, we all have the same opinion that we need to speed up negotiations, or we need to build, we need to make this preliminary holding so that we can buy and build. So the government in resignation, please, is legitimate, completely legitimate with the Constitution and legal. And, according to the Constitution, it is not limited to the extent of its powers, but it has its full legitimacy. And, of course, we don't want to rule in demise. Even if we work, if we gain trust, just like we do today. I don't see any difference. Yes, we want to gain the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies, but we are very much negotiating about it. Yesterday there were some voices in the media that we're not actually negotiating, but our expert teams are working, and I don't know, we're probably gonna be doing a press conference after every expert meeting, but we're really trying. Well, we negotiate with those who want to negotiate. And we clearly said something after the election. The House could have been created in another way, but unfortunately the parties that criticize us today didn't want to negotiate with us. And we're negotiating with the KSČM, the SPD, we're negotiating with the ČSSD about the program now, and that means we're trying, and it's not true that we don't try and hang out and that we actually want to rule without trust. Definitely not. We want to rule with confidence. As for the legitimacy of the government in demise, we have here the decision of the Constitutional Court of 9 February 2010, there was a case under the Government of Topolánkův, when the decree of the Ministry of Health was abolished, to lack the legitimacy of the Ministry of Law at a time when it rules without trust. The Constitutional Court has admitted that, contrary to the government with full confidence, the government's legitimacy and political authority is in a different position in demise, which necessarily leads to the need for a restrictive and strict view of the power of such a government and to issue regulations and other acts of government, especially if they bear substantial and irreversible consequences. But please, we do not make fundamental and irreversible consequences. We don't privatize anything. So let's remember Mirek Topolánek's government in a demise that sold Aero Vodochody for three billion. We're not selling anything. And try to remember how the government in demise, Minister of Finance Vlastimil Tlustý forgave debts, arbitrage to Nomura, for a hundred billion. The Nomura who took our beer, Plzeňský Prazdroj, and for a little bit, she took it out. Well, that was a demise. And we're not doing anything. So personnel changes. I forgot, in the demise of the government Topolánek wanted to sell 16 percent of ČEZ and only thanks to the opposition of ČSSD it was prevented, and only then, when she had confidence, they basically did so. So it was said here that we're doing some cleaning. But I don't know who's talking about what purges. Firstly, the traditions of traditional political parties are political cleansing. Political. And we didn't do any political cleansing. As part of the systemization of service and jobs, we have abolished the so-called political deputy. There were 31 of them, and we reduced the number to 20. I would like to remind my colleagues or the public how the coalition government was created in 2014. As a movement, we didn't want any deputys to trade as tradition was. We didn't want it because we don't have a bunch of people waiting for some kind of function. But the coalition forced us to do it, and we actually got these deputy officers, and that's how it came to be. And we were against it. And that was before the Civil Service Act, which was to be adopted by our country in 2004. And in 2014, when our coalition government came in, we were actually threatened not to get money from European funds, so we did it in a hurry. So it didn't go so well, we were there, too, and it was our fault. Only practice shows that this is really a problem. But what I'm saying is, what did we do? So we've canceled 11 political deputy seats. There were purely politicians. Yes? And we've canceled the Deputys for 14 seats on 14. Because I don't understand why they had 11 deputies at the MIT. So, overall, about 23 jobs and within the Labour Code, of course, when I had a lot of people at the Office of the Government who came there for some reason of former coalition cooperation, well, I don't need so many secretariats there. So the meeting where we're going to be attacked again and there's going to be some demagogy again, which I'm so sorry, is really, really useless. I would actually read here - it's called Long Knife Night started. Purges at ministries. Only in the first week, 20 deputy officers had to leave. But that was under the ODS. Twenty Deputys have fallen victim to purgatory in the ministries since the ODS began. Social Democrats say that if the government changes in two months, they will re-establish and clean up the newly deployed. That's great! So that's how it works! The ODS would come, clean up, and then the CSSD would say that when they came, they would clean up again. But we don't do it this way. We're not taking this politically. We approach this by the quality of the people! And if Minister Pelikán married Mr. Tejc, former member of the ČSSD, that's the proof. My advisor is Cyril Svoboda of KDU-ČSL. There's no one from the YES movement in my advisors. I kept the Secretary of State for the EU Mr Chmelař for the ČSSD. And what would happen if the ODS came in? Well, then, of course, she'd clean it up. And we don't do that. Then don't talk about purges. The personal changes I can get to were also done on the basis of our experience. I was the Minister of Finance, and I have a lot of experience with some of the people who were in the state administration. So the night of the long knives will not be, the civil democrats claimed before joining the ministry's office in an innuendo to the likeness that Prime Minister Mirek Topolánek once laid. Six days was enough, and 20 people, mostly Social Democrats, are already out of the Deputys' seats. And other changes are due. Perhaps the greatest exchange has been experienced by the Ministry of Education and Home Affairs. The chief of the first Miroslava Kopicová called off all four former Deputys and so far appointed only one. [[9.20 hours]] Home Secretary Ivan Langer made a similar move. First of the seven Deputys, whom he inherited from František Bublan, he withdrew the six - out of the seven six - and at the same time added only two seats. He's canceled the remaining functions. Langer explains this by simplifying and clarifying the structure. Some of the Deputys, therefore, learned quite curiously after the onset of the ODS, that they had to end their appeal. For example, the new minister, Jiří Šedivý, did not have any fun with the non-scorer Bělčík from the Ministry of Defence, who was close to the head of ČSSD Paroubek. Yet he called him off only a few hours after taking up his duties and the Bělčík he was on vacation in Tunisia. And so on. So I can read it here for hours. So if somebody was cleaning up in demise, it was really ODS. And I don't understand, is that what you want to talk about? In about two and a half months, Langer was able to change the Ministry's leadership. And you know how he messed with the Home Secretary's Inspection? So-called now GIBS, which is the ODS product? Well, he came, I mean, Friday, and he called off the whole board. Immediately. They sealed the vaults, offices, computers, and exit! It's political cleansing. We don't do that. And if we're gonna talk about GIBS tonight, first, read the material from the Attorney General's Office in Olomouc. And I think you'll be quiet about GIBS after that. It's a scandal that's in there. And Mr. Langer is actually... What's he saying? We came to the Home Office in an absolutely hostile environment. We came prepared, we knew what to do. And we did it! For example, Langer described his appointment at the ODS weekend Congress, where he defended the role of Vice-President of the Party. So they quickly prepared, stopped preparations for the establishment of an anti-terrorist center, called off the head of intelligence and abolished the financial police, of course, which was supposed to fight corruption. She's done, too. I really don't know why we're having this conversation today. Because we don't really do things like that. And that government of ours in demise, as the journalists keep repeating - and then they didn't repeat it - should be pleinmisi, because the dem is half and the plein is full. So we're doing my best. We're working hard. We translate pension increases, we talk about discounts on fares for pensioners and students, we go to regions where we want to help, we prepare an investment fund. And I don't know what's wrong with that? At the same time, we are trying to negotiate quickly with the one who wants to negotiate. We also dealt with STAN... And I don't understand why, because, on the one hand, the information from the negotiations has been abused. And it's a lie that I would be talking about doing some list of ČSSD members at the negotiation. Such nonsense. How would we do that, please? I said we were keeping track of how many people came to the various departments before the state administration. Yes. So I'm very sorry, and I'm sorry someone's coming and treating us like we're being treated like shit. So who did we swap anyway? pan Kučera of CzechInvest. I have a lot of experience with Mr. Kučera. I've never been so ashamed of myself in my life as I was at a meeting with General Electric. We're not in a situation where we give someone 2.5 billion. without asking what it's worth. To get the Prime Minister to cut the tape, we opened, over. Yes, I was negotiating as Treasury Secretary, and I wanted to know what General Electric would do here. And the project works great. And it was my fault that I forced them to commit to opening a new aircraft engine plant where they would employ 500 people, from which we would be charged - personal income tax, social, health. We're not in a position to be down here on our knees right now, and we don't even need to give tax incentives anymore. There's a huge labour struggle here, and of course our companies have a problem. Then why would we give tax incentives? Yes, if it's high technology, why not? Well, Mr. Kučera, how did he end up? Well, because the employees threatened to mutiny and destabilize. So the minister had to deal with it. And now we're doing an open tender and 22 people volunteered. And I had a similar experience with Mr. Kučera in negotiating with the BMW. BMW wants to invest in the Karlovy Vary Region. They want an incentive, but we have to negotiate. We have to -- it would be great if the BMW had opened up this race for us, but why couldn't we negotiate? Let's go to health care now. I will show you here - this is a study of the European Commission - Study on corruption in the healthcare sector. This is a study on corruption across the European Union on health, October 2013. And what does this study say? This study says corruption in our health care system. So between 2006 and 2010, Mr Šnajdr was first Deputy Prime Minister - the second highest position after the Minister - of three different health ministers and then became a Member in 2010. During his work at the Ministry, Šnajdr was referred to as Richelieu of Czech Health. It is, it was a grey eminence, a leading personality and a driving force of Czech health care. During his operation under the ODS government led by Mirek Topolánek between 2006 and 2009, Šnajdr was not only politically appointed Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Health, but also chairman of the Board of Directors of the State Insurance Corporation VZP. By gaining control over both the Ministry and as a result of the biggest insurer, Marek Šnajdr became in a position in which he controlled the functioning of the entire Czech health system! In 2007 Petr Bendl was the captain of the Central Bohemia Region. During his term of office several hospitals in the region were privatized, many of them anonymous owners, including especially hospitals in Hořovice. The hospital was small, poorly controlled, near the big city, but also a large sloping area. The head of the hospital and the chief of staff were thrilled to prevent its closure. This case is an example of how politics is intertwined with corruption and private inalienable interests. Despite endless accusations and several litigations, the Šnajdr has never been convicted of corruption or misconduct by any court of the Czech Republic. So that is what it says in the administration of the European Commission. The European Union is writing it to us. And Mr. Topolánek protected Mr. Šnajdr. And it came to such an extent that he was interfering with a police investigation and appointed a state's attorney who provided Šnajdr with protection from judicial authority. Well, that's a great read, that. So you're asking why we made changes in some hospitals? Well, here's your answer. So I'd really like you to read it. And I think it's common knowledge. So I really don't understand the invectives. [[9.30 hours]] Then I'd like to read you a really great story here, and that's what the government was doing in Mr. Topolánek's demise. For example, a settlement with Nomura. At the end of November 2006, Minister of Finance of the Government of Topolánkův signed a settlement with Nomura. It was a transaction in which tens of billions were materially involved, de facto up to 100 billion, which is the amount by which the government reduced its actions against Nomura. And that Nomura, it was an investment bank in Japan that de facto took over the IPB and pulled out our Pilsner Prazdroj, which we lost and which may be worth 100 billion today. Minister of Finance - now listen carefully - Vlastimil Tlustý sent a prosecutor and judge to stop prosecution of the management of the Nomura and the management of the IPB. The contract was secret for five years. In my opinion, this was the biggest criminal act of the government after 1989. The deal was prepared by Radek Šnábl, a convicted thief here according to the paper, employed by Kalousek, who was Minister of Finance. Even the Ministry of Finance wants to ask, that's what it says in Novinky 30. 11. 2006. Representatives of Nomura flew to Prague. They met with the Finance Minister Tlustý, who then announced the signing of the reconciliation agreement. Nomura will waive all claims and the state will stop the proceedings against Nomura. The Treasury also wants to ask President Klaus to pardon the prosecuted Nomura managers. There's no other legal way to cancel her investigation, according to Tlustý. This is unbelievable. It is unbelievable that the government in resignation is proposing to grant the president a pardon in criminal proceedings that we have lost the Pilsen Prazdroj. It's the past of the government in demise. So I really don't understand why we're being criticized. What are we criticized for? Again, they're not political cleansing. And our problem today, of course, is the Civil Service Act. We have this state service bill, and I'm afraid I'm applying for it too. We may have underestimated it and now we see it in practice that the Secretary of State is almost more or as much as the Minister or Deputy Minister of the Interior. Mr Postránecký is almost, almost more than the government. Because we have the system. The state administration is totally closed, they're not good people. We need to open it, and we need to change the Civil Service Act. Because there are preserved people who are still circulating there, and of course it's a big problem. When the minister comes in and wants to replace a deputy after some experience, it's an insurmountable problem. So we are now discussing the proposal that we discussed in the government in Brussels. Today, it is Minister Dostálová who is there, and I hope that everyone will support us because we need good governance. Quality. And another institution, this is the český Post, with which I have a wealth of experience as Minister of Finance. When I took the liberty of arguing about subsidies for Czech mail regarding IT orders, the members of the Supervisory Board got the material in the way that their name was written across the whole page. And when they wanted to, and I wanted me to get that information, they were instructed to be prosecuted. So I couldn't actually get any information from the post office. The mail's in bad shape. When the mailgirls who take 14 grand come to me and people justifiably call them that packages and shipments are late, and drivers take 19 grand, it's really a scandal. And now I've been petitioned by about 15,000 employees who apply to me, and we need the post office to be okay to run management transparently so that it doesn't change the way someone likes it, on the basis of depreciation and various accounting operations, so that the mail buys transparently. I don't even know if they're actually related to the contract register, if they're publishing it. And there will be a tender, and I hope at least 50 people will sign up. And I don't see anything wrong with it. And that's experience, and we've made these personnel changes based on our experience of sitting in the government. So all I'm saying is that we're doing these personnel changes on the basis of managerial failure or violation of the law and, of course, after the audits, we'll be happy to let you know the results. So we really have a clear conscience, we don't clean up, we don't clean up politically, we behave with the care of a proper economy. And again, I'm very sorry to have to call a meeting with this program, because we don't have any butter on our heads, unlike some of them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u3	I thank Mr Andrej Babiš, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, for his speech. I remind you that we are still not in the debate, so those who have priority rights have the right to speak, and I will now add them up. President Petr Fiala is ready, he was also second in the debate. Excuse me, Mr President, one more thing. I have apologies here. From 10:30, Mr Václav Klaus apologizes to the end for reasons of work, Mr Jiří Mihola, from 9 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Benešík, to the end of the day, and Minister Jaroslava Němcová, who is enrolled in the debate, and I hope that there will be a number for her before she leaves. Now Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Petr Fiala, Minister Martin Stropnický will prepare himself. Miroslav Kalousek, Pavel Bělobrádek, Jan Chvojka, Ivan Bartoš and Jaroslava Němcová are also registered. I see another application. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u4	Thank you. Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the Prime Minister, who spoke here first, asked some questions, such as why we are here today to discuss why this extraordinary meeting has been convened. I'd be happy to answer his questions. It is a little unusual for him to speak first and not for me as a plaintiff's representative, but of course I respect that the point has not yet been properly approved, and I just hope that you will finally give your consent to such approval. And as I'm saying, I'd be happy to explain why we initiated this meeting. Not just the ODS, but six political parties represented in this House. What we want to ask and what we want to call the government to do in demise. The Prime Minister mentioned my letter, which I sent him, in which, here, I would correct his interpretation a little, I did not directly commend him for his foreign policy, but I only appreciated his activities and efforts. And I still hope that this will lead to something and that I will be able to appreciate the results once. And I have done this completely consciously and intentionally, and I am prepared to work here with other political parties to ensure that the Czech Republic is represented abroad sufficiently so that we can promote our interests there. But ladies and gentlemen, and I want to underline that a few times, that's a huge difference. We must promote the interests of the Czech Republic and its citizens abroad at all times, we must do this effectively and we can only do this if we are united in a certain way in the internal political debate. If we're not, we're not gonna push for anything. Unfortunately, unfortunately, the inability to distinguish between foreign and internal policy is a long-term problem of Czech foreign policy. And that's why we're not successful. [[9.40 hours]] And I do not intend to continue this tendency. I am concerned about the interests of our country and its enforcement abroad, and I will not bear in mind that we have an x-month government that has no confidence here, and we are unable to act as the Czech Republic on key issues abroad when we are talking about reforms of the European Union when we are talking about substantial changes in the European Union. Well, I'd be really crazy, and my party would be irresponsible if we weren't ready to work together in a situation like this. And that's what we are! But once again, foreign policy is something completely different from internal policy issues, and it must not be mixed together. This is about the state and its interest, and it is the duty of every responsible politician to participate in something. From this point of view, I really welcome the fact that my initiative - and I admit it, much faster than in the past, Prime Minister Sobotka - Mr Babiš accepted the Prime Minister's resignation and that we will meet, representatives of the main political parties, parliamentary political parties, and we will try to agree on some Czech national position. But please, that has nothing to do with what we're discussing today. This has nothing to do with what the government is supposed to do in demise, and that has nothing to do with internal politics. The Prime Minister here said that the Constitution doesn't say anything about the government being limited in demise. Of course, the Constitution doesn't say that, simply because the Constitution doesn't expect anyone to think that the government in demise is a full government. The government in demise, it's supposed to be as short as possible, it's an extraordinary moment, and it's all supposed to be about having a government with support. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I am well aware that everything cannot have completely precise or even written rules. As a conservative politician, I realize this very well. And this is one of those topics that it should do and what the government should not do in the demise of personnel. It is to some extent sad that we need to talk about this here, that we need to prepare some resolution that we are preparing, not today we are prepared, but we would also give the government some boundaries in the future, because this question is often much more a question of good morals, respect for certain rules than the creation of written rules. I'm not going to rain fire and sulfur on the current government. I will try to explain completely in substance why, in our opinion, this government does not have sufficient legitimacy for personnel changes, for personnel changes, which it is obviously doing and which it is obviously going to do. Why shouldn't she do them, why it is at least against our tradition and against good morals, and why in this particular case, in this particular case, it is even on the edge of legitimacy and the spirit of constitutionality. I heard the counterarguments of Prime Minister Babiš, I heard them, he introduced them even before he heard what we're coming up with. And there were examples of governments in the counterarguments, or cases of governments from the past were recalled. I want to start at once, and I want to make it very clear that these examples are completely irrelevant. Totally irrelevant. They are irrelevant for several essential reasons, and they are all the reason why this government should today show restraint in demise, why it should stop staff exchanges until it has a mandate, a proper mandate, and gain confidence under the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The first set of reasons, the essential reasons, are things that are new, which are unique, which are original, and which have never been there before with the previous governments in demise. This government in demise is not, as it were, a normal government in demise, a government without confidence, in some time, and you, Prime Minister, are not a prime minister who led the negotiations to set up a coalition that built a coalition on some ground plan, set it up on the basis of negotiations and in good faith, and which sought, sought and approached the parliamentary majority and did not reach it for some reason, for example. One or two votes missing. There's no such situation. There's been a situation like this in the past, and there's just no such situation now, and the examples don't add up. This is a government that arose primarily - above all - on the basis of President Zeman's constitutional self-righteousness. It was clear from the beginning that this government - I am not talking about any future government - this government, which is now making personnel changes, does not have and will not have the support of the Chamber of Deputies. This was not a matter of negotiation, it was clear from the start - the way the government was created, the way it was appointed, that this method would not allow it to gain a majority. And that's how it was. This government has not received support from one single vote outside the ANO movement, which has not received a third of the votes in the elections. These are the facts, please. And the Prime Minister himself, as well as the President, publicly and out loud, and in my opinion, very careless, but that is also a question of taste and political tactics, they admitted how and why this government was created and why it was appointed. They say they can remove Prime Minister Sobotka's government as soon as possible. Well, please, I can understand this as well, but then it's not a government that has the legitimacy to make fundamental personnel changes, because under such conditions, it has legitimacy to one thing at a time, and that is to shine and drown. That's all a government has to do with legitimacy. And its President, who is appointed by the President, has one major duty - and once again, Prime Minister, one major duty - to try to form a majority government and gain the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. You're not supposed to do anything else. You are to try to form a majority government and gain the support of the Chamber of Deputies. That's it. But in five months, at least clearly, you haven't even approached such a result, Prime Minister. I read yesterday's statement from your ally, President Zeman, who said: I am getting a little nervous about this matter from Mr. Babiš. Well, I'm very nervous now, because in five months, we haven't come close to a government that should have any confidence. That was the first reason. The second reason for the whole package of reasons that have not yet been here is the political background of this government in demise, this government without confidence. This political background at the moment is clearly supported by KSČM and SPD. Of course, you don't want to admit it, you pretend it's not official, like there's no such thing. But it's here, and we're having it here today and every day. This is a one-color government in a demise that lives with the silent support of KSČM and SPD, and it is the first time since 1989 when a government relies on the support of communists. I am convinced that even the ANO movement did not receive a mandate from the voters, that it did not get it except for the communists, there I respect it, a mandate at all, but that is another question. Please do this, and if the government gets proper constitutional trust from the communists or from the SPD, we won't like it, but we have to respect it, because then it will be legitimate and legal. But so far, the operation of this monochrome minority government, with the silent support of the communists, is de facto some sort of fraud on the citizens, and this government must be restrained in all essential matters. I think that each of us here will demonstrate by voting whether we approve of a long-term monochrome government in a demise based on communists, and this, of course, concerns the SPD as well. The third reason why I am very critical of all the submitters for what the government is doing is the way in which personnel exchanges are made. And I didn't hear it just me or my colleagues who met with the director of GIBS, but the public heard it too, we all heard it for example. from the Director of the General Inspection of the Security Corps. [[9.50 hours]] For the sake of my understanding, ladies and gentlemen, I am not defending Mr. GIBS here, I am not judging his performance or his incompetence, but I consider it principled that this tasteless blackmail cannot be done by the Prime Minister in demise. And it's not just the director of the GIBS, although it's obviously the tip of the iceberg. I will just mention the appeal of the head of CzechInvest, Czech Post, Faculty Hospital in Ostrava, Na Bulovka Hospital, the Management Committee of the Czech Railways, many deputy officers and, last but not least, the complete reelection of the Government Committee for Personal Nominations, which gives recommendations for personnel changes. These changes have come so far that even some of the deputies are about to judge. So this third reason also concerns the way in which these personnel changes are made, the extent to which they are implemented, for which this government has no legitimacy in demise. The fourth reason is the fact - and I am asking you now only as a simple fact, which I must respect if I respect the rule of law - that is, the fourth reason is that we have never had a government in the past in a demise headed by the Prime Minister who is accused. Please don't take that as an insult, it's just a fact! And then the Prime Minister cannot be surprised by the concern and opposition if, in such a position, in such a situation, in demise and with accusations, he seeks exchange e.g. in the security forces, e.g. the authority to control the activities of the Police of the Czech Republic. I cannot rule out at all, I cannot rule out that in the future this House will give confidence to a government headed by a prime minister who is accused, I cannot rule that out. And then, of course, this argument about legitimacy and legality will somehow weaken by decision of the Chamber of Deputies. It won't disappear, but it'll weaken. But it hasn't happened yet! So far, the Prime Minister's government is in demise, the Prime Minister, who is also accused, and therefore I consider it appropriate, we consider it important that the Prime Minister and the Government behave in such a situation as is most restrictive. These are the main reasons why, as an ODS, we are very critical of the personnel changes that the government is making. Why do we think they're beyond legitimacy? And why today's situation, and I am stressing this again, is completely different from any other previous situation that we have experienced with governments in demise in the Czech Republic since 1989. And now, to the very end. If the negotiations of the YES movement, and I do not know that, if the negotiations of the YES movement with the ČSSD and with the support of the communists are developing hopefully, and if the YES movement conducts such negotiations seriously, then the personnel changes can simply wait a few more days! You'll have a government with communists here, but we'll hardly be able to question the legitimacy of personnel decisions, however much we don't like them. But if this is not the case, otherwise, if there is only a kind of camouflage and no majority government in which ČSSD would be and which would be supported by the KSČM, it is not in the near future, then large-scale personnel exchanges by a single-color minority government are questionable, are at the very edge of legitimacy, and we are here very strongly encouraging the government to be modest. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the main arguments for which we have called this extraordinary meeting. These are the main arguments we want to talk about. We would very much like all Members of the Chamber of Deputies to express their views. Therefore, on the basis of these arguments, I am asking you to approve the proposed agenda and to allow proper consideration of this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u5	I thank Mr Petr Fial, Vice-President of the House. Now Minister Martin Stropnický, President Miroslav Kalousek will prepare. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as minister of demise, I do not want to be confrontational, but as minister of demise, I want to be specific. What is the government supposed to do in demise and what isn't to do? Of course, I also advocate that better than defining every step and every signature and every act is not the right approach, but that there should be some elementary political culture that exists by customary law. I'm a little concerned that a lot of people here, I think, have argued over the past few days about what's going on in a foreign country. This is admirable when someone knows exactly how many countries governments in demise go to the county or don't go to the country, but I leave that aside. A lot of things have to be done within that government. And so do any of you with that executive experience. The apparatus must not be stopped, the apparatus tends to work in lower rotations, of course - and who pays for that? Well, the citizen pays for it. So you need to keep these resorts at some operating temperature, and a number of those agendas just can't be stopped or would be very undesirable. For everything I can say what is always the most visible, and that is the drawing of the budget. What is as if attractive and what he writes emotionally are the famous staff that are often said not to be at all, and that is more the case. You know, the interesting thing is that it bothers me that there are some personal changes that he's taking, but it's rarely the question of why they're being approached. I would like to make it very clear that the fact that an army of NATO people is marching on the Ministry is simply a lie. That's not true, I didn't even do it in defense, and I don't do it abroad. The occupation of functions was, after all, the product of the opposition agreement, when it came to such details that in order to apply for the post of primary school director, one or the other had to have a card or at least an extremely close proximity to one or the other of these great traditional parties. Please, fellow Members, don't blame us. It's just not true, and it's very easy to prove. At the State Department, to be specific, I didn't occupy two political Deputys' seats, just as the law allows me. It was obvious, it was a deal, and without losing the flower, absolutely. One deputy who, in my opinion, was created artificially, the expert, I canceled. I regrouped the unions, and even in this case, the person, the expert, the deputy, was a woman, was not exposed to any personal or other damage, because it was already clear that he would travel abroad. I must remember that time when we were talking here, when we were arguing hard about the Civil Service Act, which, like many other things, we may have taken over as the very last countries of the European Union. We're doing quite well, by the way, and maybe it's worth wondering why we're the last in almost everything. But so be it. So here it said yes, you said it, and the opposition said it, and there was something about it, I have to say that the law is being created so that political nominees would actually petrify themselves in the locations of the vice-president. And that's what happened. That's what happened, we all knew that, and unfortunately, it happened. And that is why we, ministers, have inherited political deputies who have become professional and necessary. With whom it is very difficult to then in any way... But even in this case, we follow the law, even in this case, there are no massive exchanges. And for your resort - to none! [[10.00 hours]] I'd be more specific about what to do. So for my part, I would like to say that we have agreed that, for example, foreign trips will be reduced to negotiations in multilateral forums where we have to commute, we will all agree, whether it is the Union or it is the Alliance or the UN, the OSCE and others. It just can't stop there, it would damage this republic. We agreed on trips that have some business character and to help our exports, so we agreed - by the way, yesterday, it was also pre-conditioned for the government to accompany entrepreneurs on such trips, so that ministers would be available at home as much as possible and working on their ministries. But we can't wait. We have to work, no matter how demise we are, because people expect us to work in their favor, and we're just as in demise, I think, on salaries as out of demise. So in this respect, I feel obliged to do the job 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u7	Good morning. Another with priority rights is President Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has approached us here first and focused much of his speech on telling us that he doesn't actually understand what he wants from him, why do we call it, when in the past such steps have been taken, such, such, and those steps are comparable to what is happening today. One of the leading Czech commentators described the philosophy of this speech with such a concise and brief quote... [[It is briefly suppressed because one of the members of the YES brings something and comments behind it at the ministerial bench.]] So apt and brief quote that I will allow myself to borrow it, I will just try to translate two words as accurately as possible into terms that can be spoken in the Chamber of Deputies. The Prime Minister here basically told us, "Why do you blame us for our excrement when it's been pooped in front of us?" Well, we're doing this because we have to, Prime Minister. The Chamber of Deputies has an important control role, not a legislative role, and it has to control the steps of the government, the steps of the executive... [[Members of the ANO movement are leaving the O.R.]] It is intended to control the steps of government and the steps of executives in everything that it considers to be incorrect at the border of the law and at the border of the Constitution, in particular as regards the General Inspection of the Security Corps, which, by its nature, is an impartial institution and has been designed so that it cannot be adapted politically to either political party. You yourself, Prime Minister, have described the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps as Langerův's invention in order to divide the party's influence on the security corps. I would like to point out that this is not true. The general inspection of the security forces was one of the anti-corruption measures of the Nečasův government and was established on the basis of the proposals of Ministers Pospíšil, Kubice and Kalousek, and I do not think that any of these three gentlemen would be in any way close to your interests or the interests of Ivan Langer and wanted to fulfill them in any way. If I come out of the information that was heard in public, then you have tried various methods of working on Colonel Murín, the Director of the General Inspection of Security Corps, to get a man who can only be recalled for legal reasons to resign. If it's true, and I have no reason to doubt it, then you asked him to resign, saying that if you could help him secure another lucrative place. I merely point out that in the legal interpretation of the Olomouc prosecutors, such a step is a corrupt offence. According to Olomouc officials, offering someone a position he is not entitled to is a corrupt act. I don't agree with this interpretation, but I'm not a prosecutor. When this offer was heard, then you were using threats that if Colonel Murín does not withdraw, there will be a scandal. And even if this threat was heard, shortly thereafter, financial control came to the General Inspection of the Security Corps to prove that you were serious about your words and that you were able to arrange the scandal. I would like to point out here that the financial control of the Ministry of Finance must be impartial, that it is working on a control plan and that it is subject to the Minister of Finance, not to the Prime Minister. I have intersected the Minister of Finance to ask politely why and for what reason there has been a sudden change in the control plan and the immediate onset of financial control on the General Inspection of the Security Corps. And in summary, with all the connections - your persuasion of Colonel Murín, your extortion or your threats to Colonel Murín - I cannot see it any other way than that financial control has been used to pressure the director of an impartial institution so that the General Inspection of the Security Corps can take over the influence of one political party. If you're here, Prime Minister, he said you weren't politicizing, that you weren't trying to get your people into individual institutions, well, this is a specific example of how you're trying to get the Security Council's general inspection under the specific influence of one political party, movement YES 2011. So, in summary, the methods you use as a government in demise to those personnel exchanges are extremely dangerous, and I consider it necessary for the Chamber of Deputies to deal with them. I think that even members of the ANO movement, who here, when discussing whether an emergency meeting will be approved or not, complained that they could not speak and could not respond to our speeches, deserved to be able to discuss this. He deserves this to be explained here and so that we can say to ourselves what the government may or may not do in demise and what is or is not dangerous for the performance of, in particular, those impartial and independent institutions, especially in the security area, especially when we have a prime minister who is criminally prosecuted and has a huge conflict of interest in the police as well as in the forces that are supervising the police. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u9	Thank you to President Miroslav Kalousek. I'm going to ask for another word from President Pavel Bělobrádek. And since I'm getting questions here, what order and how many, I'll just read it quickly. So, after President Bělobrádek, President Chvojka, then President Bartoš, then Minister Němcová, then President Farský, then President Stanjura, then Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is marked here for the end, but after him I also have Minister Hüner, so we will sort it out, and Minister Schillerová too. So please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask Mr President if he could find out the quorum, because, Dear Government, honourable Members of the Chamber of Deputies, fellow citizens, I do not see here... And here is the first Member, besides those who are in the government for the YES movement, so maybe I would like to ask that we check the quorum if we are at all capable, because the members of the YES movement with honest exceptions are - they seem to be working somewhere else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u11	Then I will grant your request. So, to find out thevorum, I'm gonna sign everyone off one day, please, and sign up again with your voting cards to see if there's enough of us here. As we know, the quorum is not needed at this point, but I have complied with the request, but it does not change the fact that we are going to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u12	We're not voting, but to find out if we can act at all, it's okay. [[President: Yes, that is why I have granted you.]] I'm just responding to some questions here, because if we're not a quorum, then it works, right? So let me respond to some of the Prime Minister's remarks. Mr. Babiš here tells us that the government is now adopting laws. I am convinced, perhaps you will correct me, that the government does not accept the laws, that the laws are adopted by Parliament. I must turn against what Mr Babiš said, that there are parties that do not want to negotiate. I can say that we wanted to negotiate, we were ready, before the elections we did not exclude the coalition with the YES movement, we did not exclude it even after the elections, we had some conditions, however we were prepared to negotiate and we said our conditions, which are still the same. And I would also like to say that it has also become clear from the Prime Minister's statement that - before the elections, and he confirmed this clearly after the elections - that the coalition government does not in principle want it, that it does not prefer it, that it wants a minority government, preferably monochrome. And it finally showed up in that meeting that was on Wednesday, when we heard from the SPD movement that the government was preparing here not only with the support of the communists but also with the SPD. And I'm convinced, and the steps are consistent, they're factual steps, that it's being prepared, because there's no way that the government of Andrej Babiš is going to be here. There are a number of possibilities, but we all see that there is already a prepared and prepared government that will be a minority here, the YES movement with Prime Minister Babiš, the person who is accused, the person who is the chairman of the winning movement, I respect that the YES movement has a condition that it will be a candidate for the Prime Minister, but it is not true that the other parties would not want to negotiate. That's a lie, please. I am convinced that the political cleansing that is taking place, and I must... As has been said here, concrete actions. Let's take a look at the Department of Agriculture. After four hours, Mr Prime Minister, through Mr President, although this is not absolutely necessary, but I will use it, after four hours your Minister of Agriculture recognized that a person who was an expert who went to work as Deputy Minister, not political but professional, from a commercial sphere where he had a much higher salary than when he joined the State Administration, and after four hours your Minister knew that he was useless, even though he had saved CZK 900 million in his work on how the entire IT system agenda at the Ministry of Agriculture had been occupied. The person, who evidently, in fact, positively, objectively spared this state hundreds of millions of crowns, was to leave, although he was a top expert in practice, whose practice is absolutely indisputable, his results at the resort are indisputable, and which was from practice and went down with salary. So don't just say anything about political deputies. It's okay. Moreover, if I'm not mistaken, there is still a political deputy at the Ministry of Agriculture, but this expert, who saved hundreds of millions, was fired. Yes, you're following the law, maybe, because that's where some people will probably sue. In the same way, I think that criticism was also earned by our government by what was happening at the Ministry of Health, because systemization is being used to banish those who either have personal disputes or have contact with some political party. And because they're from some political party, they get fired, even though they're from practice, that they're experts and that they're actually going to the state administration to make altruism. I believe that the secretariats that you, Prime Minister, have repealed at the Office of the Government, that this is completely legitimate. It's perfectly okay, and there's nothing to be said about it. It's okay. If some sections are cancelled if government members' seats are cancelled, it is logical that their apparatus, which dealt with the political agenda, is cancelled. But if, basically, the vice-ministers in your government are eliminated, it's completely different. I repeat, deputy professors. I believe your question that you do not know why this meeting is being convened has two explanations. Either you don't really know, and then you're incompetent, or you know that, and you're making voters and we're fools. I'm convinced that voters aren't stupid enough to know in time that you're making fun of them, that in your PR, you're hanging beeps on people's noses, and that you've been resisting your opinions for a long time. I am also convinced that Mr Kučera's appeal or the appeal of the head of the Czech Post is entirely in the hands of the government. It's perfectly okay. And personally, I may have reservations about both gentlemen, I may have reservations about the others you've called off. But this should not be done by a government that, in this Chamber of Deputies, has not received any other vote in the vote on trust, apart from your party's Members. It could have waited, and you could have taken those steps further. I understand that you're anxious, and I understand that, but I'm convinced that the government, even though it can do that, even if it's in remission, shouldn't do that. And that's why. The reason is that a government that doesn't have trust that doesn't have trust is simply not supposed to do everything that the government does with confidence. And it is obvious that when we have a government in the Czech Republic, which was, as has already been rightly said, especially because the President of the Republic did not want Prime Minister Sobotka to continue. That was also the reason why, unlike Germany, the government is no longer in control, and there is not really any pressure to create a government here that will have confidence in the Chamber of Deputies, so let's just put it how it is. And let's just say that Sobotkův's government, which was in remission, didn't make any major decisions either. And if you mentioned Rusnokův's government, what Rusnok's government was doing, the Chamber of Deputies disagreed, it also dissolved, and there were early elections. After all, the early elections were because Rusnokův's government was here, which had no confidence in the Chamber of Deputies. That was a reason for the House to dissolve. I am also convinced that it is very important for all of us to remember the facts, and I am talking about the facts. Talking about the GE project at coalition councils, the government. You say it's a success. Let's see if all the conditions that were met at the beginning were met, how much money is there then, which was to be won out of the state budget, and how much will eventually be made out of the state budget. I don't want to keep it here, but it's facts. I believe that the Czech Republic should observe, and constitutional officials too, unfortunately we are not always witnessing this, even unwritten rules. I wouldn't exactly say it's a customary law, but some rules. Not everything in the Constitution or in the laws is written that it does not go to the bathroom in public places, in the theatre, for example, in the hall, that it does not smell up the sleeve, that I do not really have to touch someone in any way that is not a criminal offence or an offence. Yes, and in this case, it's exactly the same in my opinion. [[10.20 hours]] After all, this is all about the actions you are doing here, which you are justifying, and as I have demonstrated on specific facts that relate not only to political representatives, not only to the Secretariat of the cancelled agenda or to the cancelled parts of the Office of the Government, so in this case, there are experts here who should actually be recalled by ministers, or by government members, to be precise under the Constitution, who have the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. Your government didn't get the trust, that's why you shouldn't have done it. And make them when you get that trust with the voices of what it looks like, radical left and extremists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u13	Thank you to Prime Minister Bělobrádek. I will now ask President Chvojka to speak. In the meantime, I'll read one apology. The meeting of the Chamber of Deputies apologizes because of illness, Mr Ivan Jáč. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please. [[A Member of the Faltynek has taken the floor and is discussing something with people in the government bench. The invited speaker objects that he can't.]] I'd like to ask President Faltýnek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor. I would also ask President Faltýnek not to disturb the Prime Minister, because what I am going to say is important, and I would like him to listen, because it will also concern him. [[Ambassador Faltynek is going back to his seat.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few comments on the Prime Minister's speech in demise and on the subject of today's meeting. I firmly believe that the meeting will actually begin, even though we are not here to listen to the Prime Minister's demise problems. He, as Prime Minister, is supposed to be able to solve these problems by law. We as the House control him. So I believe it doesn't turn out that after we've listened to him, after we've listened to his sorrows, he won't listen to us, that means not only those who prefer the law, but the others, which is exactly the opposite of what he should be. He should listen to absolutely all those who are interested in speaking on this matter, all the more so because it is a minority government, without trust and in demise. The first thing I wanted to ask the Prime Minister is a matter which is very troubling to me, and I believe he will then comment on it at the end of his speech, where he wants to respond to all our objections, proposals and comments. In the media, I read about a certain list of 364 ČSSD members in all government offices. It's going to be 364 people from social democracy. Young Social Democrats have already initiated the Office for Personal Data Protection. And Prime Minister Babiš allegedly admitted the existence of this list in negotiations with STAN. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether he is having civil servants illustrate if he knows that freedom of political expression and conviction is guaranteed by the Constitution. And if that's the case, if he's trying to illustrate where he is, the official is in what party, then I consider it a complete scandal, and I would like the Prime Minister to either dement that such a list exists, or to confess and acknowledge his misconduct. I'm begging you. After all, it is perfectly normal in a democratic state, which I hope the Czech Republic, is still that a civil servant can be a member of a political party, must not in any way be persecuted for it at all. I repeat, a member of the ranks, of course. As far as the Service Act referred to by the Prime Minister is concerned, it is true that before the approval of the Service Act, there was indeed a political occupation of ministerial posts. Social democracy, however, played a different role than the Prime Minister's demise. The social democracy mentioned several times by the Prime Minister here was the political force that Parliament's service law wanted to enforce and strive repeatedly from the opposition for its effectiveness and start over right-wing governments, which had absolutely no interest in depoliticising and professionalising the state's service and service to people. Social democracy was also the one under which the previous coalition passed the service law. It was a coalition of the ČSSD, movement YES and KDU-ČSL. And then, as the only one and alone against everyone, she defended the independent civil service, the independence of the head of the civil service, and the exclusion of any special-purpose changes in the systematicisation of the posts, the rescindability of the Deputys only on the basis of a poor service assessment. Unfortunately, these principles were torpedoed at the time, if I remember correctly, ODS and TOP 09 before the final version of the Service Act. It is the places that have been changed at the last minute that are now being used for special-purpose changes, for the systematicisation of service posts, in order to get rid of the so-called poor-quality people. Changes in service places are not made and must not be made due to the need for changes in staff, that is to say, changes in specific persons, only because someone is a person, for example, the ranking officer on the list that allegedly exists. It's forbidden. If civil servants are failing, disciplinary proceedings shall be conducted. If performance is bad in the long run, there is a service evaluation. Yes, it's personnel management. Thus, depoliticization and professionalisation of the state service through social democracy took place by law. And that it is not a so-called one-off action, but it is a process of gradually improving the state service for several years, perhaps even many years, on the basis of the work of ministers and state secretaries, government and head of state service. That's just the truth. Otherwise, we can't reach better civil servants. I dare not dream what would have happened if the opposition had been successful in all the ideas they wanted in the Service Act. Unfortunately, social democracy was on its own at the time. That would no longer be a stone on a stone. All changes in the state service will be closely monitored by social democracy and defend the principles of independence, depoliticisation and professionalisation of state administration. We are ready to submit our own amendment to the state service in order to prevent special-purpose changes, the systematicisation of jobs and changes on the basis of a political T-shirt. The Prime Minister has mentioned Topolánkův's government many times. Of course, it was the government with which ČSSD had a major problem. After all, we were political opponents. But I think the first Topolánkův government is not and cannot be an example to the government of Andrej Babiš. According to the Prime Minister, the era of godfathers, the era of corruption and clientelism is the period of Topolánkův's time. And to say that it's okay to take the same steps as the first Topolánkův government, so that could mean that someone here is 100% committed to this corruption legacy. In conclusion, just a little reminder. And I'd like the Prime Minister to comment on that, too. 14 days ago I read in an interview - now I don't know if it was law or news.cz - in an interview with the Prime Minister that he had to clear the Office of the Government from many officials that Bělobrádek and Chvojka had dragged there. Which kind of pissed me off, because I didn't bring one single person in the Prime Minister's words. Because of me, one job wasn't open, one job or one job. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister for an explanation as to what he meant. If he has any information about me dragging anyone in there, that someone would be accepted there because of me, that I would have had to raise jobs or standard employment conditions, I would have asked him for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u15	I thank President Chvojka and now President Bartoš is in order. I will read the order here again to review: President Bartoš, Minister Němcová, Mr Farský, Mr Stanjura, Prime Minister Babiš at the end, Minister Hüner, Minister Schillerová, President Bartošek and President Gazdík. That's the order. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u16	Hello, esteemed colleagues. I would only try to speak briefly to what was said here. We've heard references from the Prime Minister here to some previous governments, and what they were doing, so I just want to say that the situation is a little different. We have a directly elected president who does not answer to some part of the Chamber of Deputies with these particular Members voting for him. When we had one crisis here and there was Rusnokův's government, although the majority of the House was for a legitimate government to be here, the House was dissolved, and now we are simply in a situation where, in agreement with the Prime Minister and the President, a government that does not have a coalition partner is held here, even if it is a related coalition partner, as we see here at least for a vote that could de facto control the activities of this government, a monochrome government, which essentially, as the Prime Minister said not only here, but also in the media, works as a family, which, among other things, is also seen in the task of where it needs to be checked. And the fact that it was a letter and it wasn't straight doesn't change the fact that the Prime Minister can't send financial controls wherever he wants. There. The government started applying its personnel policy before the holidays, if you remember any period of the twenty-first, twenty-twoth. A number of deputies have been released, and this practice continues. What's wrong with that? We do not doubt that, historically, there may be a number of people in government and institutions who are engaged for some political reasons or friendly relations with the government that was at that time or to a political party. Even in some cases, because we have historical problems with some people in the state administration, it could also conjure us up, but it is not a reason for these people to be released for an hour to be released and some vague arguments about the type of loss of trust are made to the media, which is why I find it quite ridiculous for the government without trust and for the Prime Minister to use this reasoning in the case of the director in Bulovka, but in particular for those reasons to be followed by the public post. [[Expost]] So I believe that if someone isn't doing well, it is a perfectly good procedure to convey this suspicion, to say why this is happening, and not when someone notices it, as we may have managed to record the transfer of the DEA to the Office of the Government, and therefore, in fact, the abolition of Mr. Jindřich Vobořil's position. If anyone notices, it can sometimes be stopped. Mr. Director Murín's case. I am certainly not the one who would dig for a general inspection in terms of the quality of her work, however, that the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš approached him with leaving, we knew that three weeks before the inspection, virtually. Before it got public, and then we discussed it here in the House. I have intersected the Prime Minister, however, for two of my four questions, when was one of these - did you speak to Mr Murín forward? - I didn't get the answer. Then I'll go back to what I started. Of course, de facto Mr Babiš and actually the government can make changes in personnel policy at the moment. Sometimes it can be good for the cause, usually it doesn't have to be good for the cause. And what are the guarantees? That's what we fear most. If there is no coalition government, if there is no government that relies on the House's trust, there is therefore no partner who, if he did not agree to any personal change, where there is a guarantee that the selection procedures that are actually creating subsections YES now, because the part under the Office of the Government decides on those nominations where the guarantees are that candidates for political posts but also for professional posts are chosen correctly? I am glad that Mr. Andrej Babiš here recently spoke about the lack of a nomination law to address this. Once again, de facto, in the current situation of a monochrome government without confidence, the nomination law would only work if there were people who were either from the ANO movement or are actually nominated by this government. But there's a nomination law to be passed. We announced his submission. On the eighth, a big anti-corruption group meeting was scheduled to take place, led by Mr. Vondráček as well, so that was postponed. We have the bill prepared, but I saw that yesterday, with the signature of 11 members of the YES, there was a bill flying without this meeting taking place without, perhaps, looking for a common consensus. So that's why we supported the call for this meeting. We'd like to ask about the guarantees. Obviously, the fact that we have been appealing to the government of Andrej Babiš for two months does not change personnel, and so when it decides in some way to clear the apparatus, which is under the various ministries, that it should be able to justify it and not to invent any additional reasons when it comes out. At this meeting, we would like to hear the guarantees, the real reasons, explain again the chronology of Director Murín's case. That is why we supported this meeting. At the same time, we want to discuss the nomination law as quickly as possible, so that there is a guarantee, therefore, that the government, which unfortunately thanks to its friendship with Mr President Bianko checks at least until June, is unable to enter into these positions, which are obviously exchanged whenever a new government comes, to impose people without any control, and that we really have the maximum guarantees that it does not merely occur that people who were close in history, even yes, social democracy, KDU-ČSL or anyone, are exchanged only for other people who may have specific expertise, but also may not, and are solely in favour of the only one government party of YES at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u17	I thank President Bartoš and now Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs Jaroslava Němcová has the floor. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u18	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, esteemed by the present, allow me also to respond for my department, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, to the former and previous speakers. I made systemic changes at the end of December, i.e. organizational changes, at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, resulting in a reduction from the original nine professional deputy to seven. The changes concerned, in particular, three sections, the economic section, the IT section and the section of the European Funds. The IT section and the newly established section on economic and information technologies have been abolished and the section on the economy of European funds has been abolished. At the same time, the social and family policy sections have been abolished, and the appeal and administrative activities and non-insurance benefits have been integrated into the newly established section on administrative activities and social policy. In total, the finals resulted in the abolition of ten heads, four deputy directors, two directors of the department and three heads of the department were dismissed. I will not delay much, I will say only a few, I hope, factual comments and the evidence that led me to this. The changes concerned, in particular, the economic and IT sections, and, as President Bělobrádek has already said, they also dealt with experts who came from the private sphere and helped the Ministry. On the table on the first day in my office, I had a few greetings. I'm sorry about the word. One greeting was the conclusion of the SAO audit action of November 2017, which spoke in several places, but I will not delay that, on the basis of the findings of the SAO, it states that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs did not carry out correct, complete and conclusive accounting in 2016 within the meaning of the sections of the Accounting Act. In total, it was incorrect accounting for 8,396 billion. Crowns. This was a reduction or error in the balance sheet for 4.7 billion, in the profit and loss account for 2.1 billion. etc. etc. The SAO also stated that it was not possible to comment on the reliability of the accounting conclusions and was therefore limited to a significant extent due to the inconclusiveness of the accounts. [[10.40 hours]] In addition to that, the SAO's conclusion was also on my desk a calculated fine with a very serious threat of sanctions and other sanctions applied by Oracle in terms of running a licensing policy of 411 million. Crowns. When I was a little bit - I'm sorry for the expression - looking for contracts, then after it was explained to me that there was a small shredder on December 13 and 14 because we didn't notice it at that speed, only on our second floor, where my office and cabinet were carried 110 sacks, a truck full of small shredders. So if we were looking for contracts for the economic system, that's why the change, I believe, is justified in the IT section, we were only looking for contracts for the economic system for 290 million. The crowns, so we couldn't find them. If we look at the contracts that have been published, which have been published on 13 December, and I just point out on 12 December for 750 miles. CZK, that means the day before our arrival, so only after the quick sum and quick analysis we stopped some of them, on the server repository, what you must have read in the media, on IT phones, as they should in 200 miles. telephones that were not for the entire resort would not be compatible with other technologies. Plus, we have a technique that is fully operational, and we have it serviced by 2025. So that's one of the next steps. I firmly believe that I can continue here, because the things that are here and which we have been analyzing and analyzing today, and last week we also received a very extensive case report from the Supreme Audit Office, which my colleagues forgot to inform me about, and we learned three weeks ago. I believe there were no political cleansings at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The fact that it was not a purge of experts, I believe that if you are interested in this, and that information will gradually be provided, as the audits will be completed, as the forensic audits will be completed and as the SAO's outcome will be resolved, I will leave you all to an assessment. If you can't even get into the offices on the 13th, and you've also read it from the media, and after two days when you're in office, because four Deputys, just those who have been called off, have, for two million, three hundred, locked offices without a tender, and it's guarded by an external company without a tender, and neither by the security director at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, nor by the Czech Social Security Administration, where there was also one office, they don't know what's going on there, so I believe that you understand that the steps that have led to organizational changes at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have been done really in order to make the Ministry's activities more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u19	I thank the Minister. I therefore now call on the microphone of President Jan Farský. And in the meantime, I'll read one apology. For the rest of the day until the end of the meeting, Minister of Defence Martin Stropnickýý apologizes for working reasons. [[abroad]] Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is quite an absurd situation when you hear from those grounds of appeal that they are in favour of losing trust. A government without trust that hasn't even received trust calls off someone for a loss of trust. It's a contradiction. And when it comes down to the fact that the prosecuted prime minister is referring to others on suspicion, where is the presumption of innocence, to which all those who say that we can be ruled by a criminally prosecuted person? Where did you leave her in those moments where it's supposed to be about you? The situation where some pretend that they are above the law, that laws apply to them until the moment they are beneficial to them, but when they should start acting like them, they go around them, bend them or do not follow them at all, that is a miserable, sad and terrible message for the Czech Republic. This is the atmosphere that is incorporated into the Czech Republic, which was highlighted yesterday by the President's speech. This is something not only in this building, but which affects communication at all levels of the Czech Republic. This is the breakdown of the company you are involved in, and you are also responsible for it. Because what is happening in these halls today, what happened in the castle yesterday during the inauguration, the way aggression spreads into people's communication, unfortunately this will affect and affect people's communication on social networks today, but next time also the interpersonal one. And these are the damage that is wrong - bad - will be when, and long term will also be corrected in some way. It also one called away, or the one who is threatened, the one around him will spread fear, and the others are far more obedient. It's nothing new, it's nothing untested. We saw it in the media. The phone calls of Andrej Babiš to the newly purchased Mafra, when they report if they know who they're dealing with. If they know who owns the paper now. For the rest of journalists, it often works as a self-censorship. Honor those who have not succumbed to it. But unfortunately, mostly, that's how it works. It also works that if you throw one out while you humiliate it, you'll be ostracizing it, and ten others will give you obedience. That's what the Czech government is decomposing, and that's what we're gonna be collecting from here for a long time. Fear is not a good ruler. I would like to say here that six parties representing 2.3 million voters in the Czech Republic have signed under this meeting today. The YES movement voted for 1.5 million people. I am asking the Prime Minister here directly without confidence in the resignation if the agenda of the meeting will be approved and will be allowed to speak to others, not just those who have priority rights. [[He's turning to the Prime Minister.]] It's in your power, so let's just say it. Will there be a meeting or won't there be a meeting? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u21	I thank President Farský and now give the floor to President Zbyňka Stanjur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister of Demission, Dear Ministers of Demission, Dear Minister of Demission. I know it upsets you, but the debate is about misunderstood things. And unfortunately, I came from a performance by both the Prime Minister and the Minister, for example, that they really don't understand what this meeting is for. The Prime Minister actually said: it doesn't matter whether we have confidence or we don't have trust. And we say it doesn't matter. That's the basic contradiction. The Prime Minister says, to be precise, the Prime Minister says he doesn't understand why the meeting is called. Instead of listening to us, he's already signed up in writing two days in advance to speak as the first 30-minute speech he doesn't understand. I don't completely understand. But there's a dog buried in that. If you, co-workers and colleagues from YES, were expecting personal attacks from our side, humiliation, you were mistaken. At the end of my speech, I will read the proposed resolution, which we can vote on if you allow us to do so or not, which is of a general nature, is not politically targeted and should be valid for every government in demise. So just so we understand each other, and we clearly don't understand each other. Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs has told us the steps she has taken, as if we were saying: Ministers, do nothing at all. We didn't say anything like that, and you keep saying, we have to do something, otherwise we'd be useless. Again, misunderstood the meaning of the debate at all. [[10.50 hours]] But what I'm interested in. Let us combine two performances of the ANO movement representatives. The Prime Minister says, "We're not like those parties, we didn't send the deputies to those ministries, unlike you, who send your cadres there. But we didn't send them there because we needed to put some cadres somewhere, but because even within the coalition there is healthy control and information. Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs spoke with criticism of what she had found there. But those are the results of your government, Madam Secretary. You ruled for four years. I know the secretary was from another political party. Did you or didn't you? If so, they failed because you're surprised what you found there, if not, it was your conscious decision in the spirit: we don't need the Deputys there. Then don't complain that you didn't have the information. You didn't come from opposition to the government to be surprised by what you found there. You ruled for four years. Then why are you telling us what you found on the table? Well, your deputy could have dealt with that a long time ago, your ministers could have dealt with that, your Deputy Prime Minister of the government under Sobotkův's rule. And that would be screaming if Sobotkův's government were to resign, or the Minister of CSSD in Sobotkův's government in resignation, they no longer have confidence. That's right. That is why I say that the resolution that I propose, or which we propose, and I would say that, on behalf of all the six parliamentary clubs, it is quite conflicting, clear, it is based on a normal political culture, it would, of course, also concern Sobotkův's government in demise. Not just Babišův's government in demise, let's be perfectly clear. With the key speech for our club, President Fiala has spoken, so it is more like a few comments that respond to what has been said so far in the debate that a few specific points have already been made. Because I really feel like we're missing each other in this debate. But completely. I guarantee you that if your government were to gain confidence in January, maybe we're criticizing some of your actions, maybe it's for an interpelation, maybe for a personal meeting, but you should be legitimizing those steps. Now you don't have it, and you look like it doesn't matter. And that is the fundamental conflict, the fundamental misunderstanding of Parliament's role. The Prime Minister has been saying to us in the long run, "What's with the trust?" What's with the trust? Well, we say that this is the foundation of our Constitution so that the government can have confidence. So I agree with the fact that the first thing to do is to try to trust it. The Prime Minister started, he won't give me that, I've been getting written by famous Latinos, it's not from my head that you're wrong that the word demise has nothing to do with French. It's from Latin demissio - abandoned. Well, that's just for the record, if we want to point out what intellectuals we are in the use of other people's words. Now for the comparison. I think every historical comparison is a little limpy and a little fit. The Prime Minister in resignation used two governments without the trust that ruled us here, Jiří Rusnok's government and Mirek Topolánek's first government. Well, first of all, I want to point out what doesn't sit with Jiří Rusnok's government. He was the current president, appointed Prime Minister Jiří Rusnok, appointed members of the government, although there was a majority of 101 signatures in the Chamber of Deputies. There is the beginning of the decline in the role of the Chamber of Deputies in our political system, because of the short-term political objectives, it suited the left. The right was ruling, the left was legitimately trying to replace the right. There's nothing wrong with that. He criticizes, proposes appeal by the government, proposes a meeting of distrust. It's perfectly all right. The moment we approach the scenario that trust is not really needed, the president chooses one of his friends, then makes the ministers more friends, they come here to the House, even if they don't get the trust, that was clear from the first moment, but they still rule. This was, of course, not at the beginning of the parliamentary term, but in the second half, it was when the previous prime minister resigned, so the whole government resigned, and it was when the ideal clashes between the right and the left were rather heated. And the President's move was unstandard. I say, there was the beginning of the problems, there was the beginning of the creative interpretation of the Constitution. Such: when Prime Minister resigns, government falls, government falls, I can only replace the Prime Minister, others remain, there is no need for one hundred and one. What was the reaction of the then Chamber of Deputies after this government did not gain confidence? Let's just remember that. It melted, and there were early elections. So that she then ruled for a few months is a reality, but another government could not have come to ask for the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies when the Chamber of Deputies did not exist. And after the election, you, Prime Minister, were already in a new government. So arguing that Jiří Rusnok's government has been here longer does not correspond to political reality. And whoever did this, it was President Zeman who ignored the fact that there was a majority who could form a government to ask for trust and probably gain confidence. I say probably. You never know if you don't take the vote, you can't say you're sure you'll gain trust. I say probably. And this government has taken extensive personnel steps that we have criticized much more strongly than we have so far criticized Babišův's personnel actions. If you find our strong statements about Rusnokův's government's personnel measures, you'll find that it was much stronger than our statements these days, weeks and months. Because it was also clear from the very beginning that the government would not gain confidence. In fact, early elections have already been launched, so a new political representation has been awaited. Yet they made extensive personnel changes and we criticized it. What I'm saying is that our effort today isn't purposeful or purposeful, it's, as I always hear, it's the Anti-Babish program and anti-aversion program. [[unintelligible section]] We did the same thing. And now for the comparison. I expected some of the arguments expressed by the Prime Minister in his opening words. I was expecting them. We have the same background. I do not want to repeat the debates and battles of 2006 in 2018. It's not productive at all. The fundamental differences were pointed out by President Fiala. But it's just a few facts to remind you of the situation. Mirek Topolánek's government ruled from 4th September to 8th January, which is a total, I counted it as I like, 122 days, was in resignation from 11th October to 8th January. Which are facts, 122 days. This government, when asked for confidence, won 96 votes, needed 98, lacked two votes, and had the support of three MPs, three political parties. At that time, to remind you, the election ended with a heel. The central and right-wing parties had a hundred mandates, and the left-wing parties also had a hundred. There were serious political negotiations on the establishment of a government with majority support. Even, and whoever remembers, I wasn't running at the time, so I just watched it from a distance, remember the really heated ODS versus ČSSD election campaign, Topolánek versus Paroubek. I'm sure we can agree that it was a very sharp, rather confrontational campaign. Yet, after this 100-hundredth result, serious political negotiations took place when one of the models of solutions was a large coalition. Both of these presidents, who are no longer in politics, are by chance not even members of their political party at the time, yet held serious political negotiations on the formation of a large coalition, programmed, personnel. Yes, there was no deal. That's reality. That's reality. So if you want to take advantage of and argue with Mirek Topolánek's first government, then you still have time, so I figured it out nicely. On April 15, the government will be appointed, and on April 25, the government will gain confidence. Then it'll be time-fifty-fifty, exactly for the day. It's only March 9th, you still have a chance to make it. And if it's April 14th and April 24th, you can say our government without confidence lasted two days less than the government without trust of Mirek Topolánek. [[11.00 hours]] And out of all the changes the Prime Minister was talking about in the demise, I have to comment on one thing, because the Prime Minister brought it to public space in demise, and that's GIBS, and he says his predecessor, the Interior Minister's Inspectorate, so Langer threw him out there, so I'm doing the same thing. By the way, under normal circumstances, Andrej Babiš didn't let Mirek Topolánek and Ivan Langer thread dry. In these days of argumental distress, he says: I do it the same way as Mirek Topolánek and Ivan Langer, so what do you guys still have at ODS? But that's sideways. I've had the circumstances check out, and the comparison doesn't add up. Firstly, there was no service law for security forces members or a five-year term of office for their bosses. Secondly, the inspection of the Ministry of the Interior was no security corps, let alone independent, like today. But now the important thing - the reasons for the appeal. The main reason for the appeal was that the Interior Minister's inspection was using telecommunications, Prime Minister. The reason was that this inspection overtook the telecommunication traffic, or abused the wiretap. In 2006 this information was confirmed by a letter to the Chamber of Deputies - not somewhere in the newspapers or somewhere between the doors, by a letter to the Chamber of Deputies - to the then Minister of Justice, then director of the department of special activities which provided these listenings, plk Ing Tomáš Almer. You know the name, Prime Minister. In that capacity, this man pointed out by letter to the Chamber of Deputies that the Interior Minister's inspection under the leadership of the then chief of this inspection was overused - or abused, he used the word overused, I interpret it as abusing - wiretapping. Based on that letter, the secret regime - I wasn't there, so I don't know what - met the Security Committee and based on the information discussed by Colonel Col. Almer has been recalled by the Director of the Interior Minister's Inspection. [[Nesroz.]] So if we're using examples from the past, let's also say who it is. The man who wrote the letter - and we will agree, Prime Minister - was no ODS man. He was in office before, and we came to that government after eight years in opposition, and the colonel also held out for years in that capacity for other governments. I don't know exactly how long he's been in that position. But I don't want to turn the debate in the way it was in 2006. That's just a reaction to the Prime Minister's speech, and I don't want to comment on the others. If the ministers start coming here now and they say, well, I found a report of the SAO on my department, or this on my desk, it's not understanding this debate again. We don't really say which minister did the wrong thing. We're talking about government without trust being very restrained. And I will quite finally read you the motion for a resolution, because I do not know if I will have a chance in a proper debate, and you will accept that these resolutions are not offensive and that they could have general validity. The first resolution is: 'The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government without confidence not to take unnecessary personnel action, particularly in the security and intelligence services'. And the second step, which could also have a general validity for every government without confidence: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government without confidence not to present an amendment to the Chamber of Deputies. " It's basically the same thing. The first is about political and constitutional customs, the second is more about technology - a thing that shouldn't happen. If you think it's offensive to this government, I don't think so. We have formulated this with colleagues from other political clubs who have signed with us a request to convene this meeting, so that the text is generally valid. Let's imagine we're at the first meeting, we're going to vote for the House's leadership, Sobotkův's government is still in control, and I'm going to come up with this proposal. Prime Minister Sobotka rules. He sits where Prime Minister Babiš is sitting, and I will come up with this proposal that we call on the government not to take unnecessary personnel action, especially in the security and intelligence services. And you, colleagues and colleagues from YES, honestly answer whether you would vote in favour of such a motion for a resolution at the time when Sobotka and his government would be sitting here. I think so. I can be wrong. But if we argue that the government had to come so quickly when it didn't have the confidence guaranteed, so that the Sobotkův government would leave quickly - which I think is the right argument, it just has a government that has a majority - I think it shows that you could support the resolution, that you could allow the debate. We're not really going to any personal attacks and confrontations. The point is that when it is needed, when it does not go without a resolution, we adopt a resolution that would have a lasting validity against any government without confidence and which could be approved by a significant majority. I don't see any conflict between the opposition and the coalition. Let's keep that when the government's here with confidence. Let's save that for specific programme clashes on individual bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u23	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now, I'd just like to briefly review who's logged in here. There are seven people interested in the show. It's Minister Hüner. I'll ask him to perform. Furthermore, Minister Schillerová, President Bartošek, President Gazdík, Minister Ilja Šmíd and Minister Milek. In this context, I would like to ask Minister Šmíd - at the same time your apology from the meeting for the whole day has landed on my desk, but I have you in the debate. So we're canceling the apology. So I get it. And I'll ask Minister Hüner to perform. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be able to respond to an issue relating to organizational changes. I would have several strong examples and proofs of how organizational changes, and thus personnel, occurred at the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I think it is a sad record that this ministry, which is often mentioned precisely in the matter of personnel change, did not say cleanliness, had eleven deputy ministers. Including the Secretary of State, but 11 Deputys. That's not what every judgmental person, not saying businessman, who is certainly enough in the Chamber of Deputies, or someone who has been running something in the state administration, must understand, and he knows for sure that it is the number of completely unmanageable groups of people who de facto have to follow themselves, and then it looks that way. Consequently, I would also associate things that are closely related to this matter. If, before the service law and its validity, there was an increase in precisely these representatives from six subsequently to eight and then to eleven, I think that whoever destabilized the operation of this ministry is certainly not the existing minister, but the previous ministers. I would say that the service law hides a lot of pitfalls that we are currently trying to address on the government's soil. I have acted strictly under this law in a completely open - and to this day I appreciate Mr Postráneckýý's position in this matter - communication with this office and the Chief State Secretary, when we strictly complied with this law. On the basis of this law, when combining sections to number seven, we were forced to put the Deputys off duty so that these Deputys could report back to these posts in the first round of competitions. Perhaps few have registered this within the scope of the Service Act at all. With all the deputies, they've been properly spoken to. The situation has been explained and this matter has been largely accepted and the result is that of the existing seven Deputy Ministers, one State Secretary, there are four back in office, or they are people who have been at one level below these Deputys and have worked in the Ministry for a long time. I could continue to speak on this subject for a long time, but I think that is quite enough for an idea. And now I would touch on a matter which is linked to the repeatedly mentioned boss of CzechInvest, Mr Kučera. Mr. Kučera is certainly an ambitious young smart man. What he was missing was management experience. A man who promises to investors things he did not have based on support from other ministries - finance, government and so on. This is not a good advertisement for the Czech Republic, when it subsequently does not obtain these declared advantages which the investor is to obtain. [[11.10 hours]] In addition, I would add one particular matter that forced me to deal with the situation, which was recalled by the Prime Minister here, and that is that the director of CzechInvest has called off his 12 years of working key deputy for the small and medium-sized business support division. Mr. Kučera worked at this firm for four years. If you call off a man like that, you've had four years to know what's in that person. If you call him off at a time when the Minister is worried about organizational and personnel changes at a higher level at the Ministry without informing this minister about this step, I think that not only in the business, but also in the state administration, if I had not taken the step I have taken, I would have been a manager and political suicide. Mr. Kučera and I have discussed the matter properly, and in full compliance with the law, he has removed him from office. So, honourable Members, perhaps these two examples from the level of the Ministry and the CzechInvest would be over for the moment. If I am asked or asked for further comment in the discussion, I will be happy to submit it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u25	Thank you, Minister Hüner. Now, Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, President Bartošek will be ready. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be factual, brief, like I've been trying my whole life. That means I'm not here to discuss what we're doing at the Ministry. I am working as standard, continuously, as I have moved from being deputy, we are dealing with the problems that I will be prepared to defend with the laws that we are preparing for the people of this country, defending here, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and in committees, especially in the guarantee committee, in the budget, where I will go, with what strength I will have and if I am not somewhere outside the Republic. I will therefore respond to specific comments. A comment was made by President Kalousek on the impartial implementation of public administrative control by the Ministry of Finance of GIBS. I would like to draw attention to one thing. At the Ministry of Finance, which has the competence to carry out these public administrative controls - and ultimately who else should have the competence - and these checks are carried out under the Public Control Act, regardless of what the Minister is. So they were carried out even when the President was a minister. I was immediately interested in this - I was appointed on December 13th, so at the turn of the year I had called the relevant deputy and I was interested in how it was organized, because it is completely in his gesture, he sets out plans for checks, but I wanted to know what the process outputs were. So there's this material, which, of course, with proper data, is listed in the electronic file service, it's a public administrative control plan for department 17, control. And it's not taken now for this meeting. Really, believe me, I don't. It shall have the relevant date and shall be set accordingly. This plan determines the relevant deputy according to the risk analysis in sophistication, it is no view from the window and it has a clear support. This plan always leaves room for ad hoc checks, which may result for some fundamental reasons. The GIBS audit was launched not only on the initiative of the Prime Minister, it was only one of the incentives, but on the basis of a number of suggestions available to this department which I did not see and do not want to see. That's in their gesture, they evaluated it, they evaluated it from the risk analysis point of view, and they started the check. They carry out checks on the basis of such a manual. It exists at the Treasury Department. It's a management manual, a manual, and this is strictly followed by these employees, in accordance with the law, of course. But I am a very humble person and I am willing to learn from any experience of anyone, I do not care regardless of his political classification. So I was wondering how it was before. That's what I was logically interested in. If you can't do it better. So I had an electronic file search done, because that's the only clue that could actually be clear evidence of what it was like for Mr Kalousek's ex-minister. If it can't be done better. I'm sorry, and if I'm wrong, I'm sorry, but I just couldn't find anything. There are no materials in the electronic file service. No plans, no manual, no list of checks. In the 2014 transfer documentation, only the risk analysis is processed, which contains a list of bodies for checking in paper form. There's no plan. It's just some kind of paper nobody approved. So there's no concrete trace. So I really don't know how to better defend the impartiality. I don't care about the control, the control is living its life, it's being carried out by competent staff. The results of the check will be presented to a controlled person, no one else, and, of course, if a controlled person believes that everything is okay, he has nothing to worry about. These are the reasons why the inspection is ongoing. Of course, I have a whole series of numbers, tables on how many controls were based on stimuli, how they were evaluated, everything has a clue. Specific. Why was this control based on incentives included, of course, now in the past, why it was not included. I don't want to tire you out. I am able to document and deliver at any time. As far as I'm concerned, there have been some organizational changes to the Ministry of Finance after my appointment. There were eight sections and currently there are section six, which is a number that traditionally the Ministry of Finance had at its disposal. Or maybe that's how it was in the organizational structure. I was Deputy Minister of Finance for two years, I had enough time to get to know the structure of the Ministry of Finance, and I did it absolutely with regard to this - after a discussion with the State Secretary, of course, in accordance with the Civil Service Act - what I consider the need of the Ministry of Finance to be the most reasonable and efficient after the experience I had. For interest, for example, I have two positions in the organizational structure of the political deputy. I won't cast one, I don't feel the need, and the other political deputy has been there for so many years, telling me that I'm his 12th minister, and I don't really care. čili he was there behind all the previous ministers, and he remains there because I respect him immensely. I appreciate his erudition, his historical memory, his experience, and I don't care who he worked for. I also found out at random recently without checking, rather the information came to my attention that one of the assistant professors was a member of the ČSSD. I don't really care. I'm not finding out. I'm wondering if this guy is erudized, if he's working hard, if he's doing his homework, and I appreciate, for example, the fact that he's carrying them out beyond the fact that he has an annual son. So I don't really care. As for President Chvojka's speech, I would like to make one small remark, and that is the end of it. I really welcomed his interpretation of the Civil Service Act. That's exactly what it is. State officials are protected. Their appeal is only possible under strictly defined conditions. I'm just a little sorry that some of the fellow party members who are sitting with him on the bench have been calling for my appeal to the election, and only this protection of the Civil Service Act has just protected me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u27	Thank you to Alena Schillerová and now with priority rights, Mr Bartošek, President of the KDU-ČSL Club and his colleague Gazdík. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u28	Thank you, Mr President. My performance will also be brief. Let me start by quoting Alexandr Mitrofanov as he sees Babišův's government in demise. He writes: "Invite an interviewer to see if you can accept him as a servant. You won't give him confidence. He'll fish out of your fish tank, fry and eat. Then he drives out of your dog's house, eventually he crawls into your bed, he's gonna work there, and then he's gonna ask you what you're doing there." More or less, it needs to be realized that it currently manages the country of the YES movement, has a government that has no confidence, and it has to be said that the country is managed by a party that has achieved an excellent outcome in the elections of 30%, but at the same time, it also needs to be said responsibly that it is not the majority. It is a government that has no confidence, and it is also based on the Constitutional Court, which in the past has decided that a government that has no trust, i.e. in demise, should renounce any fundamental steps. Generally speaking, it's the same as if you rent an apartment that you know you'll only be in for two months. Also, you don't knock out the rungs and break the kitchen line because you know someone else is coming in two months and they're gonna live in that apartment. And you're actually acting like a tenant who's decided to live up to the apartment. If you want to manage this country responsibly, you will not copy the manners of social democracy and the ODS you are criticizing today. That is why the service law was written, precisely because officials had been thrown out before and it appeared to be detrimental to the ministry's work. Instead of rejecting the behavioral models you criticize, you took them over, and unfortunately from that past, you copied what was wrong with a lot of things. And you don't continue to practice well, but you continue to practice badly. Well, I guess I'm gonna say in the end. The Prime Minister and Mr Vondráček, President of the Chamber of Deputies, have openly applied to the borders of democracy. Now that you're applying for something, respect it, because otherwise you're looked at as people who don't keep their word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u29	Thank you to President Bartošek. Now, my colleague Gazdík, Minister Ilja Šmíd will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u30	My esteemed fellow Member, honourable Members, Mr Prime Minister, I did not want to speak at all, but the opening speech by the Prime Minister gave me a bit of an incentive to do so. First of all, I have two major reservations, Prime Minister. The first is, you mentioned here what the previous governments did wrong, and I agree with you on a lot of things. But you promised that you were going to improve political culture, that you wanted to do it differently. The fact that somebody's done it wrong before is just not an excuse for us to do it the same way. That's one thing. Second thing. It's very good that you tell the nation that you do so-called work, that you do your job, that you try to do it honestly. But I would answer you with a quote from the series Sure, Prime Minister: But it is your job, Prime Minister, and you wished for it. That's two basic arguments for your performance. I think much has already been said here, and I will try to sum it up in two questions. A government without trust is simply not the same as a government with confidence. The government has not fulfilled the Constitution without trust and does not rely on the majority in the House. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister whether he could say publicly here that he acknowledges that he knows that a government without trust is not a full government, that he has been entrusted with negotiations by the President, has a chance, or will probably have a chance, to establish a new government that may gain confidence, that is also his job, and he also wanted it. Therefore, I ask you to answer this question: Prime Minister, do you acknowledge that the government is not a full government without trust? And the second request that should be made here, and that's what this meeting is all about. Prime Minister, please do not take any irreversible steps, especially in the security forces, especially in matters that simply cannot be corrected in any way. Do so only after you have confidence, after there is a clear majority in the House, who will also be politically responsible for your actions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u31	Thank you, Mr. Petr Gazdík. Now, Minister of Culture Ilja Šmíd, the Minister of Agriculture will prepare himself. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not enough to stare. I hear here that we're in remission, that we mustn't take irreversible steps, that we're supposed to take about the steps that are reversible, that we shouldn't take the steps forced and take the steps unforced. I kind of don't understand. Every minister, even though he's in remission, has a responsibility. I'm getting paid, and I'm supposed to be sitting in my office waving to my allowance organizations, waving to my subordinates, actually doing what you want, seeing that something's going on, seeing the corrupt potential that is in some of our contribution organizations, and I have indications about how money is probably leaking, but I'm supposed to watch it? You're talking about political responsibility, but you can't hear the fact that this is about money, this is about working. You don't care that the mail doesn't work? You don't care that hospitals don't work? You don't give a damn about the fact that they're leaking money in billions of buildings? That's what every minister has to figure out, and we have to deal with it, whether we're here for a month or two months or four years. If we don't, you'll be the first to point out that we haven't. So, of course, we want to do that. I'd like to say that The Ministry of Culture may have a slightly simpler situation in that it's small. I've only got four Deputys, I've decided to get to know my Deputys at work, because unlike most of my colleagues, I really came from the field, and I still get to know the detailed work inside the Ministry, but I also know that I probably want to get rid of some people. And I'll do it when I'm absolutely convinced that it'll be necessary, and I don't care if it's after six months and we're still in remission because I'm responsible, not you. So far, I've only called off one political deputy, and I've agreed with him that he'll be the head of my cabinet for the time being. He's working, he's trying, we'll see, maybe he'll stay at the Ministry. I made a deal with him, he said yes to me himself, I understand when you come, so you may want to bring new things, I understand that if you want, I will leave. So I just want you to realize that we're not the government that wants to do headless cleansing. After all, how many people have left the government, you know that very well. It's a minimum. Absolute minimum. The fact that there are, as I've just learned from my colleague, eleven deputy officers, that's not a normal thing to do. There's four of them, there used to be only three of them. Maybe I'll lean towards the model. We don't clean up, we don't clean up politically, I also have deputies who have been nominated by other parties. After all, I came to the government as a non-voting ANO, and the Prime Minister didn't care because he wanted to work. We want to work, we want to do it. So please leave us. We'd love to hear your comments, we'd love to listen to your voices, but we just have to take some steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u33	Thank you to Minister Ilj Šmíd. Now, Minister of Agriculture Jiří Milek, Vice-President Pikal will prepare himself. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u34	Hello, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Mr Bělobrádek's speech when I was accused that I wrongly called off one Deputy Minister, Mr Adamec, for saving this deputy 900 million. I'm asking if anyone was watching why the 900 million had been paid for IT services before. We know that IT services are one of the most complex in the past. I came from the other side and it's not true that I was in the Ministry for four hours and I fired him. I've been watching the ministry for the past 20 years because my whole life, 30 years, I've been working in agriculture. So all the steps taken by the various Deputys have had a personal impact on me. I came to the ministry where my predecessor left me only 2 billion for national subsidies, although he knew that national subsidies were paid in the amount of about 4 billion. I had to save up, and believe me, I've got my footsteps ready and I'll keep saving up. My predecessor received 215 extra people from the original 590 people at the Ministry of Agriculture. So it's an increase of at least 30 percent. I'll do everything I can to slim down the structure of the Department of Agriculture. There were 11 deputies, I'll have seven. So I think these are the steps that need to be taken. I would have expected something completely different from you. That, as ministers, you would order us to reduce the number of officials, because believe me, I was in a company where 60 inspections took place every year and these officials sat there for 120 days. I think it's starting to paralyze production, and it's not right. This deputy as an economic officer was also in charge of the subordinates. He should be paying attention to them. Subjects aren't in good shape, and if I'm appointed as Secretary of State, I'm going to make some changes so that we can get these subordinates into proper economic condition. I myself have been running for the last three years at my 17 HELIOS companies. These companies had 800 users, it's kind of like the Ministry, the same size. And it only cost us 8 million crowns. The Ministry pays tens and hundreds of millions of crowns on IT. I don't think it's good. So I wanted to explain my first step at the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u35	Thank you, Minister of Agriculture. Now Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal, President Miroslav Kalousek will be prepared, then Minister of Health and then President Bělobrádek. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u36	Hello, everyone. I do not want to speak in my own name, rather on behalf of 19 colleagues in the club who are left out of this fruitful discussion. And it also seems inappropriate to me that they are from this fruitful discussion, when it comes to, for example, waking up. state of affairs in ministries and the like, omitted former ministers. I think we should get to approve the agenda of the meeting today and actually discuss it when such a broad debate is going on really, but it is not happening with everyone. So you simply cannot listen to the views of the Members, ministers, because they do not have the opportunity to speak. And I'd also like to suggest that we act after 2:00 today, because it looks like it's gonna be long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u37	Now I understand your procedural proposal, which we must vote on without debate, that we should still act after 14 o'clock? Okay, well, in that case, I'm gonna go ahead and ask my colleagues and colleagues to come back from the lobby. I've checked you all out, ladies and gentlemen. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the procedural proposal of Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal in voting number two, which I will begin when the number of entries is settled. We will vote on the fact that today's meeting day, even if it is noon break, will not end at 14:00 and that we will continue to vote. I've started voting number two, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 2, out of 153 present for 56, against 23. The motion was denied. We can continue with the speech by President Kalousek. The Minister of Health will be ready, then President Bělobrádek. I ask the House for peace! The chairman of the TOP 09 club is Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr President, wait a little longer, because I think part of my colleagues will have another debate in the lobby, so there's a rather large level of noise... I'll ask my colleagues for peace! Thank you. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u38	Thank you, Mr President. In a standard discussion, I would have responded to Minister Schillerová's factual comment. But since we don't have a standard discussion, and I'm afraid that the proven voting coalition won't even allow it, I took the liberty of speaking the second time, to say that I didn't doubt, Madam Secretary, that when you were interviewed, when you were excused, I didn't doubt that you were going to submit material that would advocate that the GIBS control had gone on the basis of a risk analysis and based on incentives. Of course, the only thing that's bad luck is that she didn't go there based on a proper control plan. Although I agree that in some exceptional case, on the basis of the incentives in question, this period may be supplemented by an exceptional check. But first of all, I would like to say that there are a lot of incentives for a number of budget organisations and non-profit organisations that are part of Department 17's supervisory remit. That means not only on GIBS. Of course, we'd find those stimuli in a whole series of others. I have no doubt, for example, that without seeing it, that there is an incredible amount of incentive for the Office of the President of the Republic. The Prime Minister said there hasn't been a check-up on GIBS since 2012. Well, let's see when she was last in the Office of the President of the Republic and how many incentives she has there and what risk analysis looks like! And I can already see the Prime Minister sitting at the table after this information and writing a letter: There hasn't been any control in the President's Office of the Republic for a long time. Get some over there, Madam Secretary! And that's what you do. That's the problem. The problem is, you can't say you didn't know. Because you received a letter from the Prime Minister, I assume you're reading. And as a minister and as a politician, it must have been clear to you that at that moment there is a huge suspicion of a conflict of interest, because this complaint is given by the criminally prosecuted Prime Minister, who, logically, may be very interested in changing the Director of the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps, personal interest in creating pressure on institutions that can or cannot influence whether or not he is being investigated impartially. That's when you knew, and you admitted this conflict of interest. You can say a thousand times that it was completely impartial and based on a risk analysis, but you can't say you didn't know. Because you received a letter from the Prime Minister. And when something looks like a duck, it quacks like a duck and slaps its wings like a duck, it's just a duck, even if we're waving an independent risk analysis here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u39	Thank you, Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. Now, Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. And Prime Minister Bělobrádek will prepare himself. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Health and myself, I am often on the hook for making these personnel changes. And I think it might be appropriate to shed some light here. I must say that I completely agree with what my colleague from the Government said by the Minister of Culture, Ilja Šmíd, that this is indeed our role to manage our ministry and the directly managed organizations below us. There are 69 directly managed organizations under the Ministry of Health, 69 organizations that I have to run. Of which about 15 large hospitals. And I called off two directors. Well, I don't know if it's classified as some sort of personnel purge. Two others, Director of the SÚKL and Director of the State Health Institute, resigned of their will. The reasons were clear why I took those steps. I had reasonable information that there was something going on in those hospitals that wasn't okay. I cannot talk about all the information in detail right now, because some are subject to certain secrecy and I would violate the law if I were to report it here, but it also concerns the report on health corruption quoted by the Prime Minister here. In short, various groups still have influence in the Czech health sector and influence in some hospitals. With regard to the University Hospital in Ostrava, the information I received, and why I took that step, also my predecessor, Minister Ludvík, had from the employees of the hospital, who pointed out that the hospital was falling professionally, staffingly, that a number of fields had disappeared, internal disciplines, that the surgical clinic seemed to be performing in private laboratories where doctors also work - so those doctors who are in the hospital approve performances and samples are sent to a private laboratory where they are also employed. A flagrant conflict of interest that works in that hospital. And the director didn't care. He certainly knew about this, because after my step, many employees wrote to me and thanked me for the step that I had taken, that it was the right step, that the situation was unbearable, and they described the practices to me. I think, in time, these things will develop further, show up, maybe some criminal charges will be filed. But I don't think it's possible to wait. If this information is serious, I, as the Minister of Health, who is responsible for those directly managed organizations, must act. In my opinion, there is no doubt about that. I said that I'd keep checking hospitals, that I'd systematically check all hospitals, and I don't care who's nominated on what side. Indeed, there are members of various parties who are director of the hospital, in the past they have gotten there. But that's not what I'm worried about. I'm dealing with how this hospital works, how it manages, if it provides good care. And if I can find out from the checks that we have planned that there's a problem, then I'm going to deal with it in personnel, because it's really my responsibility. It's not a system thing. I understand that it can be criticized if there are systemic steps being taken, where this would lead to some change in the Czech health system. There we could say that it's probably not quite appropriate at this point. But when it comes to direct management by the organization for which the Minister is responsible, I think it's his responsibility and he has to deal with if there are any problems. So from this point of view, I think that this is completely legitimate, and I think that hospital employees are also happy that these steps have been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u41	Thank you, Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. Now, President Bělobrádek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, fellow Members, I would respond to what Vice-President Pikal has said here through you. I mean, the reason we're here is because we know that there's a voting machine and that the agenda of the meeting is probably not going to be approved. And we also wish that all Members could speak. I can say for KDU-ČSL that yes, that we want everyone to be able to step forward so that some members of the ANO movement do not have to be upset that they cannot speak when they themselves vote against doing so, because they are voting against the approval of the agenda of the meeting. But it's the only way to get off, at least for some of us, so we can say what we might otherwise say in a much wider spectrum. I'd like to draw attention to everyone in this room and to the TV screens that several argument fouls have been used here. No one here criticizes the fact that Mr Kučera, Mr Elkán, was specifically dismissed, that there were no reasons, etc., but that the government did it without trust. Yes, the minister is responsible, responsible for something, but also the government is responsible to someone. And he's supposed to have someone's trust. And this is the Chamber of Deputies. And there is a difference whether you have the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies or you have no confidence in the Chamber of Deputies. And that's what's going on here. The question is, Watson, quite simple. I have to say, for example. I understand that the Minister of Culture or the Minister of Foreign Affairs has spoken here. I think they're right that there haven't been any dramatic changes, I understand that, and there's no reason why they should be here defending their actions. I don't think anybody specifically named them here either. On the other hand, it really makes a difference whether you are a government minister with confidence or not. And especially if you're a government minister who didn't have a chance to get that trust, and it was obvious. About what the secretary of finance said. Well, you know, Mr. Deputy Závodský is a non-scorer, he's a blind man, he's a man who was awarded the Foundation Anti-Corruption Fund, your predecessor kept it there, Mr. Babiš kept it there. And if you had any personal disputes while the Civil Service Act saved you, he didn't. And the reasons I don't think we need to deal with here. But the truth is, he's considering suing. As far as the report on health corruption is concerned, yes, it is certainly a good thing that you mentioned it here. But by the same logic, I could pull an Olaf report here and say that there's a prime minister here who's being investigated and charged. Yes, they sent us a message from the European Union that clearly says he's a suspect in fraud, and that's why he should resign or not take up the prime minister's duties at all. With this logic. So when it suits you, you're shielding yourself with authority, and when it doesn't suit you, you forget it. And I don't think that's fair. I would also like to say that we have a very interesting situation in the Czech Republic. Again, the Minister of Agriculture mentioned a deputy for the economy and then mentioned IT. But the fact that he doesn't have a job for a deputy who was in charge of IT and who saved quite clearly and completely provenly hundreds of millions of crowns, who was an expert in practice, doesn't have a job. And the point is, my former deputy, and I understand that when the section was canceled, he quit. The Prime Minister likes to talk about speaking English, there were more people in the government who agreed in English, it wasn't just him - so the person who spoke English fluently, six years was in Cambridge, so I understand that his place was cancelled when the section was cancelled, but that he was offered a low-level position, a person who had worked at ministries before, because he is simply not interested in him, that is to think about it. I think if you really want experts, you don't treat people like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u43	That was Chairman Bělobrádek. The Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who is enrolled, will now appear. And that's all from priority rights so far. Then I'd vote on the agenda. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor. I've written so much, I think I'll start with Mr. Bělobrádek. Well, Kučera and Elkán were never supposed to be there. Never. That's a shame. Totally incompetent Elkan! He didn't understand at all when I asked him about the balance sheet, the profit and loss account, what an EBITDA, investment, cash flow, nothing. Unbelievable. And Kučera? The shame? I mean, now we have an important investment in BMW, and he's bringing me to the office of the Chief Representative of the BMW, and I don't know what he promised to do again, like at GE Aviation, and at the meeting, I'm going to find out that the state is here to pay about 600 miles. environmental burdens I don't know about. And he did the same trick with GE Aviation. That's where the GE Group people came in, that's the mega-fire, and this guy who didn't understand anything represented us. [[11.50 hours]] Mr. Bělobrádek, please, in English, yes. I speak mainly French, German and English. And when Mr. Fiala started his speech here, our Prime Minister spoke nothing but Czech. And the Macron, with whom he spoke four eyes two weeks ago at the European Council, does not speak Czech. Even Sebastian Kurz doesn't speak Czech, while we're at it. And please, Mr Belobrádek, I don't want to say that you're lying, you may have forgotten, but I have in my hand the resolution of the Second Session of the National KDU-ČSL Conference of October 27, 2017. Point 3. The KDU-ČSL National Conference approves the departure of KDU-ČSL into the opposition. Voting time: 66, versus 1, delayed 5. So what are you guys talking about? You never wanted to act. You said immediately that you were going into opposition, and now you're just doing politics and talking about criminally prosecuted. On order. I don't want to say they want it. Then stop lying. Here you have it written. You never wanted to deal with us. Why are you talking about political cleansing again? What political cleansing? You're telling me I'm incompetent? Of what? Also that your profession was to run science and research, where you didn't do anything? I've done more with Havlíček in the past few weeks. And go ask questions about the advice. We've been sitting three times. And we've done an analysis of the centers and we've done overlays of programs, five six billion between TACR and MIT etc., so please don't tell me I'm incompetent. I have a pretty rich history in my life, so I'm pretty competent. And I've also started some anti-corruption movement here that has something behind it. Well, I think I'm quite competent. And you're talking about disbanding the House? Well, design it. You want an early election? I don't have a problem with that. I like to be around people. I'll go again, morning to night. So I'd really like to... You speak unwritten rules. I don't know what unwritten rules are. What are unwritten rules? That the government isn't playing chess or acting, or whatever it is, unwritten rules? So please, let's really try to do the right thing. I don't want to get into the details here. I'd go back, take it from the bottom, to Mr. Kalousek. Our symbol of corruption and demagogy. He's talking about control? So this is the management control manual, and this is the public administrative control plan of Unit 17, control. [[shows papers]] What I did at the Treasury Department. And do you know how to check on Mr. Kalousek? Well, there was no plan! There was some Kuchyňa, head of department 17, and he called him and said, "Kitchen, you're gonna go check this out." And he also came, 2013, beginning, to the stork's nest. Have you heard of the Chap's čapí? Kalousek accidentally sent Kuchyňa over there. Check it properly! And do you remember when he was blackmailing Odessa here and taking advantage of the FAÚ against Vondra? ProMoPro? And he called the cops, and I don't know who he was when they took the liberty of investigating anyone. So he's gonna tell us how to control himself. I think it's been controlled impartially since I got here. And that's interesting, the GIBS, how you're all worried about that GIBS. Whatever. Are you nervous about this? From the GIBS? [[Applause from the left and center side of the hall.]] I don't want to deal with the GIBS. And I'm telling you right after the Security Council meeting in the presence of the Attorney General and the two Attorney Generals, this man is a big problem and he should never have been there. And if you don't believe me, why don't you go to the Security Committee and let everyone hear what the Attorney General has written that Mr. Sobotka didn't want to read or hear, and the reporter got lost. And Mr. Kalousek here says why me. Here's an argument that the office of the Republic. And what do I have with the Republic's office? GIBS is legally under my authority, I am responsible for him, I suggest and name him. So GIBS has never been checked, it was created on January 1, 2012. And what does the GIBS internal audit of the director say? Well, maybe there's been a breach of public procurement law. And who voted me out of the government twice when we talked about the budget, and I said, teachers have 23 grand, and GIBS has 55 and they've outvoted me and we've given them extra money? And out of the 51 million he was supposed to use the money to recruit new members, 20, so he used it to reward? Thirty million rewards paid for 2017, the standard reward was 13 million. Is that what you want to talk about? I have letters for that. So it's not political. And GIBS, yes, is the product of the power distribution between the Veds and the ODS, when they fought for the police president. And that's why it's Langer's product, GIBS. And GIBS is an interior inspection, there's no difference. What Mr. Stanjura is saying here is just formal business. Homeland inspection was supposed to check the cops, and GIBS is checking the cops. And if it's some kind of law, poppy or something, it doesn't matter, it's irrelevant. So I say, I don't want to say anything more about GIBS. You're all worried about it, so go to the security committee. But as long as your people go into that file. He's in some kind of mode. And now, I don't know if they knew, but it would be good. And here I can only read what the Human Rights League report on the functioning of GIBS 2011 says: The main error lies in the inappropriate staffing of GIBS, especially the leadership itself. On page 5, we will read: The management of GIBS is made up of persons who are not only highly problematic in terms of their past and moral integrity, but as former police officers and colleagues of those to prosecute, or as former officials of past inspections, they are not independent. So I'm dealing with GIBS because under the law, GIBS is under me. And I have a problem with his management. The state's attorneys have a problem with the GIBS job, not me, and they've said it in public several times. And since Mr. Murín's gone, we've been reading that in the media. That was April 2017. I'll go back to the beginning. Mr. Fiala said we were unable to perform. I don't know where you got that idea, Mr. Chairman. I'm active, and I think... I was in Davos. Seventeen years no one's been there for the government. There is the greatest concentration of politicians on this planet. I'm acting. We have a clear plan to negotiate. That's what we agreed on, so I don't understand why you're saying I'm not negotiating and I'm not able to negotiate. I think it's one of my strengths to negotiate. But try to tell me, give me the recipe, because of course I'm an inexperienced politician, and I don't even know how to do it. Tell me the recipe how we should negotiate with you, so when Mrs. Udženija says on TV that we have to negotiate, Mr. Benda says we have to negotiate, and at our last meeting, I asked if you wanted to negotiate, and again you told us you didn't want to negotiate. Well, I guess I'll give it to you in writing, I don't know what to do anymore, or give us some cookbook, how to do it. And please learn to count too. Don't tell me we've been in remission for five months. Sobotkův's government resigned November 29, 2017 and our government joined December 13, 2017. So we've been there 86 days. That's not even three months. And of course, we can count it from Sobotkův's demise, that's 99 days. Then don't say five months, because it's not like that. [[12.00 hours]] So I'll be glad to... You're still talking about how much support we have here and how it's all arranged. And our government... Yes. I must have made a bad statement. I'm not saying she approves of the law. We say: we discuss the law and we treat it objectively regardless of whether it's a pirate or a pirát. We supported the SAO or church restitution or so on. I think we're acting like we're dealing with common sense. I still have to take a stand against what Mr Kalousek here said. I wasn't blackmailing anyone! I didn't threaten anyone. I didn't offer anything to anyone. And I didn't even say I was gonna call him off! Then stop lying already. I told Mr. Murín he didn't have my trust. And what I read, the papers that went missing, and by chance the secretary at the Office of the Government found them, it's a scandal for me! And that's it. So I wasn't blackmailing anyone. Don't say that. It's not true. I'd like to say to Mr. Chvojka that if I said that he was the one who pulled some clerks there, I'm not aware of that. And if I actually said that, I'm sorry about that, because that's not true. And all I thought was that the person who was responsible for the government office, and the government office, the rise in those officials, was dramatic, he dragged in different people. Different. Different. So I certainly wasn't thinking about Mr. Chvojka. And if it was somewhere, I really don't realize it, I'm sorry. And you, of course, inherited what you had there. It's not true, and I fundamentally reject it, and it's absolute stupidity that we would be investigating some membership of officials in the ČSSD. What kind of nonsense is that? I had a table of individual resorts presented because we are still being accused of increasing officials according to resorts according to individual coalition parties. And that's what I'm talking about. And there's another lie spreading. That's what I fundamentally refuse. It's not true! About Mr. Bartoš - the control, the Treasury Department, that's what we explained. I'm responsible for GIBS. And when the internal audit found out there was a violation of the law, the internal audit under the head of GIBS, I wrote because they were taxpayers' funds. And it's normal that when there's a controversy about the management, they ask for control. It's my duty. So the Prime Minister can't send checks wherever he wants. Yes, I can't. But GIBS is under me. So study it. There are no political reasons. And you can control us. You can control everything. You have an interpellation. You have committees. We gave up the committees. So help us out. And if you find anything inexplicable, or I don't know what, I'm ready. Please don't take credit for the DEA. We thought about it, and I left it there because I want to deal with it because it's a big problem. \because our children are really high on alcohol and cigarettes consumption in Europe. So it was very interesting here who lobbied everything for Mr. Vobořil. [[Noise in the right side of the hall.]] And I met these people, and we even agreed on a procedure. So it's not your fault. Originally and in several countries in Europe, this issue is under the Ministry of Health. And that we thought about it? Yes. Then we sat on it. We evaluated it and it stayed there. The same goes for the Rules of Procedure. Back then, you were screaming: a threat to democracy, because every law had a press release written on it that was not used. Crazy bureaucracy. We've actually kind of humanized it. That's all. Nomination law - okay, let's bring him in. I presented it. Only there was such a small mistake for traditional parties that a Member and a Senator should not sit in a state firm after the end of the mandate. Well, I guess they didn't like it, so it didn't work. Well, if you bring it, I'm sure we'll be glad. We have applied strongly and politically. No one from the YES movement worked at the Treasury. There were no ANO nominations at the state companies below me. That's what I strictly held on to. And you're talking about the deputy? Yes, we inherited some Deputys. But they're all pros. Those were the clerks. Bärtl, Tlapa, I don't know what everyone's name is. In culture... Yes, we didn't have any lists of our people for the movement that needed to occupy any positions there. And we're proving it. Even this government, where there are nine non-members of the movement. So it is clear that we are sticking to this approach of politics. This is where Mr. Bartošek performed. It amused me that we were crashing an apartment or tearing down walls. We're just changing the housekeepers who mismanaged the housekeepers and miscleaned the housekeepers who took care of the apartment. So we're not hitting anything. So we switched out some housekeepers. I think there's been a lot of arguments here. And we were convinced that these people had nothing to look for there before we were in the government. Yes? Then Mr. Gazdík challenged me... But we don't take any irreversible steps. We're even doing a tender all over the place. So the pirát are also running a tender. We can put an ad if you want. I don't have a problem with that. We don't have any sides knocking at a post office somewhere in the post office or whatever. So I admit, yes... And it's not true that we don't want that trust. We want her, the trust. We do. We do. But remember how you've been treating us since the parliamentary elections. What have you been up to since the parliamentary elections? Well, the composition of the Houses. But most of all, the mandate, the immune committee, especially the stomping nest and the chairman of the committee! And that's where they all found it. Mr. Kalousek. Mrs. Němcová. They wanted to be there. Then why didn't you bring proof of the fraud that doesn't exist? Why? You guys got in. Michálek was there. Everyone was there. No? That's what you were wondering! You weren't interested in the sněmovna. And we had a deal with the ODS. You wanted Klaus to go to school and Mrs. Černochová to go to security and Mr. Benda to... That's what you wrote, isn't it? [[Ambassador Faltynek smiles and nods.]] He wrote it all down. And then we were all supposed to meet and shut it down. Well, the Democratic bloc came along and you tore everything down. Well, remind yourself. Oh, yeah. [[Reaction in the right side of the hall.]] You say we're not negotiating. Give me the cook how to deal with you. I think I'm stupid, I can't do it, so write it down, the cook! Yeah? Imagine I'm a robot. I'm gonna stick something in here, some chip, and I'm gonna deal with you. I don't know what. At the first meeting, Mr. Fiala asked you, this is Faltýnek: What about the Ministry of Education? [[Unintelligible]] Minister? No. Hahaha. No. And that's it. Then don't say we didn't want to act. We wanted to act. And when some parties tell us we're going to act, but without Babiš, well, at least for now, it might change in a while that the movement won't want me, but you know it's hypocritical and you don't want to. [[with laughter]] All you're saying is coalition and SPD and KSČM and so on. So I'm sorry, but it's not true. So I, Mr. Gazdík, admit that this government is not supposed to take irreversible steps without trust. But we don't take irreversible steps. If someone goes to the post office and then you're in the government and you don't like it because you don't want to get IT jobs, you're going to trade them. So it's about the housekeeper, but not the walls. What? So I admit there's a difference. Yes. But the Constitutional Court made it clear that we should not take irreversible steps. And the steps we take are all reversible. Except I'm hoping we can get you through raising pensions and investment plans and things that people are interested in. [[12.10 hours]] You guys are just getting on with your politics that we have to argue here again today, people are sick of it again. This is unbelievable. I forgot about Mr. Farský, actually. [[Laughter in the ranks YES.]] Wait, I still have to get my notes here. Yes. Atmosphere, Mr Farský. The company's breakdown. Well, why is that? I don't know why that is. Why is there such hatred here? Why is it all divided here? Do you know when it came from? After the first presidential election between Zeman and Schwarzenberg. That's where it came from. And you say you're Democrats, so why don't you accept it? There were also free elections here, and we won them. Yes, we didn't, we don't have a majority, and we want to make a deal with the government. But who's doing the company breakdown here, who's still pissing off here? The different choices of yours, the Mitrofanov you quoted twice. He's crazy! He's completely finished with Babiš being born! [[Laughter and applause for members of the YES.]] But let him go complain to Mečiar or Klaus, he was sitting there yesterday. Why did they divide Czechoslovakia? Well, I would never stand here in my life! [[Fun.]] Klaus and Mečiar caused me to be here. That's where the beginning was. And why is decay? And why are these people demonstrating? Against whom? Against me? Make sure you write that down. I wasn't an agent! It wasn't! And I won the trial! [[He didn't win!]] And that Czech TV... No! How many years did it take you to uncover the volumes of St.B.? Fourteen years! And how many volumes have you destroyed? Twenty-five thousand! So study it, folks! Twenty-five thousand! [[Speech of disapproval from the right.]] You're telling me I'm an agent. And I wasn't an agent! I had three emigrants in my family, and my dad didn't have career moves. So stop insulting me and lying to me. And I filed a summons, and I'm gonna win that trial again! You guys are pissing me off and all these affairs, and this is just the next step. Demise. People don't even know what a demise is. Call it pleinmis, we're doing our best. Plein's full, and the demi's half French if you don't recognize it. So pleinmise, demise. And you'll keep saying that, resignation. But you didn't say for Topolánek that he was in remission, nor did our famous media still say demise, demise, demise. But we're doing our best and we're trying and we're negotiating. So, please, give me the cookbook, how we're supposed to negotiate with you, and we're ready. Mr. President criticized me yesterday, too, so we need to take two, and we're gonna do our best. [[Laughs of Members YES.]] Our point is to have a stable government here so we can finally do something for people. That's why we go to these parts and mark it. And we're gonna set up this mega-investment plan for our country and put it back where it was! Read my vision - chapter two. Thank you. Bye!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u45	Mrs Lucie Šafránková has been apologizing since 12.10 even on the day of the hearing. With priority rights are registered by the lords of the chairmen in the following order: Kalousek, Stanjura, Michálek, Bělobrádek. Mr. Kalousek, please. [[Laughter in the ranks YES.]] You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u46	Thank you for the floor. I understand your laughter, colleagues, but it's unresponsive. I will at least try to respond to disprove or deny the two obvious lies that have been said here. Both of them can be proved. The first lie is that prior to 2014, risk control and risk analysis plans were not implemented at the Ministry of Finance. We did it! They performed for me, performed for Minister Janota before, performed for Minister Sobotka. If you or Minister Fischer have erased or had electronic footprints erased before you, it is not my problem, but I am ready to bring in enough witnesses at any time to remember and to testify that plans for checks and risk analysis have been carried out. [[♪ You are ♪]] It is not true, then, that they were introduced by the Minister of Finance Babiš. Lie first. The second lie has been spoken by the Prime Minister for at least the fourth time, and I am fascinated by the fact that he still has the courage to repeat it, that in 2013, the Minister of Finance sent a purposeful check on the Cape Nest: find something at all costs on the Babiš. That's what he told us on the mandate and immune committee, that's what he said in the papers, but that's just nonsense. The year 2013 belongs to the decisive period when Minister Babiš, not the Minister at the time, claimed that he had absolutely nothing to do with the Hive and that he didn't know who it belonged to. And only he, his lawyers, and his family knew that it belonged to him. And none of them really ratted me out! So I couldn't send a check to čapí's nest, find something on this Babiš guy because I had no idea it was his. He's the only one who knew that, and by doing that, he's actually admitting that he owned it when he said that. You, Prime Minister, are able to deny one lie you told yesterday and do the same tomorrow. I would just at least recommend that you be consistent in lying. And the third thing is, of course, whether or not you're a state security agent. You are! The only legitimate institution that can say and record this is the Institute of National Memory, which is... [[Prime Minister Babiš: Court. The court is, not the Institute of Memory of the Nation.]] The National Memory Institute, which is authorized to do so, rightly records you as a State Security agent under the code name Bureš. You're our Alois Jirásek, Prime Minister. He was also in 12 volumes at least. [[Laughter from the right.]] And you just can't be angry that we're saying that the Czech government is headed by a former aesthetic, because you were the former aesthetic, so at least you're proud to admit it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u47	Mr Stanjura will be next. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u48	Thank you for the floor. Sometimes it is difficult to respond to such a pel-mel, so I quite surprisingly for the Prime Minister in resignation - he doesn't like it, so I will say it - I will not talk about StB, nor about Slovakia, nor about the Chap Nest, I will return to the basic, which I have performed with for the first time. [[entertainment]] We're totally missing each other in this debate. Even the proposed resolution on what any government should not do without trust or resignation. And now you're saying, except that we don't understand each other in this, Prime Minister, because Chairman Fiala has to run the meeting and can't get to the microphone, let's hear it well when he says we can't negotiate, it was a criticism towards the former government. You can verify it later, but Chairman Fiala asked me to say it. It wasn't targeted at you. [[Prime Minister Babiš: I'm sorry.]] It wasn't targeted at you. So let's argue about what we're going to say and what we really mean, and I think we can close it. Now, about the search for program matches. I'm saying for us that we're just not going to create expert teams for a program match with the communists and the YES, because it doesn't make any sense. Us and the communists, that's an empty set. And if you have program teams with communists, and we've told you honestly, there's no room for us there, and we're not going to be part of the hunt for the cheapest coalition partner. There's nothing wrong with that, and we've been trying to honestly explain to you that we don't have a mandate from our constituents to support a monochrome government, yes, or a government looking for a program agreement with the communists. And when I said we were missing this debate, it's when we say that the government should be restrained, it's not at all, and that's very important, defending and protecting specific people. It's not! The Prime Minister here named three names: the head of the post office, CzechInvest, and now I don't know who the third one was - and the boss of GIBSu. Let's face facts. When did these people come into office? In the last term of office. Who was the government party, among other things, the second strongest? The YES movement. So all three of them came into their positions, which you're talking about, at a time when we were in opposition. And here's the problem again. In my opinion, Andrej Babiš understands the government as follows: The CEO of the Czech Republic is headed by 14 or 15 professional directors who are responsible for his particular section - social affairs, health care, finance, and this is how I could name all ministers. [[12.20 hours]] But that's not how the Constitution is built. The government decides in the choir. For every government decision... [[The Prime Minister's objections off the microphone.]] The Prime Minister at the resignation says it's wrong. There's the Chancellor's system. When we have the chancellor's system, let's talk about it. We're talking about the Czech Constitution. And today, the Prime Minister is acting as if he were in opposition during the last parliamentary term. This would be entirely justified, for example, by a personnel decision. But he's criticizing himself. And let's say, and I understand, it has a coalition partner, it's not easy to enforce within the coalition. I understand all that, we've also been sitting in coalition governments, so believe me, I understand this very well. But I've looked into our stew records. During the last term of office, it is true that the YES movement has taken the initiative in the Chamber of Deputies to address the situation in the Czech Post. They used such a critical institute of extraordinary meeting today. They called an emergency meeting and we were ready to vote in favour of the program because logically the opposition wants to control the government, the Ministry of the Interior including the subordinate Czech Post. The meeting was opened on 1 October 2015. Old-fashioned Members know when it ended. But a quiz question for the new members of the Chamber of Deputies: Do you know when the meeting was concluded? Never! Never! As part of the coalition's peace of mind, there were a few priority performances here, then it was interrupted, and that's it. Those points were named Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the current situation of orders in the Czech Post, and there was the director with no confidence, whom the Minister called off without confidence, and the second item was the Proposal for the establishment of the Committee of Investigation of the Chamber of Deputies and so on. If the YES movement were to be serious, it could have pushed the agenda for this meeting with opposition, it could have proposed a resolution, perhaps even a committee of inquiry. But since it didn't work out for coalition, domestic and political reasons, the colleagues here did those, you, you, we called a meeting, and then somewhere in the back we agreed that the meeting would never be held and it wouldn't end. So how are we supposed to listen seriously to "and mail, it's a scandal, the director, it's a scandal"? Yeah, maybe you're right. But that director was appointed under your government and you are from October 2015 until the end of the term of office of October 2017, that is in two years, 24 months, they were not willing to discuss this issue on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. So don't complain about us. And we protect institutions and we don't protect specific people. All the names that fell came into office during the previous government of ČSSD, YES - YES was not in opposition, YES was in government, to be clear - and KDU. We have to be fair. And I think you'll confirm that we've been gazing and performing proper constructive opposition functions against all three members of the coalition. So the criticism is actually in its own ranks. Don't call us that. Note that we do not use in our argument the personnel changes made by Sobotkův's government after it gained the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. And now we can vote for verbs - she agreed to leave, accepted resignation, fired, cleaned up many people who came into office during our reign. Yes, we don't talk about it because it's the right of government to trust, and we respect that principle, and it doesn't matter whether we're in government or in opposition. That's why I say we miss the debate. The Prime Minister says that the government is not taking irreversible steps, but is going to one, at least one. And it's in the foreign policy area. I was glad that we, together with the YES movement, prevented the ratification of the fiscal pact or the fiscal compact during the last term of office. Yes, we prevented it together, the ODS and the ANO movement, and we were happy to find the same argument or a similar argument, we prevented it. Now the Prime Minister is going to Brussels twice, he is a European statesman and he is already presenting a fiscal-compact for ratification. This could be a reversible step, and it is one of the things the government should not do without trust. If the government puts it in trust, it has every right to do so, it is fully legitimate and... [[Prime Minister Babiš from the government bench: We are the last in Europe.]] But we're right. We're the last ones in Europe, but we're right. Let us remember the very common and very legitimate criticism of Andrej Babiš against Brussels. And in that we agree on many things. The argument that we're the last has no meaning. We are not supposed to decide whether we are the first, the second, the third, the fourth, the twenty-eighties, without Britain the twenty-seventh, but we are to decide whether or not it is important and beneficial to the citizens of the Czech Republic. And we're sure you don't. So it doesn't matter who we're in order. That's the spirit of the opposition. We judge the laws, the contracts by what's inside, and not if anyone's reprimanding us that we're the last, second to last, or the first. There's no point. And then I'd like to ask the Prime Minister, and now I won't use the resignation, I'd really like to ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Babiš, not to join the personal attacks on specific journalists. You just named a commentator in your speech. You personally attacked him. It's pointless. Believe that all of us sometimes feel wronged, that they don't write the truth, that they don't. That can happen. But don't join me, Prime Minister, with those who do. It's not right. And if you speak as Prime Minister in the Chamber of Deputies, please don't do this. It's not good. And when we talk about the distribution of society, it really divides society. And in my personal opinion, it's also very dangerous. And I'm just saying that the journalist you were talking about, I'm not gonna say the name here, he's a leftist commentator, so I can't be accused of being a person who's very close to right-wing politics or our programming points and our programming priorities. It's really not like that. But that's not the point. I think it's pointless and that we should all forgive each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u49	Thank you. I'll just introduce you to whoever's next logged in. President Michálek, President Bělobrádek and Prime Minister Babiš. Mr. Chairman Michálek has the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear to the public, I'm just going to pick up the previous speaker briefly. I don't think ODS and KSČM have any program penetration. When we think about how the extension of the contract register was discussed, the ODS and KSČM agreed perfectly there. But now about that point I wanted to get off with. It will be a brief factual response to the Prime Minister who spoke of the nomination law. And it is basically one of the few things that concerns today's negotiations, because today's negotiations are taking place on personal changes in the institutions to which the government has an influence. So we will listen to the Prime Minister's wishes, and I would like to use it to introduce our nomination law, which regulates appointments, selection of persons to the management and control bodies of legal entities with the state's ownership participation, and also regulates the state's own policy. After all, which has already been unsuccessfully discussed by the government. I trust you'll like the law. It even regulates that the transparent nomination procedure would apply to persons who are appointed by the government to the General Health Insurance Corporation and to resort insurance companies. So I'll give it to you now, Prime Minister. [[He's handing the file over to the Prime Minister.]] You wanted us to work, so here's the law, and we can continue to discuss it. The last thing I wanted to say is that I find it really inappropriate for priority rights to be heard here over and over again before the real debate begins. That I think we should work this out in a systematic way. This is especially because everyone, of course, is afraid that some political parties will block the approval of the agenda. I think that democracy includes the fact that the government also listens to opinions that it does not agree with, and that the negotiations should be conducted and his programme should be agreed. The vote on the agenda should not be used to simply block it. If we manage to establish such a political culture in which the largest political party will give its votes to discuss the points that the opposition will bring to the extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I believe that we can avoid the endless sequence of preferential rights before and after the negotiations themselves. I think it would greatly improve the parliamentary culture here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u51	Thank you. From 12.30 pm to the end of the day, Mr Petr Třešňák apologizes because of the impossibility of attending the debate without prior rights. [[Weak applause from the right side of the meeting room.]] From 12.45 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Lubomír Hrnčíř apologizes for working reasons, and the same reason and the same time was stated by Mr Jan Španěl. The President of Bělobrádek is next with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u52	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, fellow Members, Mr Babiš has again demonstrated what I said a moment ago. We don't listen to each other. I do not comment on whether Mr Kučera or Mr Elkán were suitable candidates and whether they should have been there. I have my own opinion of them, too. I don't stand up for their work. The whole debate is about the principle of what the government should and should not do in demise. Even though he's entitled to it from the Constitution. It is very clear that Mr. Kurz and others do not speak Czech. I know that, Mr. Babiš. Mr. Kurz, Merkelová, Juncker, Orbán and I have lunch several times a year. I speak to them informally several times a year. But the problem is that there are officials who are really competent, they're language equipment, but the state administration doesn't want them for you. As far as the national conference is concerned, I'm not lying, Mr. Babiš. The fact that we agreed at a national conference that we were going to the opposition is true, and it was because the President of the Republic said that you would be Prime Minister. And we said not that we would not be in the government with Babiš. The word Babiš never sounded. This, in turn, is a question not of personnel, but a question of principle. We wouldn't be sitting with Liberty either, and if they were charged, neither Kalousek, nor Sobotka, nor Fiala. It's a question of principle. And when you talk to those mentioned at the European Council, ask them if it would be possible for them to be appointed Prime Minister for a person who has such a problem. And I never said that you stole anything and that you were guilty. It's not my place at all. I honor the presumption of innocence. So let's be clear about this. We were ready to act and we had our terms. The condition has obviously not been met, but we have come to discuss with you whether you will be Prime Minister, if you cannot change it. So don't tell me we didn't want to act. That's a lie. We have not met, our mutual positions have not met, but it is not true that we did not want to act, and we were ready to discuss the accession to the government with the ANO movement. But your words in the Young Front are clear. You said you never considered the KDU-ČSL coalition. So don't tell the truth here. Likewise, your senior officials said on the day of the election that they did not want to continue the coalition with the ČSSD and KDU-ČSL. Why do you keep confusing the public here? It's not true. It's also true that I have to clearly turn against it - I understand that your ego is very high, that you look forward to having a bust in the Capitol when you build statues when you're in the counters when the other presidents bow to your grave. I understand. We all have egos. But to say that you did more in three months than I did in four years, that's the expression of the incompetence. Because I'm convinced you don't know what I was doing there. And your statements about knowing that none of this falls out of it, that it's incomprehensible to you - and I'm not going to say everything you said because it doesn't fit here because those words weren't polite, but vulgar. So I can show you if you want, but I know you don't want to, because you know everything best in the world, that I thanked the Škoda Auto management for my work, for what I've done in the last four years, that I appreciate what I've done for the Czech industry, that there was foam praise on what I did for applied research, that can say that he did more in three months, just a person who doesn't really know what he's talking about, or it's just an expression of his hatred and hatred for a particular person, to me. I don't hate you, Mr. Babiš. But I think it's very good for us to be straight with each other. So the fact that you're questioning the fact that I didn't do anything there, or almost nothing, is really an expression either that you haven't introduced it yet, and I don't blame you for that, you're there briefly, and you've had very bizarre ideas about it based on your statements, and as long as it's just an expression of personal resentment towards me. And I don't want to speculate why it is, but I think it's completely unnecessary, because I've never done anything wrong to you. So I think we need to look at objective facts. What has been done in RIS3 strategy, in national innovation platforms, is that a new assessment is being prepared that is an international council. It was all when I was there. And the officials that I brought there in your opinion, because it was not only Chvojka, but also Bělobrádek, so the vast majority of them were people who worked elsewhere in official functions, and there was also some delimitation. For example, RIS3 strategy was transferred from the Ministry of Education. And RIS3's strategy meant 70 billion at least from European funds. I understand your Young Front was still writing that I was threatening them. In doing so, everything has been negotiated with the European Commission and money can be drawn. So to talk about not doing anything there or almost doing anything, I take it as a personal attack. I'll live, but I think it's useless. That it's really pointless, because I've never been personal. If you say you don't know what unwritten rules are, I certainly don't want to lecture you. I have respect for people who are a generation older than you who have done something in life. You think I've never done anything in my life. Okay, I can accept that. I don't think so, but more people don't think so, for example, management of škodovka, but okay. Such unwritten rules, Mr. Babiš, for example, are rules of decent conduct. That at the top of the coalition meeting, you don't send a Slovak vulgar to the sex organs, that you don't tell Angela Merkelová about the government that she's crazy, that Juncker has those tendencies that she drinks and doesn't go to work. I think these are statements that really are not meant to be said among the unwritten rules. And I'm sure you're not doing the same with the government objectively, as you said. Like those church restitutions - did you ever read what the opinions of the attorneys of the various departments were? That it's likely to be in conflict with the Constitution? You're contradicting yourself! So we're not giving you any instructions on how you're supposed to treat us. I recommend authors: Guth-Jarkovský or former ceremonyary of Václav Havel. [[A voice from the diaper:]] I believe that we certainly cannot give you evidence in criminal matters. If we had any evidence, we wouldn't be bringing it to the committee, we wouldn't be carrying it to you, but we would hand it over to the law enforcement authorities. So I would ask, and I really do not want to continue any confrontation in personal matters, I do not need it, but I would like to ask you as a younger, less experienced person who hasn't done it in your life - it is also true that you are such a Czech dissident, because at a time when people were sitting here in prison because they wanted democracy, freedom and business, so you studied abroad. So it's true, with all the humility, that I'm really not as great as you. And I admit it, it's true, and I mean it without any irony. Then I suggest you stop attacking me personally. I promise you that I will try to make - as I used to, I would never be personal. But please don't use really aggressive untruths against me here. I'm sure I can live with it, but I have a family, too, and they don't mind. And it's also not a dignified role as Prime Minister. However I do not agree with the way in which this government governs and how it was created at all. Ask Mrs Merkelová, Mr Kurz, Mr Orbán. Well, I talk to them a lot. So ask them if in their countries it would be possible for them to be appointed as Prime Minister if they were charged with an economic crime. [[12.40 hours]] So I suggest you make a personal peace here publicly, and I will try to keep it as much as possible. Because I don't think personal attacks are political. Let's talk really business, let's talk about what this republic needs. It needs pension reform, it needs tax reform, it needs public administration reform, it needs to shift substantially in other conditions. And above all, we need - what do you say I didn't design any law? We need those laws less! We have so many laws that even lawyers don't know about them anymore! And the fact that you're spouting one law after another, also with the thousands or tens of thousands of employees as Secretary of Finance. Did you write them all yourself? Don't be ridiculous. There's no point. On the contrary, we need the rule of law to be simpler, clearer, and also that the courts are not alibis and decide not only by letter, but by the spirit of the law. And on this we are ready to actually cooperate also from the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u53	Thank you. For the correct wording of the tapestry, I note that the names of the Members whose apologies I have last read correctly are Lubomír Španěl and Jan Hrnčíř. I changed their first names. Sorry about that. Another registered priority right is Prime Minister Babiš. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u54	Thank you for the floor. Well, Mr. Bělobrádek, you say personal attacks don't belong in politics. And who started it today? Who said I was incompetent? You said it first. So stick to it. I'm not through, I'm here. [[Laughter and applause from members of the club YES.]] You said I was incompetent -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u55	I'm sorry, Prime Minister. Just for the record, since questions are repeatedly raised here, I note that Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure imposes an obligation to refer only to Members through the President. Members of the government and members of the government may be contacted directly. [[Prime Minister Babiš: Well, you see, I remember it well.]] I think it's obvious. Mr. Chairman, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u56	So you said I was incompetent. I just said I had some knowledge of the council, and that's it. I don't want to talk about it anymore. I don't have any grudges, I don't feel anything, I'm fine. You're saying you're not personal, so why do you say I studied abroad? Do you know how long I studied there? A year. And you know why I didn't graduate? Because after my background checks in '69, I had to come home so my parents wouldn't emigrate. So don't be personal, don't tell me. Yes, I studied for a year. Then I had to come back and I didn't graduate. Then let's not be personal. I certainly don't want to be personal. And you started, I reacted, and it's over for me. And I'm sure I'll try to avoid it. Mr. Stanjur. I beg you, I'm not attacking journalists. I like Mr. Mitrofanov. His hatred for me. I'm really enjoying this, this twitter bubble, how they write and how they insult me. I don't have a problem with journalists. And I can forgive, I'm above things. Imagine I'm going to that Moravc on Sunday. He's been on me for two years. Even in the final debate, I got a lens. No, I forgave him, and I'm going there. And I'll discuss it with him. I like Czech TV and journalists. I don't have a problem with that. So don't tell me I have a problem here. I don't have a problem. I've changed and I'm over it. And I say we must forgive our enemies. [[He's laughing. Laughing across the hall.]] And please, Mr. Stanjur, you are an incredible demagogist. Because the fiscal pact, what is it? It's nothing. How does that affect us? We are today a model in Europe in terms of management and surpluses and debt. I'm lecturing it at the European Council when we were sitting there. So I told those prime ministers and the presidents. We were talking about the budget. They're all - and what's it gonna cost? I say - and, folks, what about the taxes and the reverse charge? I played my reverse charge there again. And now I've been writing to President Macron about reverse charge. Because France is blocking us. So the fiscal pact doesn't mean anything. It's just that we're applying to be budgetaryly responsible. And that's it. And we in Brussels want them not to give us quotas, we are fighting against quotas, we are fighting against migration, we want us to be able to determine our own funds money. We just texted Commissioner Cret that we have 11 billion that we need to move. And now I've dealt with Česmad, and we want our truck drivers not to be handicapped, so there are no restrictions against us. So we want a lot of things from Brussels, and this little thing doesn't matter. We don't want to be trouble makers. So the fiscal pact has no effect on anything, and it's just that we're the last. And you know it, so I don't know why you're talking about it. So I'd like us to tell each other how it is. And Mr. Michálek, who threw me the law, thank you. I'm sure we'll read it, and if it's okay, we'll definitely support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-09-ps2017-008-01-000-000.u57	I don't have any more prior rights applications, and I don't even see anyone claiming priority rights. Therefore, I recall that according to § 54 para. 7 The House shall now decide on the agenda for the meeting referred to in the request. I remind you that the draft agenda for the meeting is the Personal Changes that the government is making without trust. We will therefore now vote on the agenda for the eighth meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as submitted in writing. [[Sounds like a sound gong.]] I call on Members from the foyer. I'm registering an interest in check-out. I'm shutting you all out now. I beg you to re-enlist with your ID cards. Now the Chamber of Deputies is ready to vote on the proposed agenda. Initiating vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It's vote number three. 154 Members are registered, for 59, against 4. The motion was denied. Madam Members, we have discussed the agenda for the eighth session of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am ending with this. I remind you that the seventh meeting of the Chamber of Deputies is adjourned until 20 March 2018 until 14 pm when we meet again. Have a nice weekend.
