ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-004-034.u1	34. Government bill amending Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service, as amended, and other related laws / House printing 132/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Interior Minister Lubomír Metnar. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-004-034.u2	Thank you. Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. The aim of the proposal is to create conditions for greater efficiency and operationality of the state and foreign services as well as of the state administration as a whole. I'll zoom in on the proposed changes. Change in the modification of the selection procedures for opening the competitions to the categories presented to the wider range of persons. The first rounds, compared to the current situation, will be able to be attended in principle by all employees in the organisational units of the state meeting the relevant conditions. Second rounds then, in principle, all employees and other persons from the public and private sectors meeting the relevant prerequisites, in particular a certain type and length of practice. [[It's busy in the hall.]] In addition, a rule is introduced that a selection procedure is always held for the occupation of the vacancy of the Deputy Minister for Civil Service, the Secretary of State, the Head of State Office, the Head of Management of the Section, the Director of the Section and the Personnel Director of the Civil Service Section. A further change consists in the fact that the person who served as a civil servant at the place of employment, after the termination of the service at that place of employment, is regarded as a person who fulfils the conditions for participation in the selection procedure for the place of employment presented at the same or lower stage of the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-004-034.u3	Minister, I'm sorry. I ask the Members of Parliament for peace and quiet, so that we can hear the Government's bill as it is presented to us by the Minister. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-004-034.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Next, editing the evaluation system. This provision includes, first of all, the introduction of five possible results of the service evaluation instead of the current four and the possibility of carrying out an exceptional service evaluation on the initiative of the Service Office or of a civil servant. The majority of civil servants will serve as an appeal to the service evaluation. The role of the immediate superior in the service evaluation shall also be strengthened. The evaluation of senior leaders will now be discussed with the Service Authority. The performance of the service evaluation will also be possible to delegate to the superiors, thereby removing the service bodies. Another change. Possibility of appeals presented even in the case of sufficient results of the service evaluation. The performance will be cancelled if it achieves one of the two worst possible results on the five-point scale proposed, not only in achieving unsatisfactory results, but also in achieving sufficient results. Another proposed change. Limitation of the number of civil service branches for the civil servant's post. It is now proposed to limit the number of fields of public service laid down for a single service post to three branches of public service, or four branches of public service in the case of a position presented. Further clarification and proposed amendment. Obligation to carry out an official examination when changing the field of service. It is still confirmed not entirely clear that the relevant part of the administrative examination needs to be carried out within 12 months not only when taking part in the public service, but also when changing the field of public service. [[12.50 hours]] Another proposed effective change - the possibility of a faster wage procedure for civil servants. It is now possible to assign ordinary civil servants and presented without a tender to a post of employment in a grade of one grade higher in the case of excellent results obtained after two consecutive service evaluations. In conclusion, the exclusion of the possibility of a civil servant to refuse to perform his/her duties in the event that his/her duties fall within the scope of the organisational service to which he/she is assigned. Until now, a civil servant has the right to refuse a service task outside his field of public service. The draft law also contains changes of a legislative technical nature, minor terminology and takes account of changes made in other legislation. This proposal was, of course, also discussed with the Commission of the European Union, when the Commission requested additional documents, stated that it would continue to monitor the proposed amendment, and had not yet taken a final position on the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-004-034.u5	Thank you, Minister, and please let the rapporteur for the first reading take the floor. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-004-034.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add, in my speech, to the Minister of the Interior in particular. I will not repeat what has been said here. I consider it important to stress that the submitted amendment to the Civil Service Act no longer contains a media-based regulation of direct subjection to the head of state service to the Prime Minister. This means that this part is not included in the amendment, and the government has abandoned it when discussing this bill. Similarly, the amendment does not include the head of the State Service being the Directorate-General of State Services at the Office of the Government. This means that the status quo remains preserved, so at the Ministry of the Interior we have an independent section of state service headed by an independent head of state service. Similarly, the amendment does not contain the possibility of hacking the highest level of state service management with the possibility of introducing the rescindability of the Deputys. This part was also released during the preparation and discussion of the amendment. In the next amendment, I refer to what was said by the Minister of the Interior. As rapporteur, I would only like to draw attention to the fact that the issue of extending the range of persons who may participate in the selection procedures to be presented will certainly be assessed in the context of the discussion as to whether the career principle within the public service is still being maintained and therefore this principle is maintained from the point of view of the independence of the public service. The most sensitive change is undoubtedly the question of changes in the service evaluation system. Here it must be announced that the Trade Union of Civil Servants expressed its greatest opposition to this section in particular, and it is also important to assess the extent to which the effective system of disciplinary measures and, indeed, the disciplinary committees, as envisaged by the Civil Service Act, will remain effective. However, from the perspective of me as rapporteur, nothing prevents this amendment from being released for second reading and discussed there. I believe that, in addition to the constitutional legal committee as a guarantee, it would be appropriate for the Social Committee to discuss this in terms of employees' rights, and I am giving consideration to whether, in view of the complexity of public administration, the Public Administration Committee too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-004-034.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. Mr Bartoš will be the first to speak with priority, followed by Mr Kupka. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-004-034.u8	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have watched in the previous parliamentary term how the Civil Service Act was passed, and we believe that this law should be corrected, on a number of points, to be amended. What we are not convinced of, however, is that we should approach the amendment of this law now, at the moment when we have already seen fundamental personal changes in ministries within the framework of the systematicisation and Christmas period, we see changes in the leading positions of important institutions in the Czech Republic, and now, in fact, in the individual offices, where at least those officials, and I am not talking about whether they are the best or the best at the moment, they have certain protection thanks to the actually valid Civil Service Act, in some way they have made it more effective for the possibility of simply saying the harm of their exchange. We have already criticized this proposal in the government's draft. Let us, therefore, forget the matter of the Directorate-General for Civil Service, where virtually nothing changed anyway, it remained budgetaryly and systematically under the Office of the Government. But the really big problem was that the ministries were already asking for such a survey during the pre-Christmas period, in fact, experience with the functioning of this law and the explanatory memorandum did not settle these comments and are not even known publicly unless you are looking a lot for the results of the inquiry between the various authorities of the state administration. At the same time, there was no longer than a weekly inter-ministerial procedure at the government or at the moment of the hearing. This law, of course, has an effect on the authorities under all ministries. The big problem is really the evaluation of the officials, and that said here as a benefit. But let's see how this works in reality. So the original evaluation was one to four. This means that you could just evaluate about 25 percent of people negatively, it doesn't work. If we extend the scale to one to five, when it doesn't actually meet four and five, then there's an increase in space for how I can grade so that the official doesn't succeed. If he fails in the evaluation, he has some time to correct himself. There was originally a longer period of 90 days, which shortens. Well, I don't know, but if I'm dealing with a complex problem and I get a complaint as well as my assessment that I'm not an executive officer enough, I don't know if I can do it in 40 days. I don't think that's due to the correction. And there's a lot of stuff like that. I just repeat that at this time, when we have far more important legislation, I do not think that it is right, and we also have a government in demise here, to just open this law and try to make it more effective in another way, at least according to the rhetoric of government representatives, to give it better passability to make everything work dynamically, within the scope of actually the sub-ordination. So we originally wanted to return, or to load the bill's motion to rework the government, at this point the attitude of the pirate club is a motion to reject it at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-004-034.u9	Thank you. I am therefore of the opinion that a motion has been put forward to reject the present law at first reading. At the same time, a proposal was made by the rapporteur to address this proposal by the Social Committee and the Public Administration Committee. I am saying this because, given that it is 12 hours 58 minutes, at this point, I am interrupting the discussion of this point. I'm ending the morning meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll meet you all at 2:30 and we'll continue with oral interpelations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-004-034.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, we have 14.30 hours, so we will proceed to our next agenda for today's meeting of the House of Deputies. The next item is oral questioning, which is addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, by the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. I see Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is already present. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn the ranking of Members in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14.30 to 16.00, to other members of the government from 16 to 18.00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I draw attention to all Members of the Government and to those who are intersected, that if the interpelling of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is exhausted, the intersecting of other members of the Government will immediately begin. Before I give the floor first, let me read the apologies. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek apologizes for the whole day for reasons of work, Mr Radek Zlesák apologizes from 14:45 a.m. to the end of today's meeting, Mr Jan Richter apologises between 14.30 and 20.00 for reasons of work, Mr Dolínek apologizes for this afternoon's meeting from 14 to 16 p.m. for reasons of work, and as the last one I have here is an apology from the first Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec for today's oral interventions, for reasons of work.
