ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-007-901.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 16 and 17 /house prints 48 and 49/ I'll ask who's applying. Mr. Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-007-901.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a reduction in the deadline for committee discussions from 60 to 30 days for both prints, that is 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-007-901.u3	Thank you. Mr. Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-007-901.u4	Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I hope I will not delay at this point as long as I did in the past. However, allow me to make about two or three comments. I will not suggest this time that we discuss this in the Constitutional Legal Committee, but rather I listened to the Minister. I have no doubt that these are the good intentions of the various European regulators. I don't know what your experience is that you still have in dealing with any, especially a large bank-type house, insurance company, operator and others to present other and other stacks of papers to inform you about what they're doing about you, how it's perfectly managed, how it's distributed... And now I've been listening to how we're gonna have some other lovely paper to say it's in the insurance, it's... I'm just pointing out that the final result is that people don't read any of this anymore, they just fill in a bunch of printed paper, and none of us have the capacity to study it after them. It's such an excellent doing of good, unintended consequences. But the result is that if you get six papers signed for each contract, where there is qualified consent to the processing of personal data, qualified consent to be able to manage it externally, qualified, qualified, qualified, just sign like that. None of us read it anymore. So I'm just wondering if we shouldn't wonder if it would be better to follow more common sense and less regulation of some European regulators who feel like they're going to commit a lot of good if we sign more and more papers. That's a general remark. And now I'm not questioning the directive or the Madam Secretary's proposal. I even think it's really good that there are qualified people and other things, I'm just saying that the result is then this. One question I have on the amendment law, which I would then ask, because the debates were merged, if it could be discussed more thoroughly on the committee. The amendment law assumes that, in the case of out-of-court dispute resolution, it will become competent to resolve an out-of-court dispute from non-life insurance, non-life insurance, financial arbitrary. So far, it is a financial arbitrary in life insurance cases and for non-life insurance policies it is the Czech Trade Inspection. For the reasons that the directive says, we have to have an out-of-court dispute resolution that I understand we don't want to go to the courts, because we know how the courts work for a long time, so it is said here for an unclear reason that it must be a financial arbiter, where, as far as I know and I have information, experience with a financial arbiter and the length of dispute resolution before it are not entirely ideal even in a situation where it has only a certain part of the market, and that part of life insurance. Up to now, it has worked as a mediator or as a non-beneficial dispute solver in non-life insurance areas, the Czech Trade Inspection and it is being transferred to a financial arbitrary. I think it would be worth considering whether this is a reasonable solution, if it is not better to leave it to the Czech Trade Inspection. I think we should at least have numbers in committee meetings that could convince us that business inspections aren't working the way the Ministry thinks, and the financial arbiter works much better, and if we put this whole agenda on it, it'll be much better. My findings, which I have so far learned from practice, are of a reversed nature and rather warn me that there could be an extension of disputes and their complexity for a normal client rather than their simplification. So this, please, should also be discussed in the negotiations on the amendment law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-007-901.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask if anyone else is reporting for the merged debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the merged debate. Now is the point
