ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 7th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 7th meeting on 15 February 2018. The invitation was sent to you on Friday 16 February t. r. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. At this point, I am told that my colleague, Mr Pražák, is voting with a replacement card number 4. We will be the first to vote on the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I will therefore ask you to settle in your seats and keep your voice down so that we can take this vote. Thank you. I propose that we designate Mr Jiří Valenta and Mrs Veronika Vrecionová as the verifier for this meeting. Does anyone else have a suggestion? He doesn't. In that case, I will ask you once again to sign up with the cards, because we haven't established the number of entries yet. [[He's waiting for a while.]] We will vote on two persons from the verifiers. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal. Who's against it? Voting number one. It's registered 132, 120, no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have designated Mr Jiří Valenta and Mrs Veronika Vrecionová as verifiers of the 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. With the replacement card number 6, Mr Pávek will vote. I also say that these Members of the Government have asked to apologise for their failure to participate in the negotiations. For reasons of health, Mr Jaroslav Bžoch, for reasons of foreign travel, Mr Alexander Černý, for reasons of health, Mrs Lenka Dražilová within 19 hours for reasons of work, Mr Jaroslav Foldyna for reasons of foreign travel, Mr Jan Hamáček until 15.30 for reasons of work, Mr Milan Chovanec for reasons of health, Mr Jan Chvojka for reasons of health, Mr Marian Jurečka for Balaštíková of work, Mr David Kasal for reasons of health, Mr František Kopřiva for reasons of foreign travel, Mr Roman Onderka for reasons of employment, Mr Zdeněk Podal for reasons of health, Mr Antonín Staněk for reasons of work, Mr František Vácha for reasons of employment, Mr Ondřej Veselý for reasons of family reasons, Mr Tomáš Vymazal for reasons of health. Member He made his apology clear that it applies to other working days. He'll be present today. Yes, so we wish for an early recovery. From members of the government apologizes Richard Brabec due to foreign travel, Jiří Milek for working reasons, Robert Plaga from 16.30 for working reasons, Martin Stropnickýý due to foreign travel, Ilja Šmíd due to foreign travel. And Mr Antonín Staněk states that he did not apologize, although his apology was read. It's some kind of administrative error. He also apologizes to Minister Jaroslava Němcová for working reasons today. With the replacement card number 6, Mr Mašek votes. With the replacement card number 2, Mr Kalous votes, with the replacement card number 8, Mr Feranec votes. We've dealt with apologies and spare cards. And I would now ask you colleagues to settle in your seats, because we would like to, as we agreed on the grémia that was sitting today, respond to the event that took place in Slovakia these days, where the murder of journalist Ján Kuciak occurred, and we would like to honor his memory with a minute's silence. Then I'll ask you to stand up. [[It's happening. After a minute of silence, the people present will return to their seats.]] And now we will proceed to the agenda of the 7th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. First, I'll introduce you to the suggestions of today's grémium. We propose the following procedure: On Wednesday, 28 February, the first item in the meeting will be discussed in item No. 7 of the draft programme, this is the House's press 32, the Senate's draft amendment to the Income Tax Act, first reading. At 14.30 on the same day, discuss point No. 2 the draft programme, which is the House Press 45, the government bill - water law, second reading. Consequently, as the second point No. 9 a proposal for a House Print 34 which is a parliamentary proposal for an amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interest, First Reading, and paragraph No. 8 a proposal for a programme, which is the House press 33, a parliamentary proposal to amend the same law, i.e. a conflict of interest, also in the first reading. On Friday, March 2nd, the first item of the meeting will be discussed in the voting point 55 of the proposal for a programme - the election of the President of the SK for the control of GIBS, thus abolishing his solid inclusion on Wednesday, March 7th, at 12.30. As the second item of the meeting discussing item 18 of the draft programme, this is the House Press 54, the draft of the council of the Pardubice Region, the amendment of the administrative order, the first reading. On Wednesday, 7 March at 14.30 pm discuss item No. 5 of the draft programme, this is the House Press 30, the Senate Bill on the Constitutional Court at first reading, and point 6 of the draft programme, that is, the House Press 31, the Senate Draft Amendment to the Act on Recording of Sales, first reading. [[14.10 hours]] Finally, I would like to inform you that, as President of the Chamber of Deputies, on Thursday, March 8, 2018, I convened the first joint meeting of both chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to make a pledge to the President of the Republic. For this reason, Thursday, March 8 will not be the seventh meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. That's all on my part for the moment. And I will now ask the Members of Parliament to comment on the proposal for a programme and to make possible proposals for additions. First of all, Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal is registered with priority rights. [[Member Pikal is not coming.]] ... So, by mistake, an application for another point. I saw with priority rights - President Bartošek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I request the inclusion of a new item called the Revocation of Tomio Okamura as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have collected the signatures of 86 Members. For KDU-ČSL 10, for TOP 09 7, for STAN six, for ODS 25, for Social Democracy 14, for YES 2 and for Pirates 22. The reason for this point is that some representatives of the SPD have repeatedly spoken brazenly about the suffering and victims of the Holocaust, whether the designation of the camp in Lety does not exist a pseudoconcentration, with the fact that around Lety there was a fence in which there were holes, that those who were imprisoned could move freely and freely. Just as the former secretary of the SPD, who is currently being investigated by the police, commented that Žid, Cikán, and homosexuals belong in the gas. I personally believe that the representative of the party representing these views cannot be in a high constitutional capacity and represent the Czech Republic in international negotiations. Personally, this behavior and expression is disgusting to me. For this reason, I propose that the negotiations be supplemented by the Revocation of Tomio Okamura from the post of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll hand over the signatures to you personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Jana Černochová is next on the agenda. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u4	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to ask you to remove item No. 33, Government bill amending Act No. 119/2002 Coll., on firearms and ammunition, it is the so-called Act on Weapons, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on Administrative Fees, as amended. This is all under House press 92 and it is like the first reading of the draft agenda of this meeting. As many of you know, the Czech Republic has brought an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union against the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on 17 May 2017. It is specifically an action for annulment of the directive. At the same time as the request to repeal the directive, the Czech Republic also submitted a proposal to defer the effectiveness of the directive, which will normally be decided within a few months. The preliminary measure has not yet been decided by the court, but it is assumed that, given the date on which the action was brought and the request for interim measures - it was submitted on 9 August 2017 - the court could decide in the near future. So, please, let us await the decision of the court on this preliminary measure, so that we do not discuss and approve the amendment to the Arms Act, which implements the transposition of the directive and implements some of the nonsense mentioned therein in vain. I'm sure it's already been said, or it will be said. This government is a government in distrust, this government has no confidence in the Chamber of Deputies, and it may not only come to me, but most of you are completely inappropriate for us to discuss such a fundamental standard these days. I think that - yes, I certainly understand the Minister's saying that he is under some kind of time pressure that his ministry had to do so. Yes, his department has put it forward, but we as the legislature have the right not to do so before it is clear how the European Court of Justice will decide at least on the preliminary measure. So, colleagues, I ask you to remove this point, which is numbered as House press 92, from the agenda of this Chamber of Deputies, and I ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u5	Thank you, Madame. Next, Mr Pavel žáček is signing up with a proposal to amend the agenda. Furthermore, allow me to read the apology of the Prime Minister, who apologizes for attending today's meeting for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u6	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a new item on the agenda, based on current information in the media, the Prime Minister's report on the situation in GIBS. I believe and propose that it be placed as the first point today or as a fixed point. If it wasn't possible today, tomorrow or Friday or next Tuesday. I believe that GIBS is such an important institution in relation to the Police of the Czech Republic that there should be no suspicion that its boss, Mr Murín, is being blackmailed with reference to his future scandalism in the media. I think that today we have - I know that every historical parallel is limping - but that today we have the 70th anniversary of a not-so-remarked communist coup of February 1948, and the fact that this coup was launched by a duel for the head of the National Security Corps, or the police today, I think, is alarming. I assume the Security Committee will deal with the situation in GIBS, as we have already announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u7	My colleague, I'm sorry. You're so fast. Before I wrote that point, I didn't see the dates. I didn't make it. Well, if you could just tell me again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u8	Yes. I propose whether it could be listed as the first point today or as a fixed point. If this were not possible today, I propose tomorrow, Friday's meeting or Tuesday's, and if it would be possible to vote separately on each of these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u9	Is it always the first point after the fixed point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u10	Or for fixed points already.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u11	Okay. Mr Vít Rakušan is next on the proposal to amend the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u12	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I wrote it a little differently on the note. This is a point of the programme which was already proposed by Mr Bartošek. I mean, Mr. Tomio Okamura's dismissal as Vice-President of the House. We have witnessed a conceptual discussion in recent weeks - concentration camp, work camp, internment camp, collection camp. But if we can call something pseudo, it's this discussion. It was a typical pseudodisc because what I want to read to you here, and take ten minutes of your time away, are victims of the concentration collection work camp at Lety. And those victims deserve their names to fall here on the House plenary because the fact that these people died in this camp, that these people died in a camp that was fenced, and there were no holes in that fence, that these people would otherwise have lived, lived a completely different quality of their lives if they hadn't ended up in that camp. Let us not question the suffering of any group of inhabitants! Paffner Antonin Walter Václav Flachs Jaroslav Flachs Marie Winter Ladislav winterový Josefa Janeček Jan Janečková Anna Serynková Maria Wintrová Anna Janeček Josef Wintrová Johana Janečková Anna Čermáková Marie Melk Johana Čermáková Kristýna Serynek František Janeček Karel Serynek Josef Serynková Antonie Janečková Žofie Richter Jan Smurf Edvard Šmídová Marie Šmídová Johana Šmídová Františka Šmídová Johana Růžička Antonín Růžičková Emílie Růžičková Františka Růžena Willow Miroslav vrbový Marie Růžičková Anna Růžičková Františka Švehlová Roses Růžička Josef Růžena kovář Jaroslav Kovářová Anna Kovářová Marie růžičkový anežka Hofinger Jaroslav Hofingrová Barbora malíkový Františka malíkový Marie Růžičková Anna Růžička Josef Karel Růžičková hedvika Růžička Josef Šubrtová Alžběta pflegrový Berta Štěpánek Růžičková Františka Růžičková Marcela Waltrová Věra Růžičková Marie Růžička Josef Gothard rose Růžičková Johana Růžičková Božena Růžička Karel Lagrunová Anna Lagrun Wilhelm Wrba Jan Wrba Antonin Wrbová Leontýna Schulz Antonin Růžičková Karolína Růžičková Josefína Stein Ludvík Steinová Josefína Steinová. Zdeněk Willow Josef Willow Leopold Bohumil Růžička Růžička Jiří Zdeněk Růžičková Anna Růžičková Berta Růžičková Veronika Josef Hermannová Anna Hermannová Ludmila ♪ ryšlavý Anna ♪ Ševčík Oldřich ševčíkový Vlasta Danielová Anna Danielová's Božena Růžička Josef Růžičková Marie Růžičková Jindřiška Růžičková Libuše Markéta Edvard Růžička Růžičková Helena Růžičková Marie Růžena Růžičková Františka Růžička Jan Janeček František janečkový anežka Janečková Anna Janečková Emilie Janečková Jiřina Teofil Růžička Růžičková Anna Růžičková Marie Růžičková Helena Willow Theresa Vrba František Vrbová Miloslava Willow Pavlina Vrbová Zdeněka Serynek Ladislav Serynková Štěpánka Willow Antonin Vrbová Františka Růžička Jan Růžička Josef Růžička Karel Růžičková Marie Růžičková Věra Chadraba Josef Chadrabová anežka Chadrabová Antonie Chadrabová Božena Chadrabová Marie Chadrabová anežka Chadrabová anežka Chadrabová Emílie kloc Jindřich Procházka of František Procházka Zdeněk procházkový Antonie Procházka Antonín Procházka of František procházkový Karolína ♪ procházkový Marie ♪ Horvát Cyril Winter Zdeněk winterový Marie Růžička Antonín Růžička Karel Růžičková Eleanora Růžičková Berta Růžičková Anna Růžičková Božena Františka Růžičková Josefa Růžena Růžička of František Joseph Růžička Jan Růžičková Antonie Leopold Růžička Růžička Robert Růžička Gregor Leopold Růžička Růžičková Antonie Růžičková Milushe Růžička Josef Růžička Václav Růžičková Marie Růžičková Marie Růžena Růžičková Tanks Růžička Jan Růžička Antonín Růžička Ladislav Růžička Robert Růžička Josef Karel Růžičková Philomena Petružilková Antonie Serynek Edvard Serynek Stanislav serynkový Aloisie Oliva ♪ hubený Jan ♪ Cold Antonin The Willow of Vojtěch Vrbová Františka Willow Jan Vrbová Stanislava vrbový Rose Růžičková Alžběta Richtrová Františka Richter František Richtrová Anna Richtrová Anna Chanda Antonin čanda Stanislav Chandova Anna Chandová Františka Chandová Johana Antonie Růžička Jan Růžičková Marie Serynek Stanislav Josef Růžičková Božena Serynková Josefa Serynková Růžena Serynková Štěpánka Serynková Františka Serynková Zdeněk Růžičková Helena Růžičková Ludmila Růžička of František Joseph Čermák Jan Marion Růžička Václav Růžičková Františka Benešová Kristýna Marie Paffner Antonin Paffnerová Marie Petržilka Václav Petržilková Anastázie Petržilková Barbora Petržilková Josefína Petržilková Marie Růžička of František Joseph Alois Růžička Růžičková Eva Růžičková Františka Růžičková hedvika Šubertová Aloisie Emílie Růžička Vilém Růžičková Františka Růžičková hedvika Růžičková Marie Růžičková Helena Růžičková Barbora Růžička Emil Růžičková Božena Růžičková Helena Rudolf Růžička Růžička Zdeněk Růžičková Alžběta Růžičková Božena Jiřina Alois Růžička Růžičková Hermína Růžička Antonín Růžička Antonín Růžička Karel Růžena Šubertová Anna Winter Vincenc Economic Antonie Economic Johana Economic Marie Economic Marie Anna Economical Zdeněk Hospodářské Josef Šafus Josef Janeček Josef Růžička Josef Růžičková Anna Růžena vrbový Božena Serynek Šimon Serynková Štěpánka Hauer Jan Hauer Stanislav Winter Josef Winterová Anna Kloc Bohuslav Kloc Jan Alois klocový's Rozálie Růžičková Božena Růžičková Emílie Růžička of František Joseph Růžičková Anna Šubrt Josef Růžičková Johana Růžičková Magdaléna Růžička of František Joseph Růžička Václav Šubertová Vincencie Růžička of František Joseph Růžičková Božena Františka Růžičková Zdeněk Růžička Jiří Růžička Václav František Růžičková Marie Jirouš Vlastimil Jiroušová Josefína Jiroušová Ludmila Růžička of František Joseph Růžička Karel Růžičková Emílie Růžičková Johana Edvard Růžička Black Jan Růžičková Anna janošovský Marie janošovský Václav Růžičková Anna Růžičková Josefína Růžička of František Joseph Růžičková Anna Růžička Ondřej Růžičková Emílie Anna Růžička Josef Hospodářské Josef Růžička Karel Serynková Věra Serynková Brigita Vojta Bohumil Růžička Maxmilián Růžičková hedvika Aloisie Růžičková Markéta Růžička Lukáš vrbový Marcela Procházka Jaroslav Procházka Vincenc František's Čermák Karel the Čermák Šmíd of Andělín Krylová Johana Růžičková Marie Růžičková Barbora Růžičková Božena Růžičková hedvika Růžena Růžičková Ambrožka winterový Marie Rose Spiridion Janečková Albína Janečková New Year's Eve Winter Stanislav Janečková New Year's Eve Serynková Luciána Růžičková Hylaria Janečková Marcela Serynek Edvard ryšlavý-headed Jan Růžička Emil Janeček Hypolit Růžička Antonín Růžička Antonín Rudolf Růžička růžičkový Aloisie Helena Růžičková Bohumila Růžičková Emílie Růžičková Františka Růžičková Vlasta Josef 337 victims, not pseudo-victims, 337 grounds for the appeal of Vice-President of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Apologies for part of today's meeting are requested by Mr Farský because of the elections in the electoral region. He also apologizes for today's meeting for family reasons, Mr Jiří Mihola, from 14:00 to the end of the day. We've run out of written applications to change the show. I'm asking if anyone else has any other suggestions. President Bartošek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor. I will complete my proposal to clarify the programme. In the event that this will be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, I propose that it be placed as the first item in today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in adding a new item, removing it, changing the show. It's not like that. If this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote on the individual proposals in the order in which they were submitted. First, proposals from the Gremium. I ask if there is any objection to dealing with one vote with the proposals from the Gremium. I don't see anyone objecting to this procedure. I'll do it again. Fixedly include the following points: on Wednesday, 28 February, item number 7, first item of the meeting, at 14.30 pm, points 2, 9 and 8, on Friday, 2 March, points 55 and 18, on Wednesday, 7 March, at 14.30 pm, points 5 and 6. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? This is the vote number 2, 170 Members registered, for 143, against no one. This proposal was adopted. [[14.30 hours]] We will now vote on further proposals. First, we will vote on the inclusion of a new item, which is the removal of Tomio Okamura from the post of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. This is Mr Bartošek's proposal, along with Vice-President Rakušan. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of putting a new item on the agenda. Who's against it? Voting number three. It's registered 169, for 70, against 70. This proposal was not adopted. That is why President Bartošek's proposal becomes unvoting so that this item is placed as the first item in today's negotiations. We will also vote on Mrs Černochová's proposal, which proposes to exclude item 33, House press 92, first reading, amendment to the arms law. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number four. 172 Members are registered, for 167, against no one. This proposal was adopted and item 33 was excluded from the agenda. We will now have more votes on this proposal. Mr Žáček proposes the inclusion of a new point, which is the Prime Minister's report on the situation in the General Inspection of the Security Corps. First, we will vote at all on the inclusion of this item on the agenda. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for this point. Who's against it? Voting number five. 172 Members are registered, for 65, against 68. This proposal was not adopted. So, in the end, it won't be such a difficult vote, because other solid inclusion proposals are no longer voteable. I'm registering an application for a check-out, which I will of course grant, and I'll ask you all to rejoin with your I.D. cards. And since... Do I have any complaints here? [[Short silence.]] Therefore, according to my records, we have dealt with all the amendments, and we have a vote on the entire proposal for the 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as it has been tabled and as amended by the amendments adopted. I'm opening the vote. Who is the 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for this programme? Who's against it? This is vote number 6. Registered 163, for 109, versus 37. This proposal was adopted. I can therefore say that the agenda of the meeting has been approved, and thank you all. With priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Birke. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u16	Thank you. I will not question the vote, but in the fifth vote, I would like to say that I voted for the point, not... I have "stayed" at the junk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u17	I thank you and with priority rights, President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u18	Thank you. I'll get back to the agenda and the point I tried to put on the agenda. Once again, I thank all the Members who have attached their signature to this point. It is important to realise that the atmosphere in society is changing, just as it is in the Chamber of Deputies, and there are conceivable things that, until recently, we thought we would never return to them. It should be noted that by not allowing this point to be included, you did not allow Vice-President Okamur to explain or apologize. It must be said that the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies represents the Czech Republic in such a high constitutional capacity, and I have not heard anywhere that this party distanced itself from the statements of its former secretary that žid, Cikán and homosexuals belong in the gas. It should be noted that Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies represents the Czech Republic in international negotiations. By voting against this point or abstaining, you have clearly admitted to this behaviour, as well as to questioning the suffering of people in the concentration camp in Lety, whether you call it work or otherwise. For me, personally, it is a disparagement of the sufferings of people who died in the Holocaust, of millions of people, when you officially deny the suffering of people during the Second World War during the Holocaust. You have exchanged a dedicated link, dear members of the ANO movement, who have not signed your signature, with the Communist Party and with the extremist party in February, when we remember what happened 70 years ago. In many ways, you behave in the same way as those communists and contribute to the destruction of political culture in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-000-000.u19	And now I'm opening point number
