ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-003-179.u1	179. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations I note that the House of Press 268 insists that the reason for the suspension of negotiations is that we will not discuss an interpellation with the Prime Minister, but the obstacle for which the negotiations on the Houses of the Press 285 have been interrupted has passed and we can therefore return to this point under the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This is an interview by Mr Vojtěch Munzar on the procedure of the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic in securing information from the newlywed couple at the wedding reception. Interpelation, together with the reply, presents 285 as the House's press. The hearing has been adjourned. Madam Secretary is present, I am opening up a debate. This is my colleague Munzar. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-003-179.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I am glad that, despite the tough efforts of the members of the ANO movement last time they tried to block the interruption of the point to the presence of the Minister, and after the games today, we came to discuss this interpelation of mine. Thank you. I might start out untraditionally, with one statement. The nature of state power is its expansion, and the task of democratic politics is to restrain, restrain, and hold back, so that it does not feel all-powerful and untouchable. An uncritical approach, an attempt to defend the indefensible, backpacking, it's a breeding ground for stretching. And such a case is what I asked - a challenge to newlywed couples, under the threat of a fine and as obliged persons to communicate private information about their wedding reception, the Financial Administration. After receiving a reply to my written interview, it turned out that these were not isolated cases, but a massive carpet raid on the newlyweds in Přerovsk. Maybe this is where they belong. I'm sure they're very grateful to the media for their work. However, to the substance of the matter and to the substance of my interpelation. The local office of the Financial Office for the Olomouc Region in Přerov sent a call to the newlywed couples to provide a comprehensive series of data and documents relating to their wedding reception. At the same time, the Financial Administration referred in particular to § 57 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) the tax rules. This was especially personal information: where the reception took place, where the wedding guests were accommodated on the day of the wedding or how many guests were at the wedding reception, etc. In the lesson, in the call, they were then told that they could not appeal against the obligation to fulfil the call, and at the same time they were told the lesson about the fine. In writing, I asked the Minister if I could simplify it, whether he considered it a legal procedure and why and whether he considered it right from a human point of view and what corrective measures were taken. To my surprise, I got the answer when I simplify it again, that it was no excess, as I thought, but that it was a legal procedure for the Financial Administration and that the Minister only asked the Financial Administration to proceed more sensitively in serious cases. What are these serious cases, I didn't find out. You have my questions and your written answer in your papers, colleagues and colleagues, and I really must say that I am very surprised by the answer. I was hoping that the answer would be that it was an isolated fad that would be investigated and not repeated. I was hoping for nothing. This example is proof that the Financial Administration has fallen out of control. We have seen this on the increase in hedging orders, insanity deadlines for companies to express them, and now on this very example of personal questions to married couples. Appropriateness seems to be an unknown word for the government, for the Financial Administration. Instead of the Ministry of Finance starting to fulfil its role and giving the Financial Administration certain constraints as a central government body, we can see that it is taking all the steps of the Financial Administration uncritically. He often defends them or debathes them. And this uncritical approach means legitimizing that the Financial Administration has taken advantage of its powers and extraordinary instruments, regardless of the consequences. That's why we see such an increase in warranty orders, which is why we see de facto in the live transmission of the liquidation of many companies, we see so many lost disputes by the state, we see thousand-coron fines for an unregistered box of Tic Tac or a pair of socks. In particular, we see an increase - the right word - in zealous officials who do not hesitate to send 95 newlywed couples a call for personal information, including those who had a feast at home. And the increase in zealous workers makes it possible that the political signals from the administration of the Ministry of Finance are long-term clear: the pursuit of tax collection at all costs, even disproportionately. Adequateness is how the government should act, and unfortunately it does not. One of the additional questions, Madam Secretary: do you consider it appropriate to send the call to 95 married couples if they did not happen to have a wedding at a facility that was suspected of not admitting sales as mandatory persons? I do not deny that tax evasion should be combated, but the question is whether the purpose, though godly, justifies the means at all costs. Because where's the border when this hunt for the modern-day mantra stops? Send 95 married couples with personal questions around some restaurant or facility, although suspicious, it is disgusting. But it seems the order was clear. Because, to be fair, over the last few days, Mr. Janeček, the director of the Financial Administration has begun to speculate. Today there was even a report that he himself filed a request for termination of his engagement at the head of the Financial Administration, I believe, on December 27th, or so I saw it somehow, Madam Secretary will surely supplement me. But consider, ladies and gentlemen, what had to happen, what had to happen before this step was taken. Overuse of warranty orders didn't hit him in any way. Other things he didn't get caught up in a state-lost feud. Even, Madam Secretary, and your answer, the first, written one we are discussing today, has tried to defend the steps of the Financial Administration. It was only after the media pressure had increased that the director Janeček was leaving. This information about the number of couples should have been worked on long ago. After all, the first step, when you received my written interview, was to investigate this matter, not to expect everything to be done in the media, and to take immediate corrective action. [[10.40 hours]] That is why I also asked what specific steps you would take to prevent this from happening again. And you want an example of backpacking? October 9th, the Financial Administration released a press release on this case, which I dare quote, part of it. "The aim of the event was to eliminate this activity with the help of asking citizens to provide relevant information with this..." [[He's flipping through the materials.]] Now I'm sorry... "that if they hadn't supplied the information, they wouldn't have been in danger of being fined." The call in the press release is called a request, and they would be in no danger, even though the newlyweds were given this challenge with the lesson of a fine. And how were those poor newlyweds supposed to know that when they got this challenge, it was just a request that it wasn't a challenge, what's in the title of the document that they weren't in danger of being fined when they learned the lesson about the fine? How would they know? According to the reply, the Minister had a legal analysis submitted by the Financial Administration confirming the legality of the procedure. At least that's how you answered me, Madam Secretary. Accordingly, the interpretation that, according to § 57, newlyweds are obliged persons who obtain other information necessary for the administration of taxes. That's what the section sounds like. But this interpretation is very controversial and debatable. If we accepted him this uncritically, it would mean that any of us, anyone who organized a graduation party in this country, a graduation party, a birthday party, a bachelor party, a wake-up party, a wake-up party, etc., would be a mandatory person. Imagine a high school alumni reunion after 50 years. Grandmothers and grandpas at the age of 70. They will meet at the restaurant, the IRS will suspect that the restaurant will not admit sales at EET, and because the participants of the meeting ordered a service realized by the entrepreneur, it means that the IRS can contact the meeting participants and ask them for personal information. I want to ask: do you agree, Madam Secretary, with the interpretation of paragraph 57? You're gonna confirm that anyone who organizes a restaurant party is a mandatory person? This is indeed a very extensive interpretation to the detriment of our citizens. This is opposed to the second opinion of the professional public, which I personally refer to, according to which such an interpretation does not correspond absolutely to the concept of the entire establishment of paragraph 57 of the Tax Code. This provision provides for an exhaustive definition of the scope of the entities from which the tax administrator has the right to request the data in question. So legality is debatable. This is confirmed by a respected comment prepared by Dr. Baxa and the Association of Authors. [[Secretary Schiller speaks off the microphone.]] And the secretary is even a co-author. Which says that, contrary to the current regulation - it has responded to changes - the scope of mandatory persons and the scope of the mandatory information is reduced. And right to that point-- letter. (d). However, persons who obtain other data may be necessary for tax administration, for example. persons registering data on accommodated persons, registering technical examination of cars, etc. It is clear, therefore, that the legislator's intention could not have been that obligation for all who came into contact with businessmen, as your answer was de facto. And I was surprised to hear your answer because you co-authored this comment. If the legislature wanted it to apply to everyone, the paragraph would sound different. Probably in the following way: Anyone who has information or the like, as it is necessary for a witness statement in paragraph 96 of the Tax Code. According to the experts I consulted, it is necessary to interpret the provision in such a way that it is the persons to whom the obligation to obtain other information necessary for the administration of taxes is laid down by law and is part of their activities. It is obvious that newlyweds do not receive any information from the owner of the restaurant during the wedding reception and do not require it. According to tax experts, the Financial Administration could make the most of the testimony, within which the rights of both tax entities and witnesses are guaranteed. So I'm wondering if you've moved your opinion on this matter, Madam Secretary. Whether you consider it appropriate. What concrete steps are you going to take to make sure that this doesn't happen again. Whether you insist on legal procedure. And whether you consider personal questions relevant in tax proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-003-179.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vojtěch Munzar. Madam Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová has the floor. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-003-179.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, just for the morning introduction. There's no way I was avoiding the interpellation. I had some serious personal reasons that I had to go home for, and I came back. So there was no avoidance at all. Of course, I'm ready to respond to your interpellation, which I believe I can do now. So allow me to respond to your intervention, which you have now summarised here, of 25 October 2018, which follows our previous written communication on the issue of the Institute's call for information under paragraph 57 of the Tax Code and its application practice. That'll be the important thing we're gonna be talking about right now. I'm glad you quoted a comment, because I'm not gonna talk to any prepared background just as dry. I will speak with the knowledge of a person who worked in the Financial Administration for 25 years and who specialized - thank you for quoting the commentary on the tax code - which specialized in the tax process. It's an introduction. My position under the law of competence, and I believe you know it well when you've dealt with this intercession, it's still the same. Once I'm encouraged to run the Financial Administration, it's demonized my role that I'm ordering her to carry out some activities. The second time I'm being held accountable, like today, is that I'm not doing enough, that I should drive it more, and I should just keep an eye on her trials. No. I'm still acting the same way! I've spent my whole life serving this country in public service and still following the laws of competence and other related. That means I can't move a step, whether I'm being attacked one way or another. So according to the law. That means, and now I am following up on your intervention, it is not my place to judge in this way that you call me to, the legality of the conduct of individual tax administrators. I just can't out of my position, and I couldn't even do that from the Deputy Minister of Finance when this position was demonized again, I can't intervene in individual proceedings, and that's a good thing! Politicians must not interfere with the management of tax authorities. No way! To that end, I would only be called up for the following essential legal reasons: the handling of remedies or supervisory funds at the level of the Ministry of Finance, I would point out, because this is, moreover, not closest to the superior body in relation to the financial authority. That means he doesn't deal with any appeals or complaints. Financial Administration bodies are clearly structured in the competence law, that is, in the Financial Administration Act. The Ministry of Finance is in the role of a possible assessor of remedies or supervisory funds, provided that the General Financial Directorate has decided at the last stage. So that's the only one I can enter from position to particular file. [[10.50 hours]] As a general rule, each administrator has the task of continuously establishing the prerequisites for the creation or duration of the obligations of persons involved in the administration of taxes, to do the necessary acts. This follows from the basic principles of tax administration, which are enshrined in the law, in the tax rules. You will find it especially in section 9 para. 2 Tax Codes. Thus, the tax administrator cannot, and now I speak in general, not with the knowledge of the particular file, that means that the tax administrator cannot, in implementing this principle, resign in advance to control certain sectors. That is, just because they may be engaged in activities that are more sensitive to the public, as you set an example of wedding receptions or you quoted some sort of abiturient party, if I remember correctly. So I hope that we can all agree, at this point, on a general level, that they must assess the tax administrator, proceed in accordance with the principle of equality, and therefore all laws must apply equally to everyone. The basic obligations of tax administrators are enshrined in the basic principles of tax administration, which are contained in the tax system, including search and control activities. This is part of the fundamental principles. And its targeting from the nature of the matter cannot be complex. This means that it has to be preceded by some analytical activity, a background check, and that's just how it works in practice. It is not human to check the fulfilment of each tax obligation. So without the search activity, without the analytical activity, the control activity that follows would be useless. This means that the tax administrator thus focuses primarily on those cases where there are certain suspicions or incentives from the persons concerned that there is a breach of tax legislation. And now we get to the first part that was the subject of your first interpellation in September. That was the one challenge I was informed about in the media as well as you. In my opinion, this was also the case in the case of the election of the entities targeted by the Financial Office for the Olomouc Region. So in the first phase that you were quoting right now, it was based on incentives from specific persons who pointed out the unfair practices of some wedding reception organisers. That's the general information I can get for you. More information, I can't request a file. I'll never do it. I'll never break the law. This means that the tax administrator first draws information from its own resources and activities, such as data reported from sales records, data from tax returns and reports, publicly available information, local investigations or data from registers and records to which it has access. That's the analytical work I was talking about. On this basis, it identifies tax entities suspected of failing to comply with tax obligations so that the next phase of the search activity can be targeted directly. Of course, it also uses communication with other persons who may be institutions of the type of bank, specific natural or legal persons for whom this communication constitutes a certain time and administrative burden. The communication itself - and now I am actually getting to the communication with the wedding guests - with the aforementioned entities, which the law collectively refers to third parties, that is, there has been some process with a particular subject and those wedding guests have been in the position of third parties, should respect the principle of proportionality. Which applies not only in the field of tax law, but the tax administrator cannot require this information from these entities without the mentioned initial stage of the search activity. That means he must have a clue that something really happened. That means he can't afford to make an imaginary carpet raid that you talked about, sort of preventatively, to see if everything was in line with the tax regulations. This means, of course, this would be contrary and would be disproportionate and would be contrary to the basic principles of tax administration, as I quoted them in the tax system. This means that it should always be based on a specific basis, on the current search activity, which narrows the set of third parties to the minimum necessary. This does not mean, however, that only those who have real information may be contacted in this way. This means, of the nature of the matter, the tax administrator must have a search activity, there must be indications in the file why he will proceed to one or the other step. Now, what are his options? He basically has a choice of two basic options when communicating with third parties. The first is the submission of an explanation under paragraph 79 of the Tax Code, which can be characterised as some preliminary testimony. You were also talking about it, you mentioned, if I recall correctly, this example in your speech. But it is usually of an oral nature. This submission of an explanation. This means, then, that if it is to be repeated in the course of the evidence procedure in order to prove the relevance of the evidence and its applicability as evidence within the entire evidence complex and, if necessary, the control activity, this must be repeated as an official testimony. This is clearly stated by the law and, of course, it also follows from the absolutely constant old case law of the Supreme Administrative Court. A person who gives an explanation, possibly a witness statement, is legally obliged, except for some exceptions, but they do not concern this case, to give a truthful statement, otherwise the risk of a penalty for false or incomplete testimony is exposed. So that's one way. I don't know if this way is more gentle. The second is the institute of a call for information pursuant to Section 57 of the Tax Code of that call, which you have quoted here, Mr Member, and it represents a written way of communication. The third party addressed shall have an obligation to respond within a specified time limit. The tax administrator should, under the law, enforce any non-compliance with a reasonable order penalty, resulting from the law, according to the degree of social harm of such conduct. I'm quoting that to you now by legal regulation. If a third party does not have the information requested, e.g. because it does not recall the fact at a distance, a response in this spirit, for example, is sufficient. For both institutes, both the submission of a witness statement and the answer to this call, it is common that the tax administrator must instruct this third party about the consequences of the duty to testify, respond to the call, maintain confidentiality, etc. I understand, I fully understand. I've been meeting these reactions all my professional life, that the austere lesson, the communication of the language of the law on most people is cold, distant, and many of the addressees may be concerned by the mention of the upper limit of the penalty. It is a necessary requirement corresponding to the constitutional right to a fair trial and, as such, is prescribed by law. If I can judge according to my long-term experience of tax practice, in application practice, a call for information is generally considered less burdensome than an explanation and a subsequent testimony, which means asking the third party to come forward to give a statement, etc. I think that this is much more burdensome, plus the person who is addressed in this written form, so he has time to think about his answer properly and is not forced to waste time visiting the office. The very formulation of similar challenges is a place where I clearly see room for improvement, not only in relation to the challenges set by the wedding people. While the calls are formal decisions, the tax rules say that the call has the character of the decision and, as such, it must contain certain formal elements, such as the instruction given by me, but I can still see the scope for a more kind tone by which individual requirements could be formulated, as well as for a clearer lesson about the procedural situation in question. At the beginning of my speech, I pointed out that the tax administrator cannot resign from the control of tax entities carrying out their activities in different sectors, e.g. in those that are perceived as being more sensitive. However, the specificity of these sectors may be taken into account when communicating with the persons concerned themselves and choose a more friendly tone than the normal standard of official correspondence. I believe that a more sensitive and targeted approach to the persons concerned can ultimately be achieved by far better results and by mutual cooperation. [[11.00 hours]] If you, honourable Member, are interested in what specific measures I have taken on this matter, I would not surprise you if I told you that I encouraged Mr. CEO Janeček to investigate the matter in detail. Now I'm talking about the next part, the 95 challenges I read about in the media as much as you do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-003-179.u5	Madam Secretary, I have to interrupt you because the legal deadline has expired, and I will also have to interrupt the discussion of the reply to the written interview for press 285, which will be left to us on 15 November, if it is the day of the hearing, Thursday morning, because it is the interpelation that has not been completed, as well as the previous press, the interpellation to the Prime Minister. I'm interrupting point 179 and we're going back to the points, and that's point 89. The Minister remains at the rapporteur's table, I will ask Mr Kubík to take his place at the rapporteur's table. We will return to the negotiations on international treaties. I've got my colleague Stanjura's application here, but it's about this thing, so it's out of date now. So we're going back to the point.
