ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-017-041.u1	41. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Australia, on the other hand /German press 75/ - First reading The submitted proposal will be presented by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Martin Stropnický. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-017-041.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you for discussion the Government's proposal for a Framework Agreement between the EU and its Member States, on the one hand, and Australia, on the other. The European Union and Australia combines the sharing of common values of democracy, the promotion of human rights and freedoms, the preservation of international peace and stability and efforts to liberalise the world economy. Australia is also important to the EU because of its geopolitical position. It is an important ally in the dynamically developing Asia-Pacific region. We're doing business together, too. The EU is the second trading partner for Australia after China. A lasting feature of trade relations is the long-term balance sheet surplus in favour of the EU. In addition, the Czech Republic has a long-term active trade balance with Australia. Given the strong trade and the expansion of political and security cooperation, the EU and Australia have concluded that a high-quality legal framework, preferably a broad bilateral political agreement, needs to be given to relations. This is therefore not a free trade agreement, the so-called free trade area. She'll start negotiating with Australia around the middle of this year. The present agreement is a so-called mixed agreement, where some points will be in the competence of the EU and others within the competence of the Member States. The Government of the Czech Republic has already agreed to the agreement by its resolution number 845 of 21. 9. 2016. The Agreement was subsequently signed in Manila on 7 August 2017. The position of the Czech Republic to negotiate the agreement was positive from the beginning. The objectives of the agreement are consistent with our priorities. Australia is an important ally and business partner of the Czech Republic. This was confirmed by my recent meeting with Australian Foreign Minister Julia Bishopová a few weeks ago in Budapest. The main topics of mutual cooperation are: foreign and security policy, the fight against terrorism, the application of international law in cyberspace, global development and humanitarian aid, economic cooperation and trade, justice, human rights and security, research, innovation and information society, education and culture, sustainable development, energy and transport. The enhanced political dialogue is intended primarily to take place through consultations and visits by the leaders of both units, particularly at the level of foreign ministers, but contacts between the Australian Parliament and the European Parliament are also to be extended. The content of the agreement is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic, with the obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union, with the obligations assumed under its applicable treaties and with the generally binding principles of international law. The ratified agreement will be announced in the Collection of International Treaties. This will become part of the legal order of the Czech Republic in accordance with Article 10 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The subsequent implementation of the Agreement is not expected to entail financial or budgetary implications. The agreement will not have an impact on gender equality or on environmental issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-017-041.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Mikuláš Peksa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-017-041.u4	Good afternoon. I have to thank the Minister, because he's basically summed it all up, so there's just some sort of recap. This is indeed a framework agreement. That means there are some general provisions. It does not create any complex regulatory cooperation such as TTIP or CETA. This is a mixed treaty, which means a treaty that the European Union negotiates with the Member States. The Union shall not have exclusive competence to negotiate the entire content of the Agreement, since the areas which fall wholly or partly within the competence of the Member States are also the subject of cooperation. This means that, in view of the division of competences between the European Union and the Member States, the Union will be able to carry out only part of the obligations arising from the agreement separately, while in the rest it will need the synergies of its Member States, i.e. the Czech Republic. And so it would be worth it to approve the agreement. I guess that's it for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-21-ps2017-007-08-017-041.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening a general debate. I'll see if anyone's signed up for the general debate. I don't see anyone. So I'm ending the general debate. I'm asking Mr. Foreign Minister Martin Stropnickýý if he's interested? [[I don't.]] And the rapporteur? [[I don't.]] The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. Okay. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. [[16.40 hours]] The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. I wonder if anyone else has a suggestion. I don't see another suggestion. So I'm gonna reengage because we're gonna vote. I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. Initiating vote. Now, please press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, raise your hand and press the button. In the vote number 138, 144 Members and Members voted in favour of 124, against zero. The motion was accepted. So I'm saying that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee, and this concludes the discussion of this point. The next item in our meeting of the Chamber of Deputies today is:
